DRN-3561605
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around June 2016, Mr S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr S decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a three year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In December 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would pay for itself within the term of the loan;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments from the start;
no account had been taken of the fact that the system would deteriorate over time; 
and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,000).
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
In March 2021 the CMC referred this complaint to our service. As well as the points it had 
already raised with Shawbrook, it added that the system is underperforming, in terms of 
energy generation, by 20%.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the system would take 17 years to pay for itself, when the cost of the loan is taken 
into account; and
the system would not pay for its cash price within the term of the loan.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr S says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr Ss testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr S, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Ss version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mr S has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Ss recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr S could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr S could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £234.66, which results in an average monthly income of less than £20. 
Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment 
due of £271.53. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr S was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr S could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £324.39 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr S, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £688.80. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with a table which shows the loan as repayable in 
36 monthly payments of £271.53. Just three of these payments would clearly exceed the 
total income and savings for year 1.
For each year of the three year loan, the table shows the expected grand total return from 
the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan 
repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and 
the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for every year of the 
loan, meaning that the system would never make enough money to cover the loan 
payments.
I think the quote very clearly sets out the income Mr S could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr S wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Mr Ss version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph, which plainly showed that the system would not be 
enough to cover the loan payments. The orange line shows the monthly loan repayments, 
and the green line shows the average monthly income and savings generated by the 
system.
Self-funding and system deterioration
Ill now consider whether P told Mr S that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. That section of the quote has been 
signed by Mr S, so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im 
also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr S was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large print that it would take 11 years for the 
overall benefits that Mr S could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the 11-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
30 years. This also shows that during year 11 the overall benefits that Mr S could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £9,875.
 
This table also shows, in the first column (which is titled Panel degradation), how the 
panels will reduce in efficiency year on year. This is shown as a percentage which reduces 
each year, ending in year 30 at 89.2%.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr S that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 11 years, as supported by the graphic and the table above, which were included in 
the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what 
induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could 
amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 17 or 18 years for the system to pay 
for itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in 
line with the contract between P and Mr S.
Performance: energy generation
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 3,450 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Ss FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,017 kWh a year. This is significantly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale (87%), so I agree that the system is not performing as well as expected.
However, I do not know if that is because the system was misrepresented at the point of 
sale, or if it is because the system was defective at the point of sale (which would be a 
breach of contract), or if it is because the system subsequently developed a fault (which 
would not necessarily be Shawbrooks responsibility).
This issue was not raised with Shawbrook in the claim under section 75 in 2020, and so I do 
not think that Shawbrook can be faulted for not having upheld that claim on this basis. 
Shawbrook was only dealing with a complaint that Mr S was told that the system was 
supposed to be self-funding from the start, when it wasnt. And Shawbrooks answer was 
that the quote had made it clear all along that this was not the case. Shawbrook didnt have 
to go further than that and investigate whether the system was generating as much energy 
as P had estimated.
So I think that the under-performance issue needs to be raised with Shawbrook in a new 
section 75 claim. That will enable Shawbrook to investigate the reason for the under-
performance. Then, if Mr S is still not satisfied, he may bring a new complaint to our service 
about Shawbrooks response. I am not in a position to deal with that issue now, except to 
say that Shawbrook did not mishandle Mr Ss claim under section 75.
Performance: financial returns
However, I do think that Mr Ss original section 75 claim did include a complaint to the effect 
that he was not seeing the financial returns he had been told he could expect from the 
system, and that the system had therefore been misrepresented to him on that basis. So 
I have considered whether the estimated financial returns were exaggerated, independently 
of the systems failure to generate as much energy as estimated.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr S hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr S could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr S entered into the contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr S that the system would require 
no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the salesman did 
not tell him during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, but that is not the 
same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.I leave it to Mr S to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman