DRN-4279878
The complaint
Mr T complains that Curve UK Limited blocked two attempted contactless payments.
What happened
Mr T says he attempted two contactless payments on 8 April 2023, but both were blocked. 
He says Curve told him he had reached his contactless limit but that was incorrect. He says 
Curves systems have logged false information and would like an apology as well as 
compensation.
Curve says it told Mr T why it declined the transactions, due to having a contactless limit of 
£300 in total. It says Mr Ts contactless limit was re-set on 6 April 2023 and he then made 
contactless payments over £300 which led to the two attempt payments being blocked. It 
also says the use of the PIN and card would have re-set the contactless limit.
Mr T brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator didnt think there any evidence of a mistake and thought the transactions were in 
excess of £300.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and maintains the transactions were under £300 and wasnt 
given the option of using his card and PIN.
The investigator re-considered his view and came to the same overall conclusion that the 
transactions were in excess of £300 and that it possible the payment device didnt offer Mr T 
the use of the card and PIN which was not something Curve was responsible for.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and says there is no evidence the card machine wasnt 
working correctly as he did use a different card on that same card machine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that its up to Curve to decide what its contactless limits are and that it had 
clearly told Mr T that information. I have looked carefully at the transaction list Mr T and 
Curve have provided and Im satisfied its clear that Mr T had made transactions in excess of 
£300. I can see those transactions were about £317 and I dont think it clear why Mr T 
maintains they were under £300. So, I dont think Curve made a mistake in those 
circumstances by blocking Mr Ts attempted transactions by contactless. And I think it more 
likely than not that if he attempted a subsequent payment by using the card and PIN rather 
than contactless, on balance the transactions would have been approved.
I have looked carefully at the online message exchange between Mr T and Curve, and I am 
satisfied Curve fairly explained the position to Mr T. I can see Mr T says he wasnt near his 
card limit, but I have made clear that he had exceeded the £300 contactless limit. I also cant 
see any mention by Mr T in that exchange about being asked or not to use his card and PIN. 
I accept that it is possible the card machine simply declined Mr Ts attempt to use the 
account card by contactless and didnt offer the use of PIN and card. That is not something I 
can fairly hold Curve responsible for.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr Ts main complaint to us, and to Curve was that it had blocked his 
attempted payments due to him reaching the contactless limit which was incorrect. I have 
made clear that Mr T had reached and exceeded the contactless limit and so Curve was 
entitled to block the attempted payments. It follows that I cant fairly order Curve to apologise 
for what took place or pay compensation. I also find Curve explained the position to Mr T 
when he contacted it. I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute 
informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman