DRN-3787097
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) to 
transfer the benefits from his deferred defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to 
a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused 
a financial loss.
What happened
Mr W approached Quilter in March 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr W 
was introduced to Quilter by another advice firm.
Quilter completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives. In summary it recorded that Mr W was 59 years old, hed recently lost his partner, 
he rented his home and he had unsecured debts of around £40,000, which he was seeking 
to repay because his monthly expenditure was greater than his income. Quilter also carried 
out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it deemed to be Moderate. 
On 8 May 2018, Quilter advised Mr W to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in a multi-manager investment portfolio, which it deemed 
matched Mr Ws attitude to risk. In summary the suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were:
To provide a cash lump sum to enable Mr W to pay off his debts in full, create a 
contingency savings fund, make some future home improvements and go on holiday.
To enable Mr W to increase his contributions to his workplace pension scheme from 
his surplus income and provide an overall pension pot, which together with his state 
pension would likely provide him with the £17,000 income he said he needed in 
retirement.
To provide lump sum death benefits for his children.
Mr W accepted the recommendation and around £219,000 was transferred to his personal 
pension from which Mr W took his tax-free cash and the remainder was invested as 
recommended.
In 2021 Mr W complained to Quilter, via a representative about the suitability of the transfer 
advice.
Quilter didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. In summary it said the recommendation was suitable 
because it met Mr Ws objectives at the time  it allowed him to address his financial 
situation and repay his outstanding debts, it allowed him to maximise his future pension 
contributions and provide a legacy for his family. It said Mr Ws DB scheme did offer a tax-
free cash lump sum, but it didnt allow him to defer his pension income which wasnt needed 
at the time. Mr W might have to pay high-rate tax on the funds while he continued to work. 
Because Mr Ws income from the scheme wouldve been significantly reduced by taking 
early retirement from the scheme, it said there wouldve been an income shortfall throughout 
Mr Ws retirement. It said it explained the risks involved including the guarantees Mr W 
would be giving up to enable Mr W to make an informed decision.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr W referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required Quilter to pay compensation. In summary they said the 
transfer wasnt financially viable due to the growth rate required to match Mr Ws scheme 
benefits, Mr Ws medium attitude to risk and his capacity for loss. They said the adviser 
acknowledged the critical yield wasnt achievable but went on to recommend the transfer for 
other reasons  but they didnt think those reasons were in Mr Ws best interests. They said 
that while Mr W needed to repay his debts, they thought Mr W couldve achieved his 
objective by taking his benefits from his DB scheme  it wouldve provided a sufficient lump 
sum to clear his debts and while he didnt need the income while he was still working, he 
couldve saved this towards providing for his future retirement. They said Mr Ws future 
income needs also couldve been met by remaining in the DB scheme  he had his state 
pension and other pension provision to supplement it. 
Quilter disagreed. In summary it questioned the usefulness of reference to the critical yield in 
this case as a primary reason for why the advice was unsuitable. Overall it said there were 
several ways for Mr W to meet his objectives, all of which contained elements of risk. It said 
the advice considered all of the options, which resulted in a recommendation for a 
sustainable solution which would meet Mr Ws needs and potentially provide more options 
than committing to taking his scheme benefits immediately. It believes it provided a balanced 
suitability report, which explained the advantages and disadvantages of each option to allow 
Mr W to make an informed decision. Mr W was also accompanied during the meetings by 
someone who possessed considerable knowledge and experience, so its satisfied Mr W 
understood the advice he was given.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Quilter 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ws best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr W was 59 at the time of the advice and while he indicated that he enjoyed his work, and 
intended to continue beyond his state retirement age if he was allowed, his DB scheme 
normal retirement age was 65. The critical yield, or growth rate required to match Mr Ws 
benefits at age 65 if he transferred his benefits to a personal pension arrangement was 
16.13% if he took a full pension and 14.35% if he took a tax-free cash lump sum and a 
reduced pension. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.1% per year for five years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ws 
documented Moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Here, given the 
lowest critical yield was 14.35%, I think Mr W was likely to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of transferring out to a 
personal pension arrangement and investing in line with that attitude to risk. The return 
needed was far in excess of both the regulators middle and upper projection rate and it was 
several times higher than the discount rate.
So based solely on this reason, it doesnt appear the transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
Mr Ws best interests.
But Im mindful that in this case, the primary reason for the recommendation was to enable 
Mr W to raise a cash lump sum to repay his debts  it wasnt primarily about Mr W being 
able to improve on his DB scheme benefits. And Quilter acknowledged in its suitability letter 
that the critical yield wasnt achievable. So while ordinarily there would be little point in a 
consumer giving up the guarantees available to them through their DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme, I accept its possible in 
Mr Ws case there were other considerations which mean a transfer was suitable, despite providing lower overall benefits  as Quilter referred to in its suitability report. Ive considered 
this below.
Flexibility and access to tax-free cash
It is not disputed that Mr Ws main objective and the primary reason he sought advice from 
Quilter was because he was looking to repay his debts.
Mr Ws circumstances were well documented in the advice paperwork, which included that 
he was struggling to continue to service his unsecured loan and credit card debts due to 
recent unfortunate personal circumstances, which had affected his financial position. Mr Ws 
outstanding unsecured debt totalled around £40,000, which was costing him over £1,000 in 
monthly repayments. And this meant that his total monthly expenditure exceeded his income 
by more around £160. The advice paperwork records that this was financially crippling for 
Mr W and was causing him concern. 
It's therefore clear to me that Mr Ws objective of wanting to clear his debts was reasonable 
in the circumstances and in my view it was somewhat pressing. If Mr W continued as he 
was, his financial position was only going to worsen. Because Mr W didnt have any savings 
or other assets he couldve used to meet his objective, I think Mr W had an immediate need 
to access a lump sum.
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr Ws objective couldve reasonably been met by other 
ways, rather than transferring his DB scheme benefits, which I can see the advice paperwork 
records Quilter considered at the time. 
The first of these options was for Mr W to borrow the money. But I can see the advice 
paperwork records that Mr W had already been turned down for a loan by his bank because 
he didnt have any assets that the bank could secure the lending on. It doesnt surprise me 
that Mr Ws bank wanted some form of security given the amount of the loan and I think 
another lender would likely insist on the same. So Im satisfied this wasnt a viable option.
I can see that Mr W has told us he wouldve considered entering into an Individual Voluntary 
Agreement (IVA). But I think this was considered and discounted at the time. I can see the 
advice paperwork records that Mr W had sought advice from a debt councillor and 
discounted it for several reasons. And these reasons were also recorded in the advice 
paperwork from the time.
The third option was whether Mr W couldve stayed in his DB scheme and taken early 
retirement. This wouldve allowed Mr W to gain access to a lump sum as well as an income. 
And I can see this too was considered by Quilter at the time. But while Quilter discounted it 
and recommended Mr W transfer his DB benefits to a personal arrangement instead to meet 
his objective, I think it was in Mr Ws best interests to remain in the DB scheme and access 
his benefits immediately by taking early retirement to meet his objective. And I say this for 
the following reasons.
Mr Ws early retirement quote from his DB scheme showed that he could take a tax-free 
cash lump sum of just over £41,600. And I think this amount was sufficient to allow Mr W to 
clear his outstanding debts in full. I can see this option was discounted by Quilter because 
there wasnt enough money to enable Mr W to achieve his other objective of having a 
contingency fund, money for some house improvements and the holiday he wanted. But I 
dont think Mr Ws objective of wanting money for home improvements or a holiday could 
reasonably be described as pressing such that the option of early retirement shouldve been 
discounted on this basis. It was recorded earlier in the advice paperwork that the home improvements and holiday were ...future expenditure. But in any event, I think Mr W could 
still achieve these things by taking early retirement from his DB scheme.
By taking early retirement Mr W also had to take an immediate income recorded as being 
around £6,250 a year. I accept that Mr W didnt need this income at the time  his earned 
income once hed cleared his debts wouldve provided him with a surplus income. But 
importantly by taking the extra income it wouldnt have pushed Mr Ws total income into the 
high-rate tax band and as the adviser recorded in the advice paperwork, Mr W couldve 
saved this surplus income towards meeting his other objectives. And while Mr W is recorded 
as saying that he didnt see a need to do so, I think Quilter couldve explained to Mr W how 
saving this income couldve met his objectives. Quilters role wasnt simply to accept what 
Mr W said and facilitate what he thought he needed  its role was to really understand Mr 
Ws needs and act in his best interests.
Mr Ws surplus income from his earned income, once hed repaid his debts, was recorded as 
being around £930. After allowing for Mr W to increase his pension contributions to his 
workplace DC scheme to benefit from his employers increased contribution, which he could 
still achieve doing things this way, this gave Mr W a surplus monthly income of around £720. 
When added to his DB scheme income, which would add at least £400 net a month, I think 
Mr W wouldve had a total surplus income in excess of £1,100 a month. 
So in a little over four months, Mr W wouldve saved enough to provide for the contingency 
fund he was seeking to achieve - recorded as being a need for four times his essential 
monthly expenditure of around £1,300  after which he couldve continued saving to provide 
for his future expenditure of home improvements and a holiday. Furthermore by maintaining 
this level of saving, which I see no reason why Mr W couldnt do, he couldve built up an 
additional sum which he couldve used to help support his future retirement needs when he 
decided to stop working. So I dont think Mr W needed to risk his pension benefits to achieve 
things.
I can see that Quilter says Mr W had more flexibility by transferring to a personal 
arrangement, so if his circumstances changed and he needed to retire early he couldve still 
purchased a fixed income. But by remaining in the DB scheme Mr W had an income which 
was guaranteed and it escalated. It also formed a solid foundation to Mr Ws overall 
retirement income need. Mr Ws plans were to continue working and given he was in good 
health at the time of the advice, and he said he enjoyed his work there was nothing to 
indicate this wasnt possible. So as I will now go onto explain, I think Mr W could also met his 
retirement income needs by remaining in the DB scheme. 
Mr Ws retirement income need was recorded as being £17,000 a year. Mr Ws DB scheme 
pension combined with his state pension due at age 66 amounted to a little over £14,500. 
Mr W also had a section 32 buyout plan, which was projected to provide another £500 or so 
a year. This wasnt enough to meet Mr Ws income need in full, although it provided just 
under 90% of it.
But importantly, Mr W was also contributing to his workplace pension, which he intended to 
increase once hed repaid his debts and his income allowed it. It was recorded that Mr W 
wanted to increase his contribution to 10% of his salary (I understand this is what Mr W did) 
which meant his employer would commit to contributing a further 16% giving a total pension 
contribution of 26%, or a little over £9,100 a year. Over the next six or more years Mr W 
intended to continue working, this had the potential to amount to a not insignificant sum  
around £80,000 based on his current salary (not allowing for any growth) and the £25,000 
lump sum it was recorded his employer had agreed to add following changes to the pension 
scheme. I think this wouldve likely provided the difference Mr W needed to meet his overall 
retirement income need.And while there is nothing to indicate Mr W had a need for variable income, Mr Ws 
workplace pension wouldve provided him with flexibility. He couldve taken lump sums as 
and when required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. 
Overall I think Mr W couldve met both his short-term and retirement income needs by 
remaining in the DB scheme. Mr W couldve taken early retirement form the scheme using 
the cash lump sum on offer to repay his debts. And his DB scheme income, together with his 
other smaller section 32 plan, his state pension and his workplace pension, wouldve likely 
given him the income he needed in retirement. I dont think Mr W needed to risk his 
guaranteed benefits to achieve things.
Death benefits
The suitability report recorded that another reason for the recommendation was to enable 
Mr Ws children to benefit from his pension, in the form of a lump sum benefit, in the event of 
his death.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr W given the circumstances. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme benefits to a personal pension 
because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I dont think the potential 
for different or greater death benefits should have been prioritised over this and Mr Ws 
security in retirement. And I say potential, because the sum left on Mr Ws death was 
dependent on investment returns  so if he lived a long life, and/or investment returns were 
lower than expected, there may not have been a large sum to pass on anyway.
Quilter recorded that Mr W had death-in-service cover through his employer if he died before 
retirement. So he already had lump sum death benefits available, which I see no reason why 
he couldnt have nominated his children to receive - if he hadnt already done so. And Quilter 
knew Mr W was contributing to his workplace DC pension scheme and he wouldve been 
able to nominate his children as beneficiaries of this plan too  again if he hadnt already 
done so.
I can see that Quilter discussed achieving Mr Ws objective using life cover and it produced a 
quote for a sum assured for the full transfer value of £219,000. This was discounted because 
Mr W didnt want to take on additional costs, which at £55 a month given Mr Ws current 
financial circumstances isnt perhaps surprising.
 
But I dont think that this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr W. If Mr W 
genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children, over and above that which was already 
available, and which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund 
remained on his death, I think Quilter shouldve instead explored additional life insurance 
properly.
 
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Ws pension benefits essentially assumed that 
he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, 
Mr W wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension fund to his children, which would be 
a lot less than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the 
starting point ought to have been to ask Mr W how much he would ideally like to leave to his children, and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which 
was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide. And given Mr Ws financial position was going to 
improve substantially, the level of his disposable income wouldve meant it was affordable  
something Quilter shouldve reminded Mr W about. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. And I dont think Quilter 
did enough to explore or highlight the alternatives available to Mr W to meet this objective.
Summary
I dont doubt that the larger tax-free cash lump sum, flexibility and potential for higher or 
different death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like 
attractive features to Mr W. But Quilter wasnt there to just transact what Mr W might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr W needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
I accept that Mr W was accompanied by a third-party in his dealings with Quilter because he 
was deemed a vulnerable client and that it detailed the advantages and risks associated with 
the transfer to Mr W. But that doesnt alter the fact that ultimately, I dont think the advice 
given to Mr W was suitable. By transferring, Mr W was very likely to obtain lower retirement 
benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons, which would justify a 
transfer and outweigh this. Its clear that Mr W had a pressing need to access a lump sum to 
clear his outstanding debts to ease his financial burden and to allow him to further fund his 
future pension provision. But I dont think Mr W needed to transfer and give up the 
guarantees associated with his DB scheme  for the reasons Ive set out above, I consider 
Mr W couldve achieved all of his objectives by remaining in his DB scheme and taking 
immediate early retirement.
So I think Quilter shouldve advised Mr W to remain in his DB scheme and take his benefits 
immediately.
Of course, I have to consider whether if things had happened as they should have, whether 
Mr W would've gone ahead anyway against Quilters advice.
Ive considered this carefully - but Im not persuaded that Mr W wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Quilters advice. I say this because I dont think 
Mr W was sufficiently experienced in financial matters such that he possessed the necessary 
confidence, skill or knowledge to go against the advice he was given in pension matters. 
Mr Ws DB scheme accounted for a significant portion of his retirement income at the time. 
So, if Quilter had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests and that he could achieve his goals by taking 
immediate benefits from his DB scheme rather than risking his guaranteed pension, I think 
that wouldve carried significant weight - I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Quilter should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Mr W has chosen not to wait for any the new guidance / rules to come into effect to settle his 
complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr W. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Quilters unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme and taken early retirement if suitable advice 
had been given.
Quilter must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, had suitable advice been given, I think Mr W wouldve taken the benefits from his 
DB scheme early at 59, so this should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Quilter may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date Quilter receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Quilter to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Quilter to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Quilter Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Quilter 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Quilter Financial Services Ltd pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman