DRN-3449560
The complaint
Mr A complains that Equifax Limited linked an unknown address to his credit file which led to 
incorrect information being recorded. 
What happened
Mr A has told us he found an unrecognised account and linked address on his credit file after 
a business loan application was turned down. In November 2021 Mr A contacted Equifax to 
dispute the linked address and advised hed never lived there. Mr As credit file showed 
several accounts that were linked with the address he disputed. One of the accounts related 
to a communications provider (B). Bs account was also being reported by a firm of debt 
collectors (L) and showed as being in default. 
Equifax contacted all the businesses reporting information linked to the disputed address. 
Equifax raised a dispute with each business, including B and L. B responded to Equifaxs 
query but said its entry was correctly recorded on Mr As credit file. L responded to Equifax 
and requested Mr A get in touch directly. Equifax gave the responses to Mr A and confirmed 
it couldnt amend his credit file without the permission of the reporting businesses. 
Mr A complained but Equifax didnt agree it had acted unfairly by refusing to amend his 
credit file. An investigator at this service looked into Mr As complaint but thought Equifax 
had dealt with it fairly. During the investigation Mr A contacted B and L to dispute the 
information directly. L responded and said it had registered its entry due to an address link 
on his Mr As credit file and taken steps to remove it. As Mr A asked to appeal, his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has told us he doesnt recognise the address that various business have entries 
recorded at on his credit file. I understand why Mr A brought this up with Equifax and its 
required to investigate disputes consumers raise about unrecognised information. But that 
doesnt mean a Equifax has to delete information without first checking with the reporting 
businesses. 
Ive looked at Equifaxs systems information and communications with the businesses 
involved. Equifax quickly took steps to dispute all entries linked to the address Mr A advised 
he didnt recognise. Some of the businesses didnt respond. But B did respond to Equifax 
and refused permission for its entry to be removed from Mr As credit file. B said the entry 
related to an account from 2018 in Mr As name. L responded and asked Equifax to request 
Mr A make contact directly to discuss its entry. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but Im satisfied Equifax followed the right process and raised 
disputes with the reporting businesses on his behalf. Equifax cant amend information 
without the permission of the reporting business. And both B and L refused permission to 
amend Mr As credit file when disputes were raised in November 2021. 
Mr A has told us that both B and L have now agreed the accounts were linked to his credit 
file in error and taken steps to amend the information reported. I appreciate thats different to 
what Equifax has told Mr A. I cant say why Mr A and Equifax received different responses 
from the reporting businesses. But Im satisfied Equifax did dispute the linked address and 
associated accounts when Mr A raised a dispute and forwarded the responses accordingly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but as Im satisfied Equifax followed the correct process when 
disputing the linked address and associated accounts and that it dealt with his complaint 
fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman