DRN-3536938
The complaint
Mrs J complained, on her own behalf and also in her capacity as the appointed executrix of 
the estate of Mr J, that Lloyds Bank PLC provided unsuitable investment advice to her and 
her late husband in 1998 when they sought advice on savings/investments.
Mrs J is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC) but, to help 
keep things simpler, Ill refer in my decision to Mrs J as the complainant.
What happened
In September 1998, over the course of ten days or so, Mrs J and the late Mr J attended two 
meetings with an adviser from Lloyds who recommended that they each invest £12,000 into 
the Guaranteed Stock Market Bond (GSMB) for a period of six years. The bonds matured in 
September 2004 and each paid out £12,012.
The GSMB offered a capital guarantee plus the potential for growth if the stock market 
increased by a certain percentage.
In brief summary, Mrs J mainly felt that Lloyds hadnt provided any meaningful information 
showing the extent of the gamble they were taking by investing in the GSMB compared to 
the risk-free return they could have received if the money was in deposit accounts. She also 
said their personal circumstances meant she and her husband shouldnt have locked their 
money away in the GSMB. And keeping in mind inflation and the fact that they had no 
previous investment experience, the investment advice from Lloyds was unsuitable. 
In response to this complaint, Lloyds didnt agree that the advice it gave had been 
unsuitable. It said the bonds met the investment objectives Mr and Mrs J told the adviser 
about when they wished to move some of their investment money to a lower risk product that 
guaranteed return of their capital. 
In summary, Lloyds said:
through their discussions with the adviser, Mr and Mrs J were both identified as 
having a low risk approach which matched the bonds low risk rating,
the GSMBs Mr and Mrs J invested in were suitable for their stated objectives and 
lowered rather than increased Mr and Mrs Js overall exposure to risk at the time, 
they were affordable for Mr and Mrs J over the six year term, 
full product paperwork was provided to Mr and Mrs J, including performance 
illustrations, so Mr and Mrs J had accurate information about potential performance 
which they would have understood when making their investment choices. 
So Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He thought that Lloyds had considered 
Mr and Mrs Js circumstances before recommending the GSMBs. He said the adviser had 
looked at Mr and Mrs Js financial position, including their income and cash/assets, their 
attitude to risk, their investment goals and how long they could invest for, alongside taking 
into account future changes to their circumstances. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs J didnt agree with the investigator. She mainly still feels that suitability is intrinsically 
linked with what else is available Her view is that if the same or a similar return was 
available risk free, there could be no justification for taking a gamble on a product that may 
or may not provide the same return. The CMC said that had Mr and Mrs J been given clear 
and fair information at the time, they would not have accepted this investment advice.  
The complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate 
complaints about events that happened more than six years ago, Lloyds has said it consents 
to us looking at this complaint. So I've proceeded to consider everything that has been said 
about the merits of this complaint. 
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
I think its reasonable for me to rely substantially on the available point of sale 
documentation Ive seen to give me an insight into Mr and Mrs Js circumstances and 
financial situation at the time and an understanding of their wishes and intentions. 
The record of Mr and Mrs Js financial interview, recorded by Lloyds adviser at the time, 
shows that whilst Mr J and Mrs J were no longer in paid employment, their living costs and 
other financial needs and requirements were covered out of their joint monthly income of 
£1,165, leaving them an ample cash surplus of more than £400 each month. 
It was recorded that Mr and Mrs J had no debts, no dependants and they owned their own 
home free from mortgage. They had no reported liabilities or future spending plans and they 
werent expecting to have to meet any big expenses. 
Mr and Mrs J held £27,229 in a joint current account. This included £24,000 (made up of 
£12,000 from each of their PEPs - a form of tax efficient equity based investment) which 
they had transferred in readiness to invest leaving them each a balance of £5,750 still in 
their own PEP. Mrs J also held £14,951 in a 60-day notice account. Mr J held a GSMB he 
had invested £10,000 into in 1997 and he had a savings account with a balance of £4,123.  
I find Mr and Mrs J had sufficient disposable income and other means to be able to absorb 
some investment loss if necessary  their day to day needs were already being met out of 
income and they had enough surplus cash each month, other cash savings and other 
assets to make it unlikely they would need to depend on the £24,000 they invested. So 
I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs  J were in a strong enough financial situation safely to be 
able to invest the £24,000  particularly bearing in mind that they were transferring money 
between investments rather than drawing on their cash reserves or income to do this. 
Ive gone on to think about whether the GSMBs recommended were right for Mrs J and 
Mr Js needs.Lloyds documentation records that Mr and Mrs J each wanted to invest £12,000 to obtain 
capital growth in order to maximise funds for future use and retain capital security. They 
were prepared to invest for a term of six years. Mr and Mrs J both signed the Reasons Why 
Letter where this information is recorded, so I think its reasonable to assume it accurately 
represents Mr and Mrs Js investment objectives at the time. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs J might only have had limited investment experience although 
Ive noted that Mr J was already invested in the GSMB and they both had PEPs. So 
Mr and Mrs J werent completely new to investing. And the main reason for seeking 
advice was that they had concerns of their own about some of their existing investments 
in PEPs and wanted to make changes to less risky investments. 
This all suggests to me that Mr and Mrs J had a reasonable understanding of the basic 
principle that, when choosing to invest, they needed to balance their investment 
objectives against the risk they felt comfortable taking with their money. 
There is mention in the record of Mr and Mrs Js financial interview that they wanted to 
make provision for the future and they had transferred funds from their PEPs in 
readiness for investment in a capital safe environment. 
Also, given their age, they wanted to ensure stability and have been worried about their 
funds  They were both keen to ensure that the funds are protected to some extent to 
give peace of mind from a financial point of view during (their) retirement.
So it seems clear that an important consideration for Mr and Mrs J was that their 
investment would not expose them to the risk of making a capital loss.  
Mr and Mrs J had already taken money out of their PEPs and were looking to move a 
substantial part of their investment pot to a less risky investment product. The GSMB 
gave them an assurance that their capital was secure (PEPs offered no such guarantee). 
They also wished to take advantage of the potential growth rate of the stock market. The 
GSMB aimed to provide opportunity for capital growth by linking the bonds to the 
performance of the FTSE 100 index over a fixed period. So I can see why transferring 
their investment to a product that offered the capital protection that was important to 
them whilst still giving them a chance to potentially benefit from gains on the stockmarket 
was attractive to Mr and Mrs J. 
Lloyds recorded Mr and Mrs J were both prepared to take a low risk with their investments. 
It is completely understandable that Mr and Mrs J wanted to reduce their exposure to risk 
overall, given their financial situation and circumstances. The GSMB bond was classed as 
low risk and I am satisfied that it represented a reduction in their exposure to the risk of 
capital losses associated with more adventurous investments primarily in stocks (which 
Mr and Mrs J were moving away from by having already transferred funds out of their PEPs). 
In addition to their discussions with the adviser about risk and the investment 
opportunities the GSMB could offer them, Mr and Mrs J were provided with product 
literature, which gave them access to additional information that could have helped them 
to make an informed investment decision. 
I've taken into account that the CMC felt the GSMB was too risky for Mr and Mrs J as it said 
it had a very low chance of outperforming risk-free savings accounts available at the time  
meaning, the CMC said, their money was unnecessarily exposed to too much risk. I can see 
that the returns on the GSMB were, in the event, disappointing. I can understand why the 
CMC says that Mr and Mrs Js investment might have done better in a deposit based 
savings account which would have also been lower risk than the GSMB. But even though the GSMB didnt deliver the returns Mr and Mrs J might have hoped for when they made 
their investment, the way the investment performed is outside the scope of this complaint  
I am looking at whether the GSMB was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs J when 
they were advised to invest in it. 
The adviser recorded that whilst Mr and Mrs J had been concerned about market 
movements, they realised things could pick back up and they wanted to take advantage of 
the potentially greater growth which this may give but are more concerned about protecting 
their existing capital in order to safeguard their future. Investing in the GSMB offered 
Mr and Mrs J the possibility of greater growth over the next six years whilst at the same time 
guaranteeing their capital investment. 
Whilst the CMC said Mr and Mrs J shouldnt have been advised to tie up their money for six 
years in the GSMB, I think they most likely understood that they would need to hold on to the 
GSMB for the minimum recommended period in order to maximise the chance of making 
investment gains and they were willing to do this.
Thinking about their financial situation overall at the time, I dont find they had locked-in too 
high a proportion of their funds or that their investment in the GSMB left them with 
insufficient enough money they could access otherwise. I am also satisfied that the overall 
sum Mr and Mrs J invested in the GSMB didnt leave them exposed to the risk of making no 
return on such a sizeable proportion of their assets for 6 years that it was not suitable. 
To sum up, I find that the GSMB matched Mr and Mrs Js investment needs and objectives 
and reasonably reflected Mr and Mrs Js attitude to risk, bearing in mind they were reducing 
their overall risk exposure by moving away from investing in PEPs.   
All in all, I consider that the investment advice was suitable, given Mr and Mrs Js particular 
circumstances and financial situation at the time they were recommended to invest £12,000 
each in the GSMB. 
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mrs J but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall conclusion.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and the 
estate of Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman