DRN-2342183
The complaint
This complaint is about a personal loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2009. Mr and Mrs P say Black Horse Limited trading as Black Horse Finance mis-sold 
them PPI. For simplicity I will refer to the business as Black Horse for the majority of the 
rest of this decision.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ps circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Black Horses offer 
to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission 
and profit share Mr and Mrs P paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Black Horse should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Black Horses offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Black Horse made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. I say this because to get the cover Mr and Mrs P had to sign for 
it in a section of the loan application called Optional payment protection plan. They have 
so signed in the copy of the loan application form that Black Horse has been able to 
provide us. And the signatures were separate from the signatures they applied to the 
form to secure the loan. 
Black Horse recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances at the time, shows 
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. The policy provided 
cover for Mrs P only who was eligible for the cover and the cover would have paid out in 
addition to her own insurance and her company sick pay and for longer than her 
employers would have paid her at her full rate of pay. And Mrs P had only life and critical 
illness cover to rely on which wouldnt have paid out if Mrs P was off work for a long time 
with a non-life-threatening condition, or if she lost her job. So, although Mrs P had some 
existing means she still seems to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Ps employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim. 
Its possible the information Black Horse gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs P 
as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs P would have declined the cover had Black Horse done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs P would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Black Horse should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ps particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Black Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Black Horse should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Black Horses offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Black Horse didnt tell Mr and Mrs P about the high levels of commission and profit share 
paid in this case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Black Horse and Mr and Mrs P was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because Black Horse didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case 
I dont think Black Horse acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs P 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs P should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Black Horse failed to tell Mr and Mrs P about the high commission and 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipprofit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs P 
wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they 
should receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr 
and Mrs P in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Black Horse not disclosing the high 
level of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Ps representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Black Horses failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Black Horse to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr and Mrs P paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and 
Mrs P with the policy Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if Black Horse had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So, I consider that Black Horses payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
Black Horse has told us it has already made this payment. As Black Horse has already paid 
Mr and Mrs P compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do anything further. My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Black 
Horse Limited trading as Black Horse Finance should pay Mr and Mrs P an amount 
equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus 
associated interest where applicable). As Black Horse Limited trading as Black Horse 
Finance has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that Black Horse 
Limited trading as Black Horse Finance should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman