DRN-2227051
The complaint
Mr P complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined his mobile phone 
insurance claim. My references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
Mr P has mobile phone insurance through his bank account, Assurant is the insurer. Mr P 
claimed for the theft of his two mobile phones from his work vehicle. 
Mr P told Assurant that the phones were on top of the passenger seat of his work vehicle 
covered by his rucksack. The bag was visible from outside the vehicle. He locked and left 
the vehicle to go to a customers property in a block of flats. He said when he got back to the 
vehicle about 5-7 minutes later the passenger window had been smashed and the two 
phones had been stolen. Both phones were his personal phones. His employer said he 
shouldnt take his own phone into customers properties. 
Assurant declined the claim. It said Mr P hadnt taken reasonable care of the phones so 
there was no cover under the policy terms and having a rucksack on the passenger seat 
increased the risk of theft as it attracted the attention of thieves.
Mr P then gave Assurant additional information. He said the bag covering the phones was a 
lunch bag with sandwiches, not a proper rucksack. The work vehicle was driven by different 
people everyday so the glove box was full and he couldnt put his phones in there. His work 
tools were in his trouser pockets so he couldnt take his phones with him.
Assurant still declined the claim and Mr P complained to us. He felt strongly that hed been a 
victim of crime but he was being scrutinized.
Our investigator said Assurant had unfairly declined the claim.
Assurant disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
I sympathise with Mr P as hes been the victim of a crime. But I have to decide whether 
Assurant fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did.
Im intending to not uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy says:
We expect you to take care of your mobile phone. If you dont take care of your 
mobile phone then we may not accept your claim. Taking care of your mobile phone 
means:
Not knowingly leaving your mobile phone somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or 
damaged
If you need to leave your mobile phone somewhere then we expect you to lock it 
away out of sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it 
with someone you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place.
We will always take into account where you are and what you are doing when we 
assess whether you have taken care of your phone. If we believe you have not taken 
care of your mobile phone, and have knowingly taken a risk with it, we may decline 
your claim.
Theres been correspondence during our investigation about whether Mr P changed what he 
said about the type of bag he put on the phones, but I dont think the type of bag matters.
As Mr P put the bag on the phones to cover them its clear he knew there was some risk of 
theft. However, I dont think the steps Mr P took were enough to protect his phones from 
theft.
Mr P has said why he couldnt put the phones in the work vehicle glove box or take his 
phones with him when he left the vehicle. But I think he could still have done more to make 
sure the phones were completely out of sight in the vehicle which would have reduced the 
likelihood of them being stolen.
I dont think the passenger seat is a safe place, as the policy requires, as its visible through 
the vehicles windows. I dont think a bag over the phones is enough to make the passenger 
seat a safe place. I also think its probable the phones were still visible in some way under 
the bag as the passenger seat window close to the phones was broken to get access to the 
vehicle.
In the circumstances Assurant can fairly and reasonably decline the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Assurant didnt respond. Mr P didnt agree. In summary he said:
in the background to my provisional decision Id said hed reported the theft of one 
phone and three days later he contacted Assurant again and reported the theft of a 
second phone in the same incident. Id also said he took his work phone into the 
customers property. Mr P said that information was wrong and he wanted to know 
where I got the details from. He was concerned Id based my decision on incorrect  
information 
he believed hed kept to the above policy term and found it contradictory that the 
investigator and I had come to different conclusions about him taking reasonable 
care of the phones
it was unfair for me to say his phones were probably still in sight through the window 
when hed said they werent. He was concerned I was suggesting what he said was 
untrue. He said he wouldnt have left the phones in sight particularly as one was only 
a couple of months into a two year contract. He paid insurance to not have the 
inconvenience and stress he had now
he hadnt changed his description of the bag on the seat. Assurants representative 
didnt understand his description. The bag wouldnt give someone the impression there was something valuable in it
as there were considerable differences between the events he reported to Assurant 
and what Id said hed like me to listen to his calls with Assurant and review my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ps response to my provisional decision and listened to the calls we have 
but Ive not changed my mind about whats a fair outcome. 
Assurants records say there was three day gap in Mr P reporting the loss of his two phones 
and that he took his work phone into the customers premises. Ive listened to the calls 
Assurant sent which are the calls where it talks to Mr P about the circumstances of the theft. 
They dont include when Mr P initially reported the theft. In the calls Ive listened to Mr P told 
Assurant he had work tools in his pocket so it may well be Assurant misunderstood that to 
mean Mr P took his work phone.
I understand why Mr Ps concerned I may have wrong information. But importantly my 
decision isnt based on whether Mr P reported the two phones stolen in one or two calls, 
whether he took his work phone with him or details about the type of bag covering the 
phones.
My decision is based on whether I think Mr P took reasonable care in putting his phones 
under his bag, and I dont think he did. Mr P told Assurant the phones were out of sight and 
I dont doubt he thought they were. But even if I accept the phones where completely out of  
sight I still dont think phones on the passenger seat under a bag which is visible from the 
vehicle windows is a safe place, which is what the policy requires. 
Mr P knew there was some risk of theft which is why he put the phones under the bag. But 
I dont think the steps he took were enough to protect his phones from theft.
Its disappointing for Mr P that my decision is different from the investigators view. But 
I have to look at the complaint afresh and Im satisfied Assurant fairly and reasonably 
declined the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman