DRN-3149575
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has declined his 
permanent disability claim.
What happened
Mr P held a Personal Accident and Optional Life and Critical Illness policy with AIG.
In late 2017, Mr P was involved in a car accident. Initially he seemed to have avoided 
serious injury but some months later he was admitted to hospital for treatment and 
rehabilitation. In August 2018, he submitted a claim for hospitalisation benefit under his 
policy, which was accepted by AIG.
However, Mr P continued to struggle with his health and later made a claim for permanent 
total disablement as a result of the accident. Mr P explained he was suffering from on-going 
symptoms which left him struggling with everyday activities and was unable to work. His 
driving licence had been withdrawn by the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Authority (DVLA) 
due to a significant mental health condition. And as he needed a driving licence for his 
work, he was made redundant by his employer. AIG considered his claim, including medical 
reports from two independent specialists it had asked to examine Mr P, but decided there 
was insufficient evidence to show he met the policy terms to accept his claim.
Mr P submitted two additional reports from specialists hed seen, but AIG didnt accept these 
reports as evidence in support of his claim. It said the two reports were heavily redacted and 
as a result, couldnt be relied on. Mr P was unable to provide AIG with unredacted copies. 
Mr P is unhappy with AIGs decision and raised a complaint with this service. He wants AIG 
to accept his claim and award him the benefit available under the policy.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps concerns and decided AIG had reasonably declined the 
claim for permanent total disablement, but she thought it had taken too long to reach that 
decision and ultimately awarded Mr P £150.00 compensation.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators position on his claim and asked for his case to be 
reconsidered by an ombudsman. 
AIG didnt agree compensation was warranted and denied delaying its decision.
Because both parties disagreed with the outcome reached by our investigator, the case has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and let the parties know I was intending to 
reach a different outcome to that of our investigator. In my provisional decision I said  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I want to reassure both parties Ive 
considered everything provided to me very carefully. Mr P and AIG are very familiar with the 
circumstances of this complaint, so Ill limit my findings to the evidence I think is most 
relevant to the outcome.
Ive also carefully considered AIGs obligations as set out by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably reject a claim. And 
based on the evidence presented to me by both parties, I dont think AIG has unreasonably 
declined Mr Ps claim or caused unnecessary delays in reaching its decision 
I understand Mr P will be disappointed by my decision and Im very sorry to hear about the 
difficulties hes faced. Both parties have provided evidence which shows the complex and 
sensitive nature of Mr Ps circumstances following the car accident. 
Permanent total disablement claim
Mr Ps policy includes specific terms about claims for total permanent disablement. These 
terms are important as they form part of the contract between Mr P and AIG.
The policy terms say:
What the insurance covers
If, during the period of cover, you suffer bodily injury which, within two years solely 
and independently of any other cause, results in death, a catastrophic injury, a 
permanent disability, specified burns, specified fractures, hospitalisation or flesh 
wounds, we will pay the total sum insured
Bodily injured is defined as:
Injury to the body caused by an accident.  It does not include:
Sickness or disease unless this results from injury to the Body; or
Post-traumatic stress disorder; or
A psychological or psychiatric illness or condition; or
Injury caused by any gradual cause
Permanent disability is defined as:
the total inability to do paid work of any kind which will probably last for the rest of 
your life
In order to make a successful claim Mr P would need to demonstrate he was able to meet 
the policy terms shown above. And to establish the eligibility of Mr Ps claim, AIG is entitled 
to ask for further information, including information from independent medical experts, before 
reaching its decision.
In Mr Ps case, along with the other information provided to it, AIG sought two expert reports 
 one from a Consultant Neurologist and one from a Consultant Neuropsychologist. To 
protect Mr Ps privacy, I wont go into specific details of their reports, but neither expert 
appears to be able to say conclusively that his ongoing problems, and therefore his eligibility for permanent total disablement benefit, are solely as a result of the bodily injury he 
sustained in the car accident. Both reports reference Mr Ps history of, and on-going 
difficulties with his mental health and while the experts express differing opinions about the 
impact of his mental health difficulties, I dont think its unreasonable for AIG to conclude that 
neither report shows he meets the policy terms of an eligible claim.
Ive also considered the additional reports submitted by Mr P and I dont think AIG has been 
unreasonable in concluding the information is insufficient to consider as part of his claim.  
The reports are heavily redacted, with the authors names removed and lack context.
Im not a doctor so its not for me to agree or disagree with the findings of the experts or to 
overlay my own thoughts about Mr Ps condition. My role is to consider the evidence 
provided to AIG and decide if AIG reached a reasonable conclusion. And I think it has.
Time taken to assess the claim
I understand Mr P is unhappy with the time taken by AIG to give its decision on his claim.
And our investigator, based on the information available at the time, agreed things had taken 
too long. She noted Mr P had initially complained to AIG about delays and had received a 
final response from it in June 2019.  But because Mr P didnt refer that element of his 
concerns to us within six months of AIGs letter, its not something we can consider.
The Financial Ombudsman Service can only consider complaints that are within its 
jurisdiction, the parameters of which are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook 
under Redress, DISP Dispute Resolution: Complaints (the DISP rules). DISP 2.8.2 
explains the Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if its referred more than six months 
after the respondent, in this case AIG, sent its final response letter. 
The rules do allow discretion for the Ombudsman to consider a complaint referred out of 
time where the Ombudsman believes exceptional circumstances apply. But Ive not seen 
anything to show exceptional circumstances prevented Mr P from referring his complaint in 
time.
As a result, this Service can only consider Mr Ps concerns about delays from June 2019.  
Ive focussed my review on AIGs service from that date onwards. 
Ive conducted a detailed review of the timeline of events and for the most part, Im satisfied 
AIG progressed matters in line with my expectations, although I appreciate Mr P was 
anxious for an answer. As Ive said, this was a complicated case, something both parties 
acknowledge. 
It took three months between June and September 2019 for the appointment with the 
first medical expert to take place. But I dont think that delay was caused by AIG. Ive 
seen information between AIG and the third party arranging the expert report and this 
was the first appointment available with the consultant. The consultant report was 
received at the end of October 2019.
There was a gap in contact between the end of November 2019 and beginning of 
January 2020. Mr Ps case had been passed to a new case handler during 
December 2020. 
The new case handler apologised and explained the Christmas and New Year 
holiday meant things couldnt be progressed with the second medical expert. Mr P 
had been made aware, in late November 2019, that the original medical report was insufficient, and a second expert was being sought. I understand Mr P was anxious 
for an update but taking everything into account, I think the apology offered by the 
case handler is sufficient in these circumstances
Sadly, Mr Ps access to the second independent medical expert was caught up in the 
coronavirus pandemic. I can see AIG made the referral in early 2020, and regularly 
chased for the appointment to be put in place, but the expert had difficulty receiving 
Mr Ps medical information from the treating hospital and ultimately he couldnt be 
seen by the second expert until July 2020. The second report was received by AIG in 
August 2020. I know this must have been an incredibly frustrating time for Mr P but I 
dont think I can reasonably hold AIG responsible for delays in accessing medical 
information, or a face to face appointment, at a time when the country was in 
lockdown and medical services were focussed on treating those affected by the 
coronavirus pandemic.
AIG accepted my provisional findings.
Mr P disagreed with the outcome Id reached.  He explained:
Hes considered disabled by some government agencies. 
He doesnt agree his driving licence was revoked due to a significant mental health 
condition. 
Hes provided copies of two letters hes received from the DVLA  a further copy of 
the letter quoted in my provisional decision, dated August 2018, which refers to 
significant mental health condition and a second letter, dated November 2018, 
which refers to persisting neurological symptoms. 
Based on the information provided to me Im satisfied the earlier letter relates to the 
time Mr Ps licence was originally revoked and connected to his employers decision 
to make him redundant.
Hes concerned that by not upholding his complaint Ive question the truthfulness of 
his testimony.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Im not a doctor and its not for me to reach a 
finding on Mr Ps symptoms although I am very sorry to hear about the problems hes faced. 
And I accept hes considered disabled by some government agencies. But my role in these 
circumstances is to consider the evidence provided to AIG in relation to his claim under his 
personal accident policy, and to decide if AIGs decision to decline his claim is reasonable. 
In Mr Ps case, the evidence Ive seen shows the accident caused a brain injury, but a later 
brain scan shows that injury appeared to have resolved. And having examined Mr P and 
considered the medical evidence provided, including the brain scans and Mr Ps medical 
history, neither independent specialist was able to say Mr Ps on-going problems are directly, 
and only, caused by the accident.
After careful consideration, Mr Ps further representations havent persuaded me to reach a 
different outcome to that proposed in my provisional decision.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking American 
International Group UK Limited to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman