DRN-4317350
The complaint
Ms P complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc declined her application for a 
credit card after she says it implied she would be approved.  
What happened
In December 2022, Ms P made an application for a Marks & Spencer credit card online. Ms 
P contacted Marks & Spencer on 16 January 2023, as she hadnt had an outcome response 
to the application  letting her know whether she had been accepted or declined.
Ms Ps application was referred to the underwriting team on 16 January 2023, and Ms P was 
asked to provide a copy of her payslip before the application could continue. Ms P provided 
a copy of a payslip, however upon further review of her application, she was declined. 
Ms P complains that when she spoke to the agent on 16 January 2023, she says she was 
told that the application had been approved and she just needed to send in a copy of her 
payslip. And she says that when she called to make her complaint, the person she spoke to 
tried to stop her from making a complaint. To put things right, Ms P says she would like the 
credit searches removing from her credit file, an apology and £250 compensation. 
Marks & Spencer responded to Ms Ps complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it hadnt made 
an error in declining Mr Ps application and it would only remove a credit search if it had 
made a mistake. 
An Investigator also looked into Ms Ps complaint. They thought Marks & Spencer had fairly 
declined Ms Ps application. The Investigator listened to the call Ms P had with the agent on 
16 January 2023 and didnt find that Ms P was told the application had been approved. And 
so, the Investigator didnt think Marks & Spencer needed to do anything to put things right for 
Ms P. 
Ms P didnt agree with the Investigator. She explained that she came away from the call with 
the Marks & Spencer agent with the impression that the card had been approved. And one 
of the reasons for this was because the agent asked Ms P how much she would like her 
credit limit to be.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I wont be upholding Ms Ps complaint. I 
appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Ms P, however I will explain my 
reasons for this below. 
There is no guarantee that an application for lending will be approved. Whether a business is 
prepared to lend to a customer is usually determined by its lending criteria. And this service 
generally wouldnt interfere with a business commercial decision on what risks it is prepared 
to take when lending to a customer. There is also an expectation that a business reviews an 
application to ensure that it lends responsibly. 
Looking at whats happened in this case, I can see that Ms Ps application was referred to 
Marks & Spencers underwriting team before a lending decision could be made. And it 
requested further information from Ms P in order to be able to continue with the application. 
Upon reviewing this information, alongside the application Ms P completed, and other 
information available to it, Marks & Spencer took the decision to decline the application. I 
havent seen any information that persuades me its decision to decline the application was 
unfair or unreasonable. 
I have listened to the call Ms P had with Marks & Spencer on 16 January 2023. The agent 
confirmed that he would proceed with the application and requested a payslip from Ms P. 
The agent told Ms P that once they were satisfied with the documents, they would accept the 
application. The agent also asked Ms P what credit limit she wanted in case the application 
was approved. 
While I can understand why Ms P might have thought the application was going to be 
accepted, I dont agree Ms P was told this. Nor was she provided with incorrect information 
during the call. I note that Ms P feels that by her being asked what credit limit she wanted 
implies she was accepted, or going to be accepted for the card, but I cant agree that this is 
the case. The agent specifically says in case we are going to approve the request, how 
much do you prefer as your credit limit? I dont find that this question implies Ms P had or 
was going to be accepted for the credit card. 
Overall, I dont find that Ms Ps application for the credit card was unfairly declined - or that it 
made a mistake in telling her that her application had been accepted when it hadnt.
I have noted that Ms P wants the credit search for this application removing from her credit 
file. Marks & Spencer has a responsibility to report accurate information to the credit 
reference agency. And given that Ms P decided to apply for the account, the credit search is 
a true reflection of whats happened here. So, I dont find it unfair or unreasonable that 
Marks & Spencer had said it wont remove the credit search from her credit file. 
I have also listened to the call Ms P had with the agent when she asked to make a complaint 
about the declined application. This service doesnt have the power to consider complaints 
about how a business, like Marks & Spencer, handled a complaint. Aside from this, I have 
thought about the customer service Ms P has received from Marks & Spencer overall. And 
having done so, I dont think she has been treated unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman