DRN-3516660
The complaint
Ms M complains about the charges applied to a contract extension for a hire agreement with 
Leasys UK LTD (Leasys). Ms M is also unhappy that no allowances were made for the 
impact the Covid-19 pandemic had on her usage of the car.
What happened
In January 2020 Ms M entered into a hire agreement for a new car with Leasys. The 
agreement was made up of an initial rental of £5,512.55 and 23 additional monthly rentals of 
£239.68.
Ms M explained that when she took out the agreement, she agreed to an annual mileage 
allowance of 7,000, but that she was unable to fully utilise it due to restrictions that were in 
place as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Ms M said she initially requested an informal 
extension of a year to her agreement so she could use up the allowance, but was told by 
Leasys they could only extend it informally by five months, and a formal extension would be 
more expensive than what she was already paying. Ms M said she agreed to the informal 
extension of five months up to July 2022.
Ms M said she later decided to enquire about a formal extension for 12 months which had 
been quoted as £601.33 each month. However, Ms M said she wasnt happy that the 
extension started from the original agreement end date of February 2022, rather than from 
the end of the informal extension date of July 2022. She said she was also told that her 
actual monthly repayment would increase to £962.98 until July 2022 where it would change 
to £601.33 until July 2023.
Ms M complained to Leasys about their failure to provide her with the full information about 
the charges for extending her lease for a year. Miss M said she wanted to extend her 
agreement to make use of the mileage allowance she hadnt used but wasnt aware that 
shed have to pay more than what had been quoted or that the date of extension would be 
backdated to include the informal extension period.
In March 2022 Leasys provided their final response to Miss Ms complaint. Leasys didnt 
uphold Miss Ms complaint. Leasys explained that their formal extension overrides any 
informal extension, so the formal extension would start from the end of her original 
agreement which was In February 2022. Leasys also explained that their quotes are based 
on current offers, so will likely vary from previous quotes. They also didnt think they should 
be held liable for the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic as it was out of their control. Ms M felt 
their response hadnt addressed that she wasnt given the correct information, the impact it 
would have had if shed gone ahead with it, that she didnt shop around for other lease 
companies because she relied on the information that Leasys had given her, and that shell 
have to return the car without having used the full mileage allowance.
Ms M feels Leasys should allow her to extend the contract by 12months informally for £239 
each month with an additional 7,000 miles allowance attached.
Ms M provided us with a copy of the quotation from Leasys, generated in March 2022, for 
the formal lease extension. This showed the monthly payments would increase from £239.68 
to £601.33 for an additional 17 months rental and 6,000 miles allowance. 
Unhappy with Leasys final response, Ms M brought her complaint to this service for 
investigation. Our investigator gave their view that Leasys had acted fairly in the 
circumstances and so didnt uphold the complaint or ask Leasys to do anything more.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Ms M asked that her complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
To decide if Leasys have acted fairly, Ive considered whether they provided Ms M with the 
correct information about extending the agreement. Ive also considered if Leasys should 
have made some allowances for the impact the Covid-19 pandemic had on Ms Ms usage of 
her car.  
My starting point is that Ms M entered into her agreement with Leasys in January 2020. The 
national Covid-19 lockdown in the United Kingdom came into force in March 2020 and 
remained in place for a number of months. Ive thought about the fact that it was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for businesses and consumers, however I dont think it 
would be reasonable or fair to expect Leasys to have anticipated this situation. Ive also 
considered that when Ms M requested an extension to her agreement, Leasys approved an 
initial five month informal extension for the same amount each month, which seems 
reasonable in the circumstances, as it would allow Ms M to have further use of her car to use 
up the mileage allowance. 
From April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published guidance for businesses in 
relation to motor finance agreements. The guidance was applicable in the exceptional 
circumstances arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic and the impact it had on motor finance 
consumers. However, the guidance related to the support for consumers who were 
adversely impacted financially, by Covid-19. The guidance wasnt in relation to the limitations 
placed on consumers usage of vehicles as a result of the pandemic; so in consideration of 
the information, Im satisfied that Leasys acted reasonably in how they treated Ms M in 
relation to the unused mileage allowance during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ms M provided us with a copy of an agreement reschedule quotation she received from 
Leasys. The quote is dated 9 March 2022 and states the new monthly rental at £601.33 
each month from February 2022 up until July 2023. The quotation also confirmed the current 
agreement which confirms Ms M was paying £239.68 each month from February 2020 until 
July 2022. Leasys havent included a payment schedule of £962.98, however, in an email to 
our investigator Leasys explained that multiple quotes for formal extensions were sent to Ms 
M which shows the current and new agreement details. Leasys explained to us that Ms M did a five-month informal extension, where her rentals 
remained unchanged. However they further explained that if after an informal extension Ms 
M chose to formally extend her agreement, the rental prices would be back dated to the 
original end date of her agreement, 02 February 2022, and Ms M will have to pay the 
difference between the two rental amounts over the informal period.
Leasys sent us copies of emails they sent to Ms M, dated in March and May 2022 where 
they explained how the payments work. They also sent us a copy of an email trail from 
August 2021 before Ms M came to the end of her original agreement date, which explained 
that any formal extensions to her agreement would override any informal one. Leasys 
explained this would be a one-off charge, followed by the new monthly rental amount. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) within their principles says: 
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Having considered the evidence provided along with the guidance from the FCA, Im 
satisfied that Leasys provided Ms M with enough information prior to and during her informal 
extension, to allow her to make an informed choice on whether she wanted to go ahead with 
their proposal or seek out an alternative lease provider.
Ms M says the impact of not being given the full information meant she didnt look for any 
other deals with other companies, however, as I found that Leasys acted fairly, I wont be 
asking them to do anything in regard to this
Ms M says she would have been seriously affected financially had she not queried things 
with Leasys. I acknowledge Ms Ms concerns about this, and although I dont think itd fair to 
hold Leasys liable for circumstances that might have happened, Im also satisfied in the 
circumstances that Leasys had provided Ms M with sufficient information for her to know 
what the repayments would be had she decided to extend her agreement formally. So, I 
wont be asking them to do anything in relation to this part of Ms Ms complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint about LEASYS UK 
LTD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman