DRN-3968707
The complaint
Mr T complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his deferred defined benefit 
(DB) British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
NTM Financial Services Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to NTM.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ts former employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr T was concerned about what the announcement by his former employer meant for the 
security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred 
to NTM which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr T was 44 years old, married and with no financial dependents. He was described 
as being in good health and at the time of the advice he had accrued over 14 years 
of pension benefits with the BSPS. He had ceased working for British Steel in around 
2009 and moved to another employer.
Mr T lived in a home valued at around £130,000 with a mortgage outstanding of 
around £72,000. 
Mr T earned around £35,000. Mrs T earned around £20,000. After expenses they 
had some disposable income left over. They had savings of around £10,000 in a 
deposit account. 
Mr T had since joined a new defined contribution (DC) pension connected to his new 
employer, but we dont know how much was in it at the time the advice was given 
about his BSPS pension. This DC pension is not the subject of any complaint  only 
the BSPS is.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ts BSPS was approximately 
£214,667. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
NTM set out its advice in a suitability report on 22 December 2017. In this it advised Mr T to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. NTM said 
this would allow Mr T to achieve his objectives. Mr T accepted this advice and so transferred 
out. In 2021 Mr T complained to NTM about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, NTM says it hasnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr T had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, NTM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ts best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring to a personal pension 
was in Mr Ts best interests. 
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Introductory issues
Id like to start by referring to the timeline of events. Ive already described above how 
members of the BSPS were given until 22 December 2017 to decide whether or not to join 
the BSPS2. Its not entirely clear whether Mr T ever made that choice. However, if he did so, 
hed have only remained signed up for the forthcoming BSPS2 for a very short time. This is 
because we know that by the actual deadline date of 22 December, NTM had advised him to 
transfer to a personal pension arrangement.
It seems there was then a brief pause, no doubt due to the Christmas break period, because 
we know NTM re-engaged with Mr T again in January 2018 when hed had time to digest 
what was in the suitability report. 
So, theres no documentation, which Ive seen, showing he did make a choice and we know 
that if no choice was made then the member would eventually move to the PPF by default.
However, I can see NTM started the advice process with Mr T in October 2017 which is well 
before the hard deadline of 22 December 2017. A letter of engagement was produced by 
NTM and evidently signed by the parties on 23 November 2017 and a transfer analysis  a 
piece of substantial work which was part of the advice process  was dated by NTM as 1 
December 2017. Again, all these events were several weeks ahead of the deadline of 22 
December 2017.
I think by October 2017 there was clear evidence that NTM had started to advise Mr T. By 
November hed formally engaged the business for advice and a fact-find was produced. 
The suitability report was produced on the actual deadline date. So, I think the advice 
process was firmly underway throughout the autumn of 2017 with NTM committing 
considerable resources to analysing Mr Ts financial situation and giving a firm commitment 
to advising him about whether or not to transfer his DB pension. Therefore, if NTM didnt 
advise Mr T to enter the BSPS2 as, at the very least, a precautionary measure, it certainly 
should have done in my view. It could have told Mr T that he would have still been able to 
transfer away from the BSPS2 later on if he wanted to. He wouldnt have been able to do 
this from the PPF.
I should say that none of this really matters to the actual suitability of the advice. 
Nevertheless, it may matter to the redress that could be due for providing an unsuitable 
recommendation to transfer away from a DB scheme: redress would be measured against 
as if the member would have joined the BSPS2, rather doing nothing and entering the PPF. 
However, in my view, NTM had plenty of time to issue its suitability report ahead of the 
deadline as its advice process commenced in October. 
Financial viability 
NTM referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. In this case, NTM used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the critical yield 
comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. In my view, the various critical yields produced 
by NTM all pointed one way  that Mr T was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
However, before assessing the critical yields in Mr Ts case, I think its important to point out 
that NTM could have taken time to compare the benefits of the BSPS2 with transferring out, 
rather than just using the current BSPS for comparisons. We know BSPS was being 
stopped. Also, many weeks before this advice, BSPS members had been told that if the RAA was approved, they would have a choice  to move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or into the 
PPF with the old scheme. A newsletter had also been put on a microsite that had been set 
up to support BSPS members and more details of the BSPS2 had emerged by the time NTM 
produced its suitability report. 
We know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar complaints to 
this one. And as the existing scheme (BSPS) was clearly no longer an option, using the 
existing scheme rather than the new one, to make comparisons with, wasnt giving Mr T the 
best opportunity to make an informed decision about what to do. I think its also fair to say 
that despite some uncertainty at the time, the BSPS2 critical yields were likely to be between 
the BSPS and PPF yields, but most likely much closer to the existing scheme (BSPS). In my 
view, all this shows the advice probably wasnt quite as comprehensive as it ought to have 
been.
Having said all that, NTM said that the critical yield required to match the benefits at the age 
of 65 in the BSPS, was 6.23% if Mr T took a pension without a tax-free lump sum. If taking a 
tax-free lump sum, the critical yield was 5.16%. However, NTM also calculated the critical 
yield rates for an earlier retirement, at the age of 55. It did this because Mr T had apparently 
expressed a desire to retire early.
However, as Ill explain more about later, NTM seems to have been imprecise about whether 
Mr Ts early retirement aspirations were for the age of 55 or 57  and in my view this 
mattered because it would have altered Mr Ts financial profile considerably. Retirement was 
also still a very long way off for Mr T and so I very much doubt whether retiring sometime in 
his fifties was anything more than something he just aspired to, rather than being part of a 
real plan. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was only 4.5% per year for 20 years to retirement (age 65), which is below all of the critical 
yield figures Ive referred to above. If taking NTMs figures for an early retirement  it quoted 
the age of 55 in the transfer analysis of 1 December 2017  these yields were higher, at 
8.76% and 6.74% respectively. However, the discount rate for a retirement at 55 was only 
3.8% which is considerably lower than the critical yields.
At the time, NTM assessed Mr Ts attitude to risk (ATR) as balanced and it also said the 
critical yields for retiring at 65 were achievable over the long term. But Ive not seen any 
clear evidence of this. 
There would be no point in Mr T transferring away from a DB scheme, from a financial 
perspective, to get benefits of a similar nature to those if he had remained in a DB scheme. 
However in Mr Ts case, I think all the above figures show that achieving the critical yield(s), 
year-on-year, upon transferring out was unlikely. In my view, there were no metrics or 
analysis showing how his transferred funds would comfortably exceed, say 6.23% for 
example, for over 20 years. And if retiring at 55 on a full pension as set out NTLs analysis is 
considered, then his funds would have to exceed 8.76% per year, year-on-year, for 11 years.Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, NTMs own transfer analysis said that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by 
the existing scheme the estimated fund required (also known as the capital value) was 
£451,942. Even to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated 
benefits provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in 
payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £241,634. 
For an earlier retirement, these values went even higher.
To reiterate, these figures are found in NTMs own analysis based on data the regulator 
required businesses to refer to at the time. And because these figures are far above Mr Ts 
CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed 
pension Mr T could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan, rather than a 
similar DB scheme that was on offer here.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, NTM also made mention of the PPF, which it described as 
a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the sponsoring 
employer becomes insolvent. NTM said the critical yields to match the benefits available 
through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the reduced benefits 
available with the PPF and NTM itself implies Mr T wouldnt have wanted to transfer to this 
scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated 
with a personal pension such as the one being recommended to Mr T, would have further 
reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, NTMs own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr T would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS. But as Ive said, NTM should 
have waited and recalculated the comparisons for Mr T when the situation with BSPS2 
became clear  we know this was available at the time. 
Ive also considered some projections NTM used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr T well into retirement. Again, I think most of these 
were based on growth projections which were unrealistic and essentially based on past 
performance. Its also fair to say these were certainly not comparing like-with-like. What NTM 
was showing Mr T were comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of 
a DB scheme. They relied on investment risk, factored in over many years.
Of course, according to NTM, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, NTM said Mr T also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the 
other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
NTM recommended a transfer to a personal pension plan based on what it said were Mr Ts 
wider objectives. I have used all the documents we still have from the advice sessions to 
summarise the following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer away:
NTM said that Mr T wanted to retire early. It said that he wanted to shape and control 
his income and capital for retirement.
NTM said he wanted more control over his pension and benefits in retirement, take higher income levels at certain times and have a higher access to tax-free cash. 
It said the BSPS Trustees had failed in previous years to manage the pension 
liability and this is a concern to you. They also need to adopt investment strategies to 
cope with the liability of providing benefits for all the members. You believe that your 
personal position will be served better with having more control of your own pension 
benefits and working with a financial adviser of your choice. 
NTM said the benefits offered by a pension transfer provided a much higher degree 
of protection and specifically how the benefits will be paid.
I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Retiring early
In my view, there was a disconnect between what NTM said in its transfer analysis about 
early retirement and what was in the suitability report. In the first of these it said Mr T wanted 
to try to retire at the age of 55 and it made some calculations based on a retirement of that 
age. But in the second document it said he wanted to retire at 57; this was replicated in the 
fact-find where the age of 57 was mentioned.
Even though 55 and 57 years old might not seem that far apart, this discrepancy mattered. 
Thats because if we use 55, then there were clearly two years less when income would be 
going into Mr Ts overall pension pot - so retiring at 55 rather than 57 would see less 
contributions to his total. Conversely, hed be potentially drawing upon a pension pot for two 
years longer, if he opted for 55, rather than 57. NTM didnt do any analysis for a retirement 
at 57, so this discrepancy represented a lack of attention to detail on the part of the adviser.
Also, Mr T was still only 44 years old and in good health. In this context, I think NTMs 
adviser saying Mr T had specific plans for when he would retire lacked credibility. For 
example, Mr Ts NRA was still over 20 years away. And I think this demonstrates that 
retirement dates were aspirations on Mr Ts part, rather than being part of any concrete plan. 
In fact, I think it could be reasonably said that Mr T was only just mid-career and both he 
and his wife, who was 42 years old, probably had well over a decade before the potential for 
early retirement could come realistically into focus. 
At the time of the advice they also still had a mortgage to pay down. Its true they had built 
up moderate savings, but the adviser, as our investigator pointed out, said they would need 
more details about Mr Ts DC pension balance with his new employer before a full picture of 
his available pension resources could be worked out. This was never obtained and I think 
the information collected about Mrs Ts retirement provision was also lacking. So, there were 
significant gaps in what the adviser needed to know before considering an early retirement 
as young as 57 years old as being realistic.
This means that when Mr T said hed probably need an income in retirement of around 
£1,500 per month, in my view this was merely speculation or a best guess from him. A 
different figure was shown on the fact-find although this appears to have been related to a 
joint retirement. But like most people, Im sure Mr T may have hoped he might be able to 
retire early, but doing so in his mid-fifties would require substantial financial resources and 
NTM hadnt yet worked out whether these were available. What the adviser knew was the 
size of Mr Ts deferred BSPS pension, but the advice was given without apparently knowing 
much about his other pension provision or that of Mrs T.
So I think early retirement was put down as a stock objective to help substantiate the advice 
to transfer away; it was far too early to say this was a realistic or costed plan. Even if I were to accept that these retirement issues were more than the mere aspirations they clearly were 
at Mr Ts young age, Ive seen nothing showing hed need to transfer away from his DB 
scheme to achieve them. I explain more about this below. But as Ive said, because no 
assessment appears to have been made about Mr Ts other pension or Mrs Ts resources, 
NTM simply didnt demonstrate whether or how he was falling below his apparent retirement 
income preference of around £1,500 per month by remaining in a DB scheme  such as 
moving to BSPS2. In short, NTM demonstrated no rationale for transferring to a personal 
plan based on a need to achieve his required income in retirement.
So, I think its important to revert back to Mr Ts comparatively young age by pension 
standards. With anything between 13  20 years still left to when hed be actually 
contemplating retiring, theres simply no way that this should have been a major influence in 
him deciding to irreversibly move away from a DB scheme. The adviser should not have 
recommended a transfer on this basis.
Flexibility and control
NTM also implied to Mr T that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and 
then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can 
be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because 
the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But NTM should have 
been telling Mr T at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal 
pension, potentially from the age of around 57 in his case, also came with consequences in 
that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
In a similar vein, NTM also said hed be able to select the timing and type of benefits taken 
at retirement and also vary his retirement income.  However, I cant see that Mr T required 
flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. In any event, flexibility was poorly 
defined by NTM. I therefore think this was also no more than a stock objective used to help 
justify the recommendation to transfer out to a personal plan. For example, Ive seen nothing 
that showed Mr T required changing how his retirement benefits ought to be paid. He 
already apparently had a new and more flexible DC pension with his existing job which hed 
started some eight years previously in 2009. Theres a strong implication from the advice 
related documentation that his DC pension was being contributed towards by Mr T and 
possibly his employer. We dont have information about how much value this had reached 
but its reasonable to say it still had up to 20 years left to run (13 years if he did eventually 
retire at 57). So, I think this secondary pension could have been in force and receiving 
contributions for between 22 and 29 years by retirement and it would have afforded Mr T any 
flexibility he might have needed in the years ahead.
All this means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr T wouldnt want to continue membership 
of a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, 
I think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr T could have been in an 
agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of considerable 
value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring 
which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation 
guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On 
the other hand, hed have also built up a substantial DC scheme over a long period of time. 
Therefore, if Mr T ever found he needed flexibility, then hed be able to use the latter, rather 
than transferring away from the former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr T had either the capacity or true desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr T was being offered the opportunity to transfer to the 
new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. 
As Ive described, the adviser recorded some comments about the trustees stewardship of 
the scheme in the suitability report. However, these arent really clear in my view and they 
seem emotive; they affectively suggest they had failed to manage the pensions strategies 
correctly in the past and that transferring away would be the only fix. However, as well as 
lacking any evidence of this, Mr T himself appeared to have had limited experience of these 
types of money market investments. Despite having £10,000 in savings none of this was 
invested in stock-related funds. He also said he had quite a lot of disposable income each 
month and none of this was being used to invest in funds. I therefore think he would have 
found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over £214,000 of transferred 
funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr T would have 
required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him money which his 
DB scheme didnt require from him.
NTM itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. In my view, this showed 
a reasonable income when assessed against what Mr T had speculated that he might need 
in retirement. Of course, Ive already explained the unpredictability of assessing retirement 
needs so far in advance and at such a young age. However, Mr T speculated that he might 
have needed around £18,000 per year in todays money.
NTMs analysis said that if retiring at 65, Mr T could expect an annual pension of around 
£12,497. Of course, it failed to calculate the pension at 57 at all, despite this being recorded 
on the suitability report as an age hed apparently like to retire at. And it certainly isnt 
unreasonable to say that by either of these ages, Mr T could have built up a substantial DC 
fund in his other pension. So, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Ts pension 
entitlements wouldnt have met his anticipated financial requirements upon retiring, without 
any need to transfer from a DB scheme. NTM simply didnt make out any case for this.
These were BSPS figures, but that doesnt really matter because current members were 
being given similar estimates about the new scheme (BSPS2) at around the very time this 
advice was being sought. I dont think NTM adequately explained these things to Mr T as its 
advice simply discounted him transferring to the new scheme to obtain flexibility which was 
poorly defined and which he didnt need.
I therefore think Mr Ts circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to 
him still being able to retire earlier than 65 if he felt he really needed to  there would have 
been an actuarial reduction involved, depending on his age at the time. But because he also 
had a second DC pension, this supported that strategy in my view. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are also an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would 
like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain 
benefits payable to a spouse and children if Mr T died. Mr T was married although he didnt 
apparently have dependent children and so the adviser told Mr T that hed be able to pass 
on the value of a personal pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated.
I think there was clearly a discussion about this because NTM said of the personal plan it 
was recommending, there was a much higher degree of protection and specifically how the 
benefits will be paid. So, the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension, 
potentially payable tax-free, were probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr T. 
But I think this was misleading. Firstly, the pension available to Mrs T under the BSPS2 if Mr T predeceased her was 
certainly worth having. It would have effectively paid half his pension to Mrs T for the rest of 
her life and there were valuable guarantees and inflation protections. Ive noted it was 
recorded that Mr T would rather see capital amounts being paid to his wife if he died rather 
than a steady income. But there was no explanation as to why this was. Mrs T didnt appear 
to have a large income of her own and there was only one apparent need for a large cash 
lump-sum. This was to pay off their mortgage if Mr T died. But whilst this may sound a good 
idea, again I return to the likelihood of Mr T passing away anytime soon when he was only 
44 and healthy. Its also my understanding their mortgage was already being duly paid down 
in accordance with the rules and so it would likely be paid off completely ahead of their 
retirement ages. It also seems to me that the current payments were well within their reach. 
To be clear then, no explanation was really made as to why Mrs T would need cash rather 
than an ongoing and guaranteed pension for the rest of her life. In any event, if Mr T had 
joined the BSPS2 and passed away before retiring, Mrs T would have received a modest 
lump-sum comprising of all his contributions.
Secondly, whilst I appreciate tax-free death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T 
might have thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because 
of this, the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
Mr T certainly had a reasonable BSPS pension, but this would only afford him a reasonable 
standard of living when he eventually chose to give up work: this wasnt a very large 
pension. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think 
NTM explored to what extent Mr T was prepared to accept a different retirement income in 
exchange for different death benefits. I say again, Mr T was only 44. So, an obvious 
drawback with a personal plans death benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone 
 may be substantially reduced as the pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement 
income. To this end, if Mr T had lived a long life there could be nothing left at all in his 
personal pension plan to pass on to anyone. 
Further to this, although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still 
so young, theres no real doubt that retiring in his fifties was at least mentioned  NTMs 
defence of this complaint is effectively predicated on this. The adviser should have therefore 
additionally known that a healthy male retiring at 55 or 57 would likely have many years 
ahead in which he would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to 
pass on to someone when he got to around life expectancy age.
I also cant see the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case although I think 
Mr T was given some whole life insurance quotes; these were expensive. But at 44 years 
old, a term life insurance policy may have still been a reasonably affordable product if Mr T 
really did want to leave a legacy for Mrs T. But more so, it doesnt appear that NTM took into 
account the fact that Mr T could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his 
other DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr T already had plenty of options ensuring part of his 
pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Ts situation. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr T, like many employees of his former company, was concerned about his 
pension. His former employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the 
scheme and NTM said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the 
PPF and NTM said he could have more control over his pension fund. So, its quite possible that Mr T was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his former employer and a negative perception of the PPF. 
However, it was NTMs obligation to give Mr T an objective picture and recommend what 
was in his best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that NTM should 
have reassured Mr T that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr T through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to NTMs recommendation to Mr T to transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments 
NTM recommended that Mr T invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr T and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had been 
given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr T was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think NTM ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in 
retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ts best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when hed had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr T still had 
many more years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr T would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think NTM should have advised Mr T to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr T would have transferred 
to a personal pension in any event. I accept that NTM disclosed some of the risks of transferring to Mr T, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately it 
advised Mr T to transfer out, and I think Mr T relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr T would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against NTMs advice. I say this because Mr T wasnt an experienced investor and this 
pension probably accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if NTM had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ts concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if NTM had explained Mr T was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think NTM should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for NTMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would have 
most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 
65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. NTM should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
NTM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr T and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, NTM should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr T accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, NTM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Our investigator recommended that NTM should pay Mr T for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would likely have had on 
Mr T in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time probably represented most of 
his retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits would 
have impacted heavily upon Mr T. So I agree the recommended payment of £300 for 
distress and inconvenience. NTM should pay Mr T this amount in addition to the redress Ive 
set out above.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct NTM 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 Michael Campbell
Ombudsman