DRN-2584222
The complaint
Miss M complains that she was misled about the terms of a hire purchase agreement she 
entered into with Black Horse Limited.
What happened
Miss M has explained that she was looking to obtain a new car and went to a dealership to 
discuss her options. There were discussions about what she could afford, including 
discussions about whether her mother could provide a guarantee. She paid a £500 deposit 
and later collected her car  a vehicle which was a little over two years old and priced at just 
under £18,000.
Miss M says that it was only later, when monthly payments of over £250 were taken from her 
bank account, that she realised she had entered into a finance agreement and that, if she 
wanted to keep the car, she would have to pay over £8,000 at the end of four years.
Miss M complained to Black Horse. She said, in summary:
she hadnt signed any finance agreement;
she was not aware of the nature of the agreement;
the car was over-priced;
the monthly payment was too high;
the part-exchange value for her old car was wrong;
her mother was supposed to be a guarantor;
the £500 deposit she paid was not applied to the finance as it should have been; and
she was not given a free service plan or insurance as had been discussed.
Black Horse responded to say that Miss M had had an opportunity to raise any concerns 
both before and after the finance agreement had been made. The dealership had explained 
that it had not been necessary for her mother to act as a guarantor and that the £500 Miss M 
had paid was used to buy insurance products outside the finance agreement. The 
agreement had been signed electronically and so there was no need for Miss M physically to 
sign her name. 
Miss M referred the matter to this service, but our investigator did not consider that Black 
Horse had treated Miss M unfairly. Miss M did not agree and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall deal first of all with Miss Ms comment that she did not sign the finance agreement, 
because that issue is key to my other findings.
The copy of the agreement I have seen does not include a wet signature. That is, it was not 
signed by Miss M writing her signature on a paper version of the document. It does however 
include her printed name and the date and time (to the second) it was added. I am satisfied 
therefore that it was signed electronically; as the investigator explained, that process would 
have required Miss M to identify herself securely (to avoid the possibility of fraud or forgery) 
before indicating her agreement to the terms. An electronic signature in circumstances such 
as this is valid and binding in the same way a wet signature would be. 
Generally, a person who signs a legal agreement, including a finance contract, is bound by 
its terms. Thats true whether or not they actually read the agreement, and I note that the 
agreement here said that Miss M should only sign it if she agreed to be bound by it. Only in 
exceptional circumstances would a signatory not be bound by the agreement they signed, 
and I approach Miss Ms complaint with that in mind. 
Miss M says she was not aware of the nature of the agreement. It was however headed, in 
capital letters, Hire Purchase Agreement Regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Above that, also in capitals but less prominently, were the words Personal Contract 
Purchase  a type of hire purchase arrangement. I dont believe I can fairly conclude that 
the nature of the agreement was kept from Miss M or that she was misled about it.
The agreement said that the cash price of the car was £17,990. I accept that Miss M may 
have discussed different cars and different prices with the dealership, but the price of the car 
she drove away was clearly set out. 
Under the heading Your Repayments the agreement set out the monthly repayments which 
Miss M would need to make, including a final payment of £8,167. The agreement explained 
elsewhere that Miss M could opt to return the car instead of making the final payment. In 
saying that the payments were too high, I understand Miss M to be saying that they were 
higher than she expected, not that she could not afford them; I am not aware that she has 
missed any payments.
The part-exchange value of Miss Ms old car is not listed in the hire purchase agreement, 
although it does record a deposit of £3,251. The agreement also recorded the new cars 
price and the amount of credit Miss M was taking out. If she thought the figures were not 
correct because she was not receiving enough for her old car, I think she had the opportunity 
to raise that at the time. 
I dont believe that there is any dispute that initial discussions included conversations about 
the possibility of Miss Ms mother being a guarantor. In the event, however, the dealership 
and Black Horse concluded that was not necessary. I believe Miss M must have known that 
her mother had not been asked to enter into a guarantee; her mother would certainly have 
known that.
Miss M says that the £500 deposit she paid to the dealership should have been credited 
against the price of the car. I think however it was clear that it was not. The dealership says 
it was used to pay for insurance outside the finance arrangements with Black Horse. Since 
that issue did not form part of the finance arrangements, I do not believe I can properly hold 
Black Horse responsible for it and make no further comment.  
Similarly, Miss M says that the dealership said it would provide a service plan and insurance 
as part of its deal with Miss M. It may well have done so, but I make no findings about that. 
Whether or not it did, however, that is a matter between Miss M and the dealership and 
cannot form part of this complaint about the finance arrangements between Miss M and Black Horse.              
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Black Horse Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman