DRN-2324228
The complaint
Mrs W doesnt think its fair that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has used her 
payment protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which she says 
she was released when her bankruptcy was discharged. 
What happened
Mrs W had taken out a PPI policy in 2001 associated with her credit card. Recently Mrs W 
complained to RBS that the PPI was mis-sold. RBS wrote to Mrs W on 17 April 2020 saying 
it agreed the PPI was mis-sold and it offered to pay her some compensation. 
In 2004 Mrs W was declared bankrupt and the Insolvency Service (IS) was then responsible 
for dealing with Mrs Ws estate for this bankruptcy. Mrs W was discharged from the 
bankruptcy in 2005. 
Mrs W still owed RBS £1,667.72 on the credit card account when she was discharged from 
the bankruptcy. The compensation amount RBS offered for the mis-sold PPI that related to 
the credit card was £947.38 after tax. So, RBS has kept Mrs Ws PPI compensation to 
reduce this debt on the credit card.
RBS also contacted the IS about the PPI compensation in view of its involvement in the 
bankruptcy. The IS said it did have an interest and applied to be joined to the complaint. The 
IS also said that RBS could use the mis-sale compensation to set off against the debt on the 
credit card account and if there was any surplus then that should be paid to the IS, not 
Mrs W.
Mrs W didnt think this was fair and said that the PPI compensation should be paid directly to 
her. So she brought her complaint to this service.
Mrs W says that the debt she owed to RBS on her credit card is statute barred; also that 
under the Insolvency Act when a bankrupt is discharged, this releases her from all the 
bankruptcy debts; and she has also referred to some case law that she says supports her 
arguments that the payment should be made directly to her. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought it was fair for RBS to use the 
compensation to reduce the debt on Mrs Ws credit card that she never repaid, and this was 
in line with what the IS had indicated. Mrs W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to 
look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I am only considering the PPI sold alongside the credit card account Mr W 
had with RBS. RBS has agreed to uphold Mrs Ws complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and 
offered compensation to settle the complaint. So in this decision Im not looking at how the 
PPI came to be sold. I am only considering whether what RBS has done with the 
compensation is fair.
Id expect that when a business has mis-sold PPI, it puts things right by putting the 
consumer as far as possible in the position they wouldve been in if they hadnt taken out the 
PPI. Id expect a business to calculate how much was paid in premiums and interest for the 
costs of the PPI. If the consumer was out of pocket as theyd repaid some or all of the costs 
of the PPI, then the business should also pay some compensatory interest.
RBS has used this approach and worked out that the compensation due for the mis-sold PPI 
is £947.38. This includes all the PPI costs and some compensatory interest. Neither Mrs W 
nor the IS has said the amount offered is wrong. But Mrs W says RBS cannot use the 
compensation to reduce the debt it says she still owes on the credit card after the end of her 
bankruptcy.
When a bankruptcy occurs the IS has the power to collect and realise all assets that Mrs W 
may have and distribute the estate among creditors. Compensation for a mis-sold PPI policy 
is an asset of an estate and would vest in the official receiver. So in this case the IS has 
indicated it has an interest, even though the bankruptcy has been discharged. 
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the
case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to 
take
into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the
relevant time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available
evidence and the wider circumstances.
The relevant law in this case is English law.
Mrs W has referred to some cases that occurred in the Scottish Courts. One case was 
brought to the Supreme Court in England by the business to ask for permission to appeal 
and this was refused. These cases also relate to Protected Trust Deeds, not bankruptcy 
(called sequestration in Scotland) so may not be directly relevant to the case before me, 
though similar principles about the cases may exist I law. 
That said, I must apply an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances
of this case. And I think its fair for RBS to use Mrs Ws PPI compensation to reduce the 
money owed and left unpaid when her trust deed came to an end.
When two people  or as here a person and a business  owe each other money, it seems 
only fair that they each pay what they owe. Mrs W owes RBS £1,667.72 for the debt on her credit card that she never paid. RBS owes Mrs W £947.38 as compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI. Both these debts relate to the same credit card account. 
We usually say a business can use a consumers compensation to reduce their debts if the 
debt is on the account that PPI was sold alongside. Here the PPI was sold alongside a credit 
card and when Mrs W got into financial difficulties, she stopped making payments to her 
credit card. So, I think RBS can use the compensation to reduce the debt as the PPI was 
directly connected to the account which had the debt.
Mrs W has chosen to revisit something that happened before she entered her bankruptcy  
the sale of the PPI policy on her credit card in 2001. I think its only fair that I take into 
account whats happened since. Mrs W owed RBS £1,667.72 for the credit card debt after 
her bankruptcy was discharged. Her discharge relieved her of liability, but it didnt extinguish 
the underlying debt. I simply dont see how it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Mrs W just over 
£900, when she owed and didnt repay more than £1,600 to RBS.
When Mrs W was made bankrupt, the debts she owed werent cancelled. And they werent 
cancelled when she was discharged in 2005  but by law she couldnt be chased for the 
debts after her bankruptcy ended. So the debt Mrs W had with RBS still existed but RBS 
could never actively take action to recover any of the debt that was never repaid. 
Some of that debt Mrs W owed to RBS would have been made up of the costs for the PPI 
that were included in the account. By setting the PPI compensation against the amount that 
Mrs W never paid back for her borrowings on the credit card, RBS is removing anything that 
was for the costs of the PPI. 
Mrs W has referred to the Statute of Limitations and says this makes the debt she owes RBS 
statute barred. This legislation means that a business cannot actively take proceedings to 
recover a debt after a period of time. But RBS hasnt actively taken any action against Mrs W 
to try to recover the outstanding amount. 
Mrs W took action to recover the PPI costs charged between 2001 and 2004 from RBS. The 
compensation owed for the mis-sold PPI is a debt RBS owes Mrs W and is directly related to 
the debt she owed RBS on that same card account. 
Both debts relate to the same account and part of the debt Mrs W owed to RBS would have 
been for some of the PPI costs she never actually paid. So it is fair to set one debt against 
the other in these circumstances.
Having considered all the facts, I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to 
reduce the amount Mrs W borrowed and didnt repay on her credit card account. Just 
because Mrs W was made bankrupt and couldnt be legally pursued for the debt when that 
bankruptcy ended, doesnt mean the debt was settled or no longer existed. I think it would be 
unfair to tell RBS to pay Mrs W compensation if she doesnt now have to repay the money 
which she borrowed and was still outstanding.
So I think what RBS has done with the compensation is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I think Royal Bank of Scotland Plcs offer is fair and what it 
has done with the compensation is also fair, so I am not upholding this complaint that 
compensation should be paid directly to Mrs W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask The Insolvency Service and Ms W to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman