DRN-3581826
The complaint
Miss C complained about The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited s 
service when she changed address on her motor insurance policy.  
What happened
When Miss C was about to move to her husbands address, she phoned The National 
Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFUM) to ask them to change her policy 
to that address. NFUM didnt tell her then that this change would increase her annual 
premium by about £491 and that NFUM would collect that from her account by direct debits. 
She didnt find out about this until later. 
NFUM upheld her complaint and offered her £50 in compensation, but Miss C didnt think 
this was enough. The investigator didnt recommend that her complaint be upheld. He 
thought that NFUM hadnt acted unfairly. Miss C didnt agree and so Ive been asked to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NFUM increased her premium because of the new address. As the investigator explained,  
address is a fundamental factor affecting the risk that car insurers take when insuring 
someone. NFUM have shown us that the premium increase was justified according to their 
underwriting criteria, and thats a commercial decision with which we dont normally interfere. 
Its not in dispute that NFUM didnt tell Miss C on the phone about the premium increase. 
They apologised for this and offered her the compensation. But they said they did promptly 
on 3 September send her updated policy information showing the details of the increased 
payment because of her address change. They sent this to Miss C s new address, as she 
requested. 
Ive looked at these documents and they do make clear about the overall additional premium  
payment, which NFUM collected in instalments. NFUM said if she had checked the 
documents she could have contacted them about it, or that she could have been alerted to it 
if she had checked her bank account. 
But Miss C said she didnt receive these documents, and shed set up her finances in such a 
way that she didnt need to check her direct debits. So she didnt realise for several months 
that NFUM had taken the money from her account, until her bank told her she had 
insufficient funds. She said the direct debits that NFUM took were a large and unexpected 
increase. She also said that if NFUM had told her on the phone that her premium would 
increase by that much she could have found cheaper alternative insurance, or would not 
have moved address, as she only intended to be there temporarily. 
But, as she said she was selling her house to move to her husbands address before they 
both moved elsewhere, Im not persuaded that NFUM telling her the premium increase on 
the phone would have made her decide not to move address then. She phoned NFUM to 
change her policy address in early September and wanted it to start from the following 
Sunday. She kept the policy on at that address until about late December. So she received 
the benefit of insurance there for several months. And Ive not seen anything to show that 
she definitely would have been able to find cheaper alternative insurance with that address.
In any event, Miss C would have been aware of the premium increase if she had read and 
checked the updated documents that NFUM sent her. Ive no reason to disbelieve that Miss 
C didnt receive them. However NFUM have shown us their records to show that they sent 
this to her requested new address. So Im satisfied that NFUM did what they should have 
then. If Miss C didnt receive the updated documentation, thats not due to any mistake on 
their part.
Miss C says it was a difficult time for her personally with moving home and other personal 
events, and I do see that. But I have to decide whether NFUMs mistake in not telling her the 
premium over the phone caused Miss C loss. I dont think that it did. NFUM promptly told her 
the premium increase by letter, which asked her to contact them if anything wasnt correct. 
So at that point NFUMs phone mistake was overcome. If Miss C didnt agree to the premium 
increase, at that point she could have done something different. As Ive said, it wasnt 
NFUMs fault if Miss C didnt receive that and so they cant be held responsible for that. I 
think that the compensation they offered for their phone mistake is reasonable. This means 
that I dont require NFUM to do anything else.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
