DRN-3185330
The complaint
Miss H, as trustee of the PH Trust, complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly 
reduced the amount it paid following a death claim made on the late Mr Hs term assurance 
policy. 
Miss H has been supported by her mother in bringing this complaint, but for ease Ill only 
refer to Miss H throughout this decision.
Any reference to Aviva in this decision includes the actions of the businesses subsequently 
acquired by it.  
What happened
Miss Hs father, Mr H, applied for a level term assurance policy (the policy) with a company 
that has since been acquired by Aviva on 10 October 2013. As part of the application 
process Mr H was asked a series of questions about his health and lifestyle, including 
whether hed smoked or used nicotine products in the 12 months before application. 
The policy offered a £200,000 sum assured, payable if Mr H died during the policy term, for 
a monthly premium of £50.96. Cover started on 23 October 2013.
Mr H sadly died in November 2020 and a claim was made under the policy on behalf of the 
PH Trust. 
Having assessed the claim, Aviva considered Mr H had failed to disclose that he had 
smoked or used nicotine products in the 12 months before he applied for cover. It said had it 
known this it would have charged Mr H £118.82 a month. So, while it accepted the claim, it 
paid a reduced sum assured of £85,777. It explained that as Mr H had paid a monthly 
premium of £50.96, hed only paid 42.888% of the actual premium due. It therefore reduced 
the sum assured by the same proportion.  
Miss H complained to the Financial Ombudsman. She didnt agree Mr H has answered the 
smoking question incorrectly. From her knowledge, Mr H stopped smoking in 1993 when she 
was born. She believed Aviva had misinterpreted the medical evidence. She considered the 
GP records noted Mr Hs history of smoking, not his actually smoking status at the time the 
records were made. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He thought Aviva had 
sufficiently demonstrated that Mr H had most likely been smoking in the 12 months before 
applying for cover and should therefore have disclosed this when applying for cover. He was 
persuaded that had Mr H disclosed his smoker status this would have resulted in him being 
charged significantly higher premiums. In the circumstances, our Investigator was satisfied 
that Aviva was entitled to proportionately reduce the sum payable as it had done. 
Miss H disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans final decision. She maintained that Mr H 
had not answered the question incorrectly and noted the evidence Aviva was seeking to rely 
on fell outside the 12-month timeframe the question asked about. She also suggested the 
smoking cessation advice Mr H received may have been for her benefit, as she didnt want 
to attend her own GP for advice. She considered Aviva had therefore acted unfairly by 
applying smoker rates purely on the basis that her father was an ex-smoker, rather than on 
the basis that hed answered the question incorrectly.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to offer my sincere condolences to Miss H and her family for the tragic loss of 
her father. Its clear that the family has been through an incredibly traumatic time. And I can 
see that pursuing this claim has been particularly difficult and upsetting for them all. 
Having carefully considered everything weve been provided, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know this wont be the answer Miss H or her family hoped for. Id like to reassure 
Miss H that I havent taken this decision lightly. I realise that the outcome of this complaint 
could have potentially life-changing consequences for her. But I cannot consider a complaint 
on compassionate grounds. I must consider whether Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably 
in light of all the circumstances and evidence. While I dont want to add to Miss Hs distress, 
I cant say Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering
into a consumer insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or 
misleading). If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions accurately 
and makes a qualifying misrepresentation as a result, CIDRA sets out the remedies 
available to the insurer. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation
Was there a misrepresentation?
Mr H completed an application with a financial adviser on 10 October 2013. By completing 
the application Mr H also agreed to the declaration which stated:
 I declare that all my answers to the questions in this document are true and complete in 
every particular. 
I acknowledge that a failure to fully and accurately respond to questions [Aviva] ask me with 
regard to my application and failure to notify [Aviva] of any changes to those responses 
before any scheme commences may result in non payment of a claim and in certain specific 
circumstances (as previously explained), cover under the policy being cancelled.
Aviva sent Mr H a copy of his application on 23 October 2013 and he was asked to check his 
answers and make any necessary corrections. This form also contained a warning about the 
importance of answering all questions truthfully and accurately. It warned:
If you do not respond fully and accurately to the questions asked by [Aviva] regarding your
application and if you do not inform us of any changes to your responses to the questions 
asked by [Aviva] regarding your application before the policy goes on risk, this may result in non payment of the benefit or cancellation of your cover in certain specific circumstances 
(please see the Member's Handbook for further information).
The Members Handbook further explained that if policyholder made a careless 
misrepresentation it could amend the terms of your policy to be consistent with what the 
terms shouldve been based on the correct information.
As such, Im satisfied Aviva did enough to draw Mr Hs attention to the importance of 
answering all questions truthfully and accurately, and the potential consequences if he didnt 
do so. 
As part of the application Mr H was asked: 
Have you smoked or used any form of tobacco or nicotine product in the last 12 months?
Mr H answered no. Aviva considers Mr Hs answer was incorrect and has referred to 
references within his medical records that it considers show he was smoking in the 12 
months before application. The relevant medical records show: 
 
19-Jul-2012 [] 
History Cigarette smoker 1/day. Smoking cessation advice. 
Trying to give up smoking. Using electronic cigarettes.
25-Oct-2013 []
Additional [] Cigarette smoker 1/day. Trying to give up smoking. [] 
Comment Has smoked for 'years' very vague. Says stopped when had hip replacement 
but then said smokes about a pack a month. 
Booked for spirometry
Smoking cessation advice.
I accept that the available evidence doesnt show categorically that Mr H smoked or used 
nicotine products in the 12 months before cover started. But Ive had to consider whether I 
think Aviva reasonably concluded that Mr H had most likely smoked during the period 
10 October 2012 (12 months prior to completing the application) to 23 October 2013 (the 
date the policy started).  
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ive given careful consideration to Miss Hs suggestion that the medical records relate purely 
to Mr Hs past smoker history (i.e. prior to him giving up in 1993), rather than his actual 
habits in 2012 and 2013. But I dont think thats plausible given the way the notes are 
recorded. 
In July 2012 it was noted that Mr H was trying to give up smoking and had tried electronic 
cigarettes. The note is clearly written in the present tense, and so Im satisfied that Mr H was 
smoking in July 2012. While it's clear Mr H wanted to give up smoking, its not clear that hed 
yet been able to do so. 
The record from October 2013 is more significant, particularly as it occurs only two days 
after the policy started. It refers to Mr H smoking for years. It also notes that he stopped 
smoking when he had his hip replacement. I can see from the application form Mr H 
completed that he had his hip replaced in August 2013. It would therefore seem most likely that Mr H was smoking for some time prior to August 2013, and then started again sometime 
after. As Mr H was able to report smoking a pack a month, I think its most likely Mr H was 
smoking for at least a month before the appointment. 
Ive also considered Miss Hs suggestions that Mr Hs records actually related to advice he 
sought on her behalf. But again, I dont think this is particularly plausible or backed up by the 
evidence. I think the reference to Mr Hs smoking habits around the time of his hip 
replacement make it much more likely that the records related to his own habits. 
When considered as a whole, I think the medical records provide compelling evidence that 
Mr H was most likely smoking in the 12 months before applying for cover. 
Given the clear question Aviva asked about Mr Hs smoking habits, I think it reasonably 
concluded that he had failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.  
Was the misrepresentation qualifying and if so, what would Aviva have done differently?
Aviva has explained that had Mr H declared that hed smoked in the 12 months before 
applying for cover it would have applied smoker rates to his premium. This is consistent 
across the industry and Im satisfied that Mr H would have been charged a significantly 
increased premium if it was known hed smoked in the year before applying for cover. 
Based on the evidence presented, Im satisfied that Mr Hs misrepresentation was 
qualifying, as it had an impact on the cover Aviva was prepared to offer, because it should 
have been significantly more expensive. 
CIDRA sets outs the remedies an insurer can take when a qualifying misrepresentation has 
occurred. And the remedy depends on how the misrepresentation is classified - either 
deliberate or reckless or careless. Aviva classified Mr Hs misrepresentations as 
careless. And I think this is reasonable. 
Under CIDRA, when its found a consumer has made a careless misrepresentation, the 
insurer can take whatever action it would have taken if the correct answers had been given 
at the point of application. It further sets out that if the insurer would have entered into the 
contract but would have charged a higher premium, the insurer may reduce proportionately 
the amount to be paid on a claim. Im satisfied this is what Aviva has done. It has also 
demonstrated by way of the calculation contained in its decision letter that it has done this in 
line with method set out in CIDRA. 
Overall, while I appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome for Miss H, I cant say Aviva 
has treated her unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H as trustee 
of the P H Trust to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman