DRN-3961538
The complaint
Mr M complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGICE) 
deducting his policy excess from his policy limit when dealing with his pet insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr M took out pet insurance with CGICE with a policy limit of £4,000. Mr M made a claim for 
£6,135 but CGICE deducted his policy excess of £90 from the policy limit rather than the 
claim amount  which meant he received a settlement amount of £3,910. Mr M complained 
as he felt it was unfair for him not to receive the policy limit of £4,000. CGICE responded and 
explained the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy sets out the excess is deducted from the 
benefit limit. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mr M and CGICE on 13 January 2023. In my provisional decision I said as follows:      
Theres no dispute that the policy limit is £4,000 and Mr Ms claim exceeds this limit 
 and Mr M accepts £4,000 is the maximum amount hes able to claim. The issue 
relates to Mr M receiving £3,910 after the excess was deducted and the point of 
dispute between the parties is whether this is fair. 
My starting point is Mr Ms policy booklet. This sets out the terms and conditions and 
says, for the type of cover taken out by Mr M, You can claim per Condition up to the 
Benefit Limit of £4,000 in each and every Policy Period of Insurance (less the 
applicable Excess). The terms and conditions also set out what isnt covered, and 
says, any amount that is more than the benefit limit and also the excess. 
The policy schedule shows the excess for the claim being made by Mr M is £90. 
Under a section headed, Veterinary Fees and sub-heading What is not insured? it 
lists specific exclusions which apply to this cover and includes the excess.  
From looking at the policy booklet, I accept it explains the excess will be deducted 
from the £4,000 benefit limit. This is what CGICE have done in Mr Ms case by 
paying Mr M £3,910. So, Im aware CGICE have acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ms policy. 
But I also need to think about whether Mr M has been treated fairly here. And, I dont 
think he has. I say this because I think deducting the excess from the benefit limit is 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
The policy booklet, Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and policy 
schedule all refer to the benefit limit for veterinary fees being £4,000. 
Given this, I think its reasonable that Mr M would think he could receive £4,000 as a 
maximum, if he needed to make a claim. But because of the way CGICE are 
deducting the policy excess, its never actually possible to receive that amount. So, I 
think its misleading to tell Mr M this is the limit payable under the policy. Mr M 
wouldnt ever have been able to claim more than £3,910. 
CGICE have said Mr M purchased his policy online and he was provided with his 
policy documents prior to the completion of the sale. Theyve said, to continue with 
the purchase, Mr M wouldve had to have ticked a box to confirm he had read and 
accepted the terms and conditions. And, following the sale, he was given a 14-day 
cooling off period where he was able to cancel his cover if he felt it didnt meet his 
needs. CGICE say theyre therefore satisfied theyve provided sufficient information 
allowing Mr M to make an informed decision regarding cover. CGICE have referred 
to the policy documents which were all made available to Mr M and say it was made 
clear to Mr M that the excess would be deducted from the benefit limit. So, Ive 
thought about this too. And, I dont think the policy documents make the above 
sufficiently clear. I dont think CGICE have really explained to Mr M in any of the 
documents that the most he could claim was £3,910.    
The policy schedule provided to Mr M did tell him the excess was £90, but it didnt 
explain this would be deducted from the benefit limit. Information provided to 
customers must be clear, fair and not misleading. And I would expect an insurer to 
highlight key terms of the policy. 
In the policy booklet and IPID, CGICE did explain that Mr M can claim up to the 
benefit limit of £4,000 less the excess, and they also explain the excess isnt 
covered. But Im not satisfied putting these key details in the policy booklet and IPID 
was clear enough to highlight the true limit of the policy. Id have expected such a key 
element of the policy, which effectively reduces the settlement Mr M can receive 
under the policy, to have been detailed in a prominent place  such as the policy 
schedule, and explained in such a way that a customer would be able to sufficiently 
understand what this would mean for any claim they made in practice  it would need 
to be really clear to them that, even though the policy limit is said to be £4,000, they 
will never actually be able to claim that amount. 
Im further persuaded the information provided wasnt clear because the policy 
booklet defines excess as the amount payable by You towards each and every 
claim [My emphasis] It defines benefit limit as the maximum amount that can 
be claimed [my emphasis] And, I think its also important to add that the policy 
schedule says, We will pay [my emphasis] up to the maximum Benefit Limits as 
shown for: and then goes on to refer to the benefit limit for veterinary fees being 
£4,000. So, looking into these in more detail, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr 
M to believe the excess would be deducted from the total amount of his claim and not 
the benefit limit  and any actual payment made to Mr M would be limited to £4,000. 
So, given the above reasoning, I dont think the settlement offer CGICE provided Mr 
M was fair. Instead, I think it would be reasonable for CGICE to provide settlement up 
to the £4,000 benefit limit they detailed could be claimed. As CGICE have already 
paid Mr M £3,910, I intend on requiring them to pay a further £90. Because Mr M has 
been without the £90 he should have reasonably received, I also intend on requiring 
CGICE to pay 8% interest per year simple on the £90, from the date Mr M paid, until 
the date his claim is settled. 
So, subject to any further comments from Mr M or CGICE, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint and require CGICE to refund the £90 to Mr M. 
Following my provisional decision, Mr M hasnt responded. CGICE have responded and 
explain the policy doesnt have a £4,000 policy limit, but instead this is a lifetime policy which 
pays out up to the policy limit of £4,000 per condition, per policy year, excluding the excess. 
They give the example, if a pet suffers with another condition alongside one the policyholder 
has already claimed for, CGICE would cover up to another £4,000 minus the excess. CGICE say its common practice to pay an excess on any insurance policy and this is clearly 
detailed in the documents sent to Mr M. CGICE also refer to the information Mr M will have 
seen during the sales journey which highlights the excess payable. CGICE also say they 
clearly communicate in all their literature and on the sales journey, if a policyholder is 
unclear on any aspects of the policy, it would be their responsibility to query the terms and 
conditions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
I dont disagree the policy applies a separate limit in the event a policyholder makes a claim 
for an unrelated condition to one that has already been claimed for. CGICE say in such 
circumstances there would be cover up to another £4,000 minus the excess. But, this 
doesnt resolve the issue which Ive described in my provisional decision. If a policyholder 
were to make a separate claim for veterinary fees in excess of this limit, they would again 
receive £3,910  and this would apply to any claims they made for such fees where the 
claim exceeds the policy limit. So, while I accept a policyholder might well benefit from a 
separate, and additional £4,000 limit in such circumstances  if the claim exceeds £4,000 
then the actual claim payment is limited to £3,910, regardless of how many separate 
conditions a policyholder claims for in a policy year. 
I acknowledge CGICEs points about the documents and Im not disputing its been made 
clear to Mr M that an excess is payable or that its common practice for an excess to be paid 
in circumstances where a claim is made. As detailed in my provisional decision, I do agree 
CGICE acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy in deducting the excess. But I 
explained that I didnt think this was fair. And I still think thats the case. 
I noted that I didnt think the documents made it clear enough to Mr M that when purchasing 
the policy with the £4,000 condition limit, it wasnt ever possible to actually receive up to that 
limit. An insurer must ensure information they provide to their policyholders is clear, fair and 
not misleading. The impact of this is that it effectively reduces the settlement Mr M can 
receive under the policy, so I believe its fair to say something which has this level of impact 
is a key term. So, I think CGICE shouldve drawn Mr Ms attention to this. And to ensure this 
is done, I would expect such a key term to be highlighted in a prominent place. In this case, 
it wasnt  and while I accept the excess is mentioned in some documents, it doesnt clearly 
explain the full policy limit is effectively unclaimable. 
CGICE have provided an extract of the sales journey and this shows the policy excess being 
£90 and also notes Excess example: If you were to make a £1,000 claim you would need to 
pay £90. I agree this does illustrate how the excess is applied. But, I think this example 
demonstrates how the £90 is deducted from the claim value. 
So, I can understand why Mr M would have thought that, similarly, the £90 would be 
deducted from his claim value of £6,135  meaning he would actually receive the £4,000 
limit he purchased  and not deducted from the policy limit.  
I can see CGICE say it was for Mr M to raise any queries if he was unsure about the policy 
terms. Ive explained why I believe Mr M wouldve thought that he would actually receive the 
£4,000 limit he purchased. So I can understand why he didnt feel the need to raise any 
query until his claim was settled for less than the policy limit. I wish to reassure CGICE Ive 
read and considered everything theyve sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is 
a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that CGICE have acted unfairly in not meeting Mr Ms claim at the full 
benefit limit. So, CGICE should pay Mr M £90 to bring the settlement amount paid to £4,000. 
CGICE should also pay Mr M 8% interest per year simple on the £90, from the date Mr M 
paid, until the date his claim is settled, less any tax properly deductible. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd must take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things 
right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman