DRN-2120428
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H are unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited cancelled their home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H told their insurance broker that they wanted to increase their insurance 
cover with Fairmead because they had acquired some high value artworks. As a result, 
Fairmead cancelled the policy as it said that due to the change in risk it was no longer willing 
to provide cover. Mr H and Mrs H said that they wanted the policy to be reinstated and would 
insure the artwork via another policy. However, Fairmead maintained its decision to cancel 
the policy and returned the premiums paid from the date of cancellation onwards.
Mr H and Mrs H complained to Fairmead. They said that they wanted the policy reinstated 
for their home and they would be willing to insure the artwork elsewhere. They also said that 
refunding only part of the premiums paid was unfair and that they should be refunded back 
to the renewal date. They also hadnt been given the correct notice, as it should have been 
30 days notice in writing. However, Fairmead had told their insurance broker, who had then 
told them by phone.
Fairmead maintained its decision to cancel the policy, as it had been provided with new 
material facts, the ownership of the artwork, and this led to a change in the overall risk. It 
said that Mr H and Mrs H had been insured up to the point the policy was cancelled, so it 
was correct only to refund the premiums from when the policy was cancelled. It said that it 
had told their insurance broker that the policy had been cancelled.
Mr H and Mrs H complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
thought that Fairmead had acted reasonably in deciding to cancel the policy, including how it 
did this, and only refunding the premium from the cancellation date.
As Mr H and Mrs H did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H and Mrs H think that because the artwork itself was insured 
elsewhere that this dealt with any additional risk presented by ownership of the artwork. 
However, I can see that from Fairmeads perspective, the ownership of artwork of a 
substantial value was assessed as increasing the likelihood of an insured event taking place 
at the property, such as a burglary. If that did happen, Fairmead would potentially be 
responsible for at least some parts of that claim, even if the artwork was insured elsewhere. I 
cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable for Fairmead to cancel the policy. Insurers are 
able to decide who and what they are willing to insure. If Fairmead assessed that the 
changed level of risk was something that it was no longer willing to insure, that was a 
commercial decision that it was entitled to make and it isnt within the remit of this service to 
tell an insurer to do otherwise.
There is also the issue of how much of the premium was refunded, as Mr H and Mrs H were 
only refunded the premium from the cancellation date onwards. But, Mr H and Mrs H have 
said that they should be refunded the premium for the whole year. Fairmead has said that it 
provided cover for the period until it cancelled the policy and that it would have dealt with any 
claims made up until that point. I also note that the policy says that if Fairmead cancelled the 
policy that it would refund premiums already paid for the remainder of the period of 
insurance. On that basis, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that Fairmead should 
refund the premiums for the whole period. Mr H and Mrs H had the benefit of the insurance 
cover, even if they didnt need to use it, up until the point that the policy was cancelled. The 
premium was also refunded in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr H and Mrs H are also unhappy about how they were told that the policy was cancelled. 
The policy documents said that Fairmead would give them 30 days notice in writing. 
However, Fairmead told Mr H and Mrs Hs insurance broker, who then told them by phone. 
Fairmead acknowledged that it didnt provide notice in writing direct to Mr H and Mrs H.
Ive thought about this carefully. The purpose of giving appropriate notice is to allow a 
policyholder time to get cover elsewhere. In this instance, Fairmead gave the correct amount 
of notice, but did that via the insurance broker, rather than directly in writing. Having looked 
at what happened, I cant see that this made any difference or would have changed the 
outcome. Regardless, of how the cancellation was communicated, the policy was still going 
to be cancelled and Mr H and Mrs H would have had to find a new policy. 
When Mr H and Mrs H were told of the cancellation by the broker, they still had time to find a 
new policy before the cancellation took effect. I accept that Mr H says this was already a 
very stressful time for him due to other issues that he was dealing with and, unexpectedly, 
having to find a new policy made this worse. But, ultimately, it was the cancellation of the 
policy, rather than the way that it was communicated, that was the primary source of the 
issue. I cant see that Fairmead telling the insurance broker, who had already been asked by 
Mr H and Mrs H to help ensure that they had appropriate insurance in place, disadvantaged 
them.
So, thinking about all of the above, Im of the view that Fairmead was entitled to cancel the 
policy and to only refund the premiums from the date of cancellation onwards and I cant see 
that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing so. Mr H and Mrs H were also given notice of 
the cancellation, albeit via their insurance broker and not in writing, and they had enough 
time to find a new policy before the cancellation came into effect. It therefore follows that I 
dont uphold this complaint or require Fairmead to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman