DRN-2349911
The complaint
Miss Cs complaint is about the refusal of a claim under her wedding insurance policy with 
Great Lakes Insurance SE.
  
What happened
Miss Cs wedding was meant to take place in 2019. Around a month before the wedding, the 
venue cancelled. Mis C found another venue, which cost more than the original venue, so 
she made a claim under the policy for the additional costs incurred in rearranging the 
wedding. 
Great Lakes refused the claim, as it says the policy only covers a loss of venue in the event 
of financial failure of the business. It says that in this case the venue had not gone into 
liquidation or bankruptcy but had simply decided to close their business.
One of our investigators looked in to the matter. She recommended that it be upheld, as she 
said the evidence was that, while there had not been a completed liquidation process, the 
venue provider had closed their business and she didnt think it was fair to refuse the claim 
on a technicality. The investigator therefore recommended Great Lakes pay the claim plus 
interest. 
Great Lakes doesnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to 
me. Great Lakes says the claim has not been declined on a technicality, it is simply not 
covered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen an email dated October 2019 from the venue to Miss C, which said the venue has 
been sold, as the owners had decided to retire, and so operations will cease. However, the 
venue owner and the company providing the wedding services are apparently separate 
entities. 
A later email says, the [wedding services] company has suffered financial difficulties and 
had to cease to trade due to the property it traded from being sold  The company is not in 
liquidation although it is currently insolvent.
I understand they initially sought to dissolve the company and I have seen a notice that the 
wedding services company was formally dissolved on a date in November 2019. Miss C 
says they were liquidating their assets as party of that dissolution. 
A later email from the wedding providers solicitor says, I can confirm that the above 
company will cease to trade  due to financial difficulties and that we have been instructed 
by the Directors to assist with regards to placing the company into liquidation. Unfortunately, 
this has resulted in a number of wedding bookings having to be cancelled. The Directors are 
aware of their legal duties as officers of a company and did not wish for the company to be in 
a position where it was trading insolvently.
The company did not own the building from which it traded and, separate to the financial
difficulties being experience by the company the owners of the building took the decision to
sell the building.
The policy Miss C held provides cover of up to £6,000 as a result of failure of any wedding 
suppliers: 
Failure of Suppliers We will pay  irrecoverable deposits and additional costs in 
arranging alternative wedding services following the bankruptcy or liquidation of any pre-
booked wedding services supplier directly contracted to and paid by you.
Great Lakess final response letter to Miss C also says that it requires the supplier to have 
been through a completed insolvency process before a claim can be met but this is not 
stated in the policy. The above clause doesnt state that the failure of the suppliers has to be 
due to their financial failure. 
Bankruptcy and liquidation are not defined under the policy but they do have legal meanings. 
If the supplier were bankrupt then this would be a financial failure but there are different 
types of formal liquidation process, including voluntary liquidation in the event a business 
owner decides not to run it any more. So liquidation is not always necessarily the result of 
financial failure of the business. And I do not think the policy is clear enough to be read as 
requiring financial failure to be the cause of the failure to provide the wedding services the 
policyholder contracted for. 
In addition, a company can be dissolved, rather than liquidated if there are no debts to deal 
with but the end result is the same  the cessation of the business. So even if a formal 
liquidation process has not been completed, in my opinion, it would be a reasonable 
expectation that this section of cover would provide for exactly the situation that happened 
here: the failure of the company contracted with to provide the wedding ceasing to trade and 
failing to provide those services.  And, even if I accepted that the policy required there to 
have been financial failure of the wedding services supplier, it seems to me from the emails 
quoted above, that this has also been established. 
Given this, it seems clear to me that the wedding provider ceased to trade and it is not fair or 
reasonable to refuse the claim because it has not completed a formal liquidation process.
I therefore agree with the investigator that Great Lakes should meet the claim, subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy, together with interest at our usual rate. I also think it should 
pay compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss C by its refusal 
of the claim. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE and require it to do the following: meet Miss Cs claim, subject to the remaining terms of the policy. Interest should be 
added to the settlement at 8% simple per annum, from the date she incurred the 
expenses to be reimbursed, to the date of reimbursement; and 
pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss C by its 
wrongful refusal of the claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman