DRN-3639892
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) declined its request for a loan under the Recovery Loan Scheme.
Ss director, Ms R, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
S banked with NatWest and approached the bank with a request to borrow £30,000 under 
the Recovery Loan Scheme in June 2021. 
NatWest declined Ss application. When confirming its decision to Ms R, the bank said that it 
had deemed the application to be outside of its appetite and lending criteria having 
conducted its standard checks and assessments.
Ms R appealed the decision, but it remained unchanged. Believing NatWests position to be 
unfair, she then referred the matter to us and it was reviewed by one of our investigators.
Our investigator said, in summary, that NatWest had the authority to decide whether to offer 
a loan to S and didnt think the bank had acted unreasonably in declining the application. 
She thought it had assessed the request against its standard policy and in line with the 
requirements of the Loan Scheme. And having reviewed the basis on which the bank had 
reached its decision, she couldnt see that an error had been made.
Ms R didnt accept our investigators view. She said S only needed the loan as a temporary 
fix while awaiting government grants and couldve afforded it, and that both of these points 
had been evidenced to the bank. So she didnt think there was any basis on which NatWest 
had been entitled to decline Ss application.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Recovery Loan Scheme, lenders were entitled  and expected  to 
assess the viability of the lending proposition. Applications were still subject to affordability 
and creditworthiness assessments in a similar way to conventional loans, with lenders 
retaining the discretion to consider requests in line with their usual underwriting policies.
NatWest has explained that Ss application fell outside of its appetite and lending criteria. I 
cant see that it divulged much more information than that to Ms R, and it wasnt required to. 
But it has explained its rationale to us, with supporting evidence. Having reviewed this, I can 
see both that Ss application was fairly considered against the banks standard criteria and 
declined in line with the same. 
As Im satisfied that NatWests decision to decline Ss application was made in line with both 
the expectations of lenders under the Loan Scheme and the banks standard criteria, there is 
no basis on which I can say it acted unfairly. 
I appreciate that Ms R will find the decision to difficult to accept, particularly without knowing 
the specifics of NatWests reasons and given both her strong belief that S wouldve been 
able to service the loan without issue. All I can do is assure Ms R that I have scrutinised the 
banks assessment of Ss application and the basis of its decision in order to reach the 
decision I have. I hope that an independent assessment of the matter will, at least, offer 
Ms R some comfort that her company wasnt treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman