DRN-2144184
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about her home insurer, Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV), because it declined her claim made when her retaining garden wall collapsed.
What happened
In late December 2019 Mrs W found that her garden wall had collapsed. On 22 December a 
contractor, whom Ill refer to as P, visited Mrs Ws property to assess the wall. He 
confirmed in an email that excessive rain had caused pressure to build behind the wall and a 
shrink/expand motion had caused it to collapse. 
On 23 December 2019 Mrs W made a claim to LV. LV checked weather records as well as 
reviewing some photos Mrs W had sent it. Having determined there hadnt been a storm but 
noting root growth in the vicinity of the wall, LV declined Mrs Ws claim. On 24 December, 
Mrs W emailed LV. She said there was no evidence that vegetation had caused the problem. 
She asked LV to reconsider and/or send an assessor. LV agreed to appoint a surveyor.
The surveyor attended but could see no insured reason for the walls collapse. He said the 
only known reason was wear and tear. 
The same day Mrs W obtained a further report from a contractor Ill call M. M said the area of 
wall that had failed was where the area of retained soil was at its highest. M also said that 
water pressure from the soil had likely, over time caused the mortar on the face of the wall to 
fail, allowing water in which had, over time, frozen and thawed, further weakening the wall 
until it collapsed. 
On 24 January 2020 LV issued a final response maintaining its decline of the claim. LV said 
there hadnt been a storm but, in any event, all the reports provided showed that the collapse 
had occurred on account of prolonged wet weather. LV also said that the policy specifically 
excluded damage which occurs gradually by wear and tear, settlement or shrinkage, and 
that photos showed roots behind the wall which had likely placed pressure on it.
Mrs W then complained to us, she felt LVs decision on the claim was unfair. Later she 
provided a further email from P. The email was dated 3 March 2020; P said the collapse had 
been caused by a falling tree on the waste ground the wall had retained. Mrs W had shared 
this with LV and it had said it didnt change its view on the claim. LV said the 
contemporaneous reports found long-term issues were to blame, none had mentioned a 
falling tree and the hedging above the wall was undamaged. LV felt that if a tree had fallen 
with enough force to damage the wall, the wall wouldve collapsed shortly after the impact.
Mrs W, having confirmed to LV in correspondence that the tree had fallen sometime last 
year, said to us it had felt like an earthquake when it happened. She explained that the force 
of the fall, which occurred a couple of metres away from the collapsed section of wall, had 
caused the wall damage which had then caused it to collapse during the heavy rainfall. 
Mrs W said it could be no coincidence that the remainder of her wall, not in the vicinity of the 
fall, had remained intact. Mrs W explained that none of the experts had seen the fallen tree 
because it was hidden by the hedging that sat on top of the wall and remained in place 
following the walls collapse.
Our investigator noted there hadnt been any storm. Regarding the possibility of the tree 
causing the damage, she noted LV maintained its position that the collapse was age related. 
Overall, she felt its decline of the claim had been fair and reasonable.
Mrs W asked for an ombudsmans decision.  She said she couldnt have known initially what 
had caused the wall to fall  and it was only when clearance work was done that the true 
cause  the fallen tree  was found. Mrs W said the original reports were flawed because 
they were based on assumptions, finding the tree meant the real cause of the damage is 
now known and her claim should succeed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand that Mrs W believes she knows what happened, I dont think that is by 
any means clear. Im not persuaded that LV acted unfairly or unreasonably when it declined 
her claim and Ill explain why.
Mrs W has a policy which offers cover for damage caused by certain events. For damage to 
be covered it has to be shown that, on balance, it most likely resulted from one of those 
events. Not just that one of those events happened sometime near the point of the damage 
occurring. If something is shown, on balance, to have occurred and caused the damage, 
then it is up to an insurer, if it wants to defeat that claim, to show that a relevant exclusion to 
cover exists for it to rely on.
Mrs Ws policy did not benefit from accidental damage. So the two events in question here, 
that Mrs Ws claim might fall for cover under, are storm and impact (by a fallen tree/branch).
LV has established that there was no storm at the time of the damage. Therefore, Mrs Ws 
claim under the storm cover can fairly and reasonably be declined by LV. So LV could have 
ended its assessment there, it didnt need to send out a surveyor. But it did and Mrs W had 
her reports on the damage also.
Turning to the theory that the wall was damaged by a falling tree, I do think its of note that 
none of the experts that viewed the wall felt, at the time, that it had collapsed as a result of 
sustaining some kind of impact. The way in which a wall falls will often tell an expert quite a 
bit about what happened to it. And here, rather than concluding that a sudden application of 
an external force might have damaged the wall (even though the tree couldnt be seen), all 
three experts determined that gradual damage over time had affected the wall. And it was 
one of Mrs Ws own experts that suggested the damage had occurred to this part to of the 
wall alone because the loading there was greater due to a higher soil level. 
I also see that there is significant root growth from the hedge above the wall. LV thinks this 
put pressure on the wall. Mrs W says the roots are wispy and wouldnt have exerted any 
pressure. I think some of the roots are fine, but some seem thicker. Im not persuaded that 
the root growth wasnt placing pressure on the wall and Im mindful that root growth often 
has an influencing effect on mortar. 
I know Mrs W has concerns that the original reports were only speculative  but expert 
opinions like this do carry weight. Whilst I note Ps later opinion, I dont think its reasonable 
to say this means LV should pay the claim  its one view against many others, including the previous view from P, which all found that the wall had suffered damage consistent with 
wear and tear. As I said above, none of the experts felt the mode of the fall was consistent 
with an impact having occurred and none of them saw or noticed anything else that might 
have suggested an impact had occurred (such as damage to the hedge). The discovery of 
the tree, and the possibility that this may have caused some damage to the wall, doesnt 
explain away the other findings, or answer why three experts didnt think an impact might be 
to blame.
Overall, I can understand why LV thinks its by no means clear that Mrs W has established 
that a tree fell on her wall causing it damage. I can also see why it thinks, even if this were 
the case, it can reasonably rely on the gradual cause exclusion to defeat her claim. Having 
considered all of the evidence, Im not persuaded LV did anything wrong. Consequently, 
I wont be requiring LV to do anything more regarding Mrs Ws claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman