DRN-3587937
The complaint
Mr H complains that Madison CF UK Limited failed to investigate a fraudulent transaction 
and provided poor service when updating his details.
What happened
Mr H explained that hed changed his contact details (email address) with Madison, but they 
failed to update their own systems. Mr H also identified an unusual transaction made using 
his card that he didnt recognise.
Mr H believed that Madison hadnt blocked his account and left his card open to fraud. When 
he was trying to deal with Madison, they wouldnt pursue his issues because part of the 
information required was different to that held by Madison. This related to what email 
address was registered on the account.
This caused Mr H to write directly to the CEO of Madison about the issue as he believed that 
Madison were providing poor service. Various contacts were made between each party, but 
because the email address registered to the account was different to the one currently used 
by Mr H, an in-depth discussion about the fraud problem couldnt take place.
Later, Madison were able to update the appropriate email address for Mr H. Madison asked 
Mr H to complete a fraud declaration, which was signed and returned although Madison said 
there were unanswered questions on the form. Mr H complained to Madison about the lack 
of service and the fraud issue. 
Madison investigated the issues but didnt change their position. Mr H then brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. Mr Hs complaint 
was looked into by one of our adjudicators who thought that because specific security 
questions werent answered, Madison acted appropriately and didnt uphold Mr Hs 
complaint concerning the customer service. Mr H wanted a further review of his complaint.
A later report was issued to Mr H concerning the disputed transaction. This identified that 
Madison had already refunded the payment back to Mr Hs account and there were no other 
fraudulent payments made against it.
Mr Hs complain has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint by Mr H centres on two areas, one being fraudulent activity on his account 
and the other related to his interactions with Madison.
Firstly, Ill deal with the disputed transaction. Mr H believed that Madison had left his account 
open to fraud after trying to report an unrecognised payment to them. Examining Madisons 
records shows that the disputed transaction was refunded back to Mr Hs account and it was 
blocked at the time it was reported to their CEO. No further fraudulent transactions were 
made on the account and as it was refunded, I no longer need to consider this specific 
aspect of the complaint as Mr H was put back into the position he was in prior to it taking 
place.
Secondly, Mr H was unhappy that his email address hadnt been changed. Ive examined Mr 
Hs account which would record any changes such as this one. Whilst I dont doubt that Mr H 
thought his email address had been changed, Madison have no record of it in their system. 
I dont know what happened at the time Mr H tried to change it, but as theres no record of a 
different email address, Madison were following their security process when Mr H tried to get 
in contact with them. Reading the chat between the parties, its apparent that Mr H had both 
the original and his new email address which he gave to Madison. They insisted that Mr H 
provide only one email address linked to his account to pass security - at which point the 
conversation deteriorated. 
I understand why Madison insisted on only one email address being given to them because 
this was part of their security process designed to protect Mr Hs account from unauthorised 
access. But at the time, Mr H was under the impression that hed already changed it, so he 
provided both of them. At that point Mr H lost patience with Madison. Later, Madison were 
able to update the email address and advised Mr H about this.
Its unfortunate that this situation wasnt resolved earlier, but the evidence indicates that 
Madison were strictly following their process. I appreciate Mr Hs frustration, but Madisons 
processes were designed to protect his information. Im sure it seemed a little inflexible to Mr 
H when he presented both email addresses to them, but the operator from Madison was 
following procedure to check that Mr H was a genuine account holder. Because Mr H left the 
chat and resisted other efforts to deal with the matter, I dont think that Madison could have 
done much more at the time.
Mr H was concerned about charges on his account at the time. As far as Ive been able to 
see, there were a couple of months when no payments were made against the account 
which were, as per the agreement, added to the following months statement. These 
payments were part of the terms and conditions and I think it was reasonable for Madison to 
add them to the outstanding balance.
So, taking everything into account, I wont be upholding this complaint 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman