DRN-1703641
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his request for assistance in 
recovering money hed paid using his credit card. He says the bank didnt exercise due skill 
and care in relation to the chargeback claim it raised on his behalf.
What happened
Mr T used his HSBC credit card to make a payment of £11,600 to a third party, A, as a 
deposit for work A was undertaking for him. That work involved supply and installation of an 
air conditioning system for a property Mr T was building. Mr T was dissatisfied with As 
design, which he said was submitted late and that his contractor R said would be inadequate 
for the property requirements. After attempting to resolve matters with A, Mr T asked HSBC 
to intervene.
The bank raised a chargeback for the payment, which was defended on As behalf by its 
merchant acquirer. Although HSBC escalated the claim to arbitration, it was ultimately 
determined by the card scheme in favour of As acquirer. That meant Mr T didnt get his 
money back. In the meantime, A had ceased trading. The bank further told Mr T that, while 
hed paid by credit card, the transaction fell outside the financial limits of section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, such that it wasnt liable to him for his claim.
Mr T complained to HSBC about its handling of the claim. In summary, he believes the bank 
failed to keep him informed on the progress of the claim, or to follow the chargeback process 
set out in the card scheme rules. Mr T also says HSBC didnt make reasonable efforts to 
support his claim by obtaining an independent experts report, and that it failed to tell him 
about the right to appeal the card schemes decision, despite his enquiries. He wants the 
bank to reimburse him, as he thinks that the arbitration decision would have been in his 
favour if HSBC had acted properly.
HSBC disputed Mr Ts assertion that its handling of his claim led to his loss. It said it 
provided him with an interim refund pending the initial claim, that it raised the claim in line 
with the card scheme rules and progressed matters as far as it was able. The bank said that 
delays were due to the card scheme rather than its actions, but that it had paid Mr T a total 
of £350 compensation for his time and trouble in chasing up the outcome. It said it also gave 
Mr T an extended interest-free period as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator felt HSBC had done all it could to assist, by raising  and escalating  a 
chargeback claim on Mr Ts behalf. He didnt consider there was anything to suggest the 
bank had failed to act properly.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators conclusions. Hes asked for this review, and has 
provided further submissions that clarify and summarise his concerns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears to be common ground that although Mr T used his credit card to make payment to 
A, the total cash price attached to the services A was due to render to him fell outside the 
financial limits set out in section 75. For the avoidance of doubt, that is my finding here. 
Section 75 has an upper limit of £30,000 in this respect and Mr T has submitted that the 
£11,600 he paid A represented only 20% of the contract value. I appreciate that this isnt the 
main focus of Mr Ts complaint, so I shall turn now to his dissatisfaction with HSBCs 
handling of the chargeback claim.
Mr Ts claim is based on what he alleges to be a breach of contract by A. That isnt in itself a 
chargeback reason, but based on the description of the underlying dispute it is clear HSBC 
selected an appropriate chargeback reason in the card scheme rules. That was that goods 
or services the merchant (A) provided were defective, or not as described. In accordance 
with the card scheme, HSBC provided a temporary credit to Mr Ts account pending the 
claim outcome.
The bank supplied supporting documents in accordance with the relevant rule  a 
description in sufficient detail for the parties to understand the dispute. Mr T provided the 
bank with extensive background information in this respect, and judging by the response 
from As merchant acquirer, it understood the dispute  it just didnt agree with the position. 
A  through its merchant acquirer  responded with a valid defence, which challenged Mr Ts 
assertion. The letter also invited Mr T to deal with matters directly through court action. The 
response was provided within the card scheme timescales, and left HSBC with the decision 
of whether to proceed to arbitration. It took the view that it would be appropriate to do so. Up 
to this point, I see no reason to think HSBCs actions were wrong, or that it failed to exercise 
due skill and care in handling the chargeback claim.
Where a claim is made under this chargeback reason, the card scheme rules say that the 
card issuer needs to supply a new letter from the cardholder responding to the merchants 
explanation. I can see HSBC made As response available to Mr T and that he wrote a 
detailed letter dated 19 September 2018. I observe that in that letter, among other things 
Mr T explicitly stated that R was the contractually agreed expert for disputes arising between 
him and A.
Ive highlighted this because Mr T has said that at this point HSBC should have asked him to 
obtain an independent expert report, and that its failure to do so evidences lack of due skill 
and care. In support of this position he has cited an extract from the card scheme arbitration 
decision that said:
The decision was based on the fact that the arbitration chargebackwas improper 
and not in accordance with the Chargeback Guide...If the validity of the [chargeback 
reason code] dispute is challenged by the merchant, the issuer must supply 
corroborating documentation necessary to support the validity of the dispute. This 
documentation must be from an expert or professional that supports the cardholder's 
dispute about the level of quality or misrepresentationThe issuers arbitration 
chargeback failed to include proper documentation to corroborate the cardholder 
dispute.
It's not for me to question the conclusion of the card scheme in making a determination 
under its own rules. It took the view that the bundle of documents HSBC did supply was not 
enough to support the validity of Mr Ts claim. But that doesnt mean HSBC erred in not 
requesting that Mr T obtain an independent expert report. The supporting documents 
requirement in the chargeback rule to advance to arbitration said:When not provided with the first chargeback, documentation from an expert or 
professional that supports the cardholders dispute about the level of quality or 
misrepresentation may be required when the validity of the dispute is challenged by 
the merchant. Other documentation necessary to support the validity of the dispute 
may include, but is not limited to, the original receipt, invoice, work order, brochure, 
contract, or appraisal.
Mr Ts initial submissions already included Rs expert opinion on the quality of As work. And 
Mr T had noted R as the contractually approved expert in this matter. I consider it was within 
HSBCs discretion to decide whether the existing evidence met this stated requirement. Im 
not persuaded the bank reached an unreasonable conclusion in this respect, even if the card 
scheme felt the evidence was insufficient.
Im conscious Mr T has referenced HSBC internal memos produced in the course of the 
original chargeback submission and prior to As response. These memos are suggestive that 
HSBC felt an independent report would be needed. Indeed, they appear to be consistent 
with a letter on HSBCs file dated 19 June 2018 in which the bank asks Mr T for original 
plans/blueprints and independent report supporting the claim.
But the banks internal note dated 16 July 2018 references that Rs approval was needed for 
A to comply with the contract. While I dont doubt the arbitration requirements were a factor 
in the banks overall decision to proceed to the final stage, the memos and letter are not 
persuasive evidence that the decision made at the relevant time was made without due skill 
or care.
While its clear that up to September 2018 Mr T would reasonably have been aware the 
chargeback had been challenged and the dispute unresolved, I havent seen any 
correspondence between HSBC and Mr T after that time until it informed him of the 
arbitration outcome. It also debited the payment back to his account.
I dont consider that the passage of time entitled Mr T to treat the matter as resolved; he 
hadnt had any communication from HSBC to that effect. The bank shouldnt be prevented 
from seeking repayment from Mr T because of this. But it should have provided Mr T with 
updates or an explanation of what was going on during that time, and fully explained the 
situation when the card scheme found against him.
HSBCs failure to do this caused Mr T distress and concern, not least when he was told of 
the dispute outcome. The bank offered Mr T £250 compensation in recognition of this, in 
addition to an earlier £100 it paid at an earlier stage in the chargeback process. Im aware 
Mr T hasnt accepted this amount. However, I consider it a fair proposal to address the 
shortcomings in the banks communications with him.
That leaves the matter of the right to appeal the card schemes decision at arbitration. The 
card scheme rules make provision for appeal within 45 days of the arbitration decision. Mr T 
says he asked the bank about any right of appeal several times, but was told this wasnt 
possible. Ive noted what Mr T has said about what he was told by email in November 2019, 
but this was some time beyond the appeal window and caused no detriment to his position.
Theres no indication from HSBCs correspondence or its internal memos that it gave him 
incorrect information during the 45-day period about any right to appeal. I accept the 
possibility, however, that he might have been told this without it being recorded by HSBC. 
Ive no reason to think Mr T was mistaken in this respect, and based on his ongoing 
dissatisfaction with the situation, it seems to me quite likely he asked about the possibility of appeal. I cant see that HSBC told him about that right. Had it done so I consider it likely 
Mr T would have exercised that right.
I know Mr T is confident that on appeal, the card scheme would have found in his favour. But 
Im not in a position to say what the outcome would have been. Its far from clear that Mr T 
would have been able to submit further evidence such as an independent expert report.
The card scheme rules say that while an appeal may include documentation supporting 
an overturn of the original decision. However, no new facts will be considered in an appeal 
unless, and then only to the extent, requested by [the card scheme]. So any power to admit 
further evidence such as a report was up to the card scheme, and whether this would have 
been requested has not been established. Nor can I simply assume what such a report 
might have said.
And the point remains that even if Mr T had been able to submit a fresh report, or to 
emphasise the role of R in the existing evidence submissions, its still not possible for me to 
say with any certainty what the card scheme would have concluded. I only know why it didnt 
find in his favour at arbitration. It doesnt automatically follow that the decision would 
otherwise have gone against A.
Its important to note that my role here is to look at HSBCs actions in dealing with the claim. 
its not for me to decide whether A or Mr T has the stronger argument. I appreciate Mr T 
holds strong views about what he considers the banks responsibilities. And there are some 
fair points about keeping him updated while the chargeback process was ongoing. Further, I 
dont doubt hes significantly out of pocket and faces limited prospect of recovery from As 
liquidated assets.
But from what Ive seen, HSBC raised and pursued the chargeback appropriately. There 
were shortcomings in its communication with Mr T, but I dont consider theres a compelling 
reason to conclude that HSBCs actions were such that it should become liable to Mr T for a 
loss that he is unable to recover from A.
Rather, I think the banks proposal to pay Mr T a total of £350 and to provide him with a 32-
month interest-free period represents a fair resolution to the dispute. There is some question 
here over how much of that compensation it has paid already, and HSBC should clarify this 
directly with Mr T, should he decide to accept my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I do not require HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to take any additional action to settle Mr Ts complaint. If it has not already done so, it 
should pay him a total of £350 and ensure the interest-free period mentioned has been 
applied to the account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman