DRN-2299802
The complaint
Ms H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money, has failed to find out 
what has happened to funds held in a savings account. Virgin Money says Ms H has been 
paid the money from this account but Ms H says shes never received it.
What happened
In early 2020 Ms H found a certificate of deposit (CD) for a savings account she held with 
Northern Rock. This matured in 2003 and its closing balance with interest, was recorded as 
£5,108. Ms H said she doesnt think she received a payment for this amount when the 
account was closed in 2003. So she complained to Virgin Money who has since taken over 
the business of Northern Rock.
In response to Ms Hs complaint, Virgin Money resent a letter shed been sent by Northern 
Rock on 20 August 2003. In its letter, Northern Rock informed Ms H that on maturity the CD 
account had been closed, which it said was on 12 August 2003. The letter informed Ms H 
that a cheque for the balance had been sent to her home address as requested. So Virgin 
Money said Ms H had been paid the funds due from this account in 2003.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she considered the evidence supported what 
Virgin Money had said. She noted Ms H provided statements from a current account she 
held in 2003, which didnt show a cheque for the sum of £5,108 being paid in. But our 
investigator didnt think this was enough to show Ms H hadnt received the cheque from 
Northern Rock.
 
Ms H disagreed. In brief, she said she didnt have another bank account in 2003 so any 
cheque wouldve been paid into this account. So she asked for the matter to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I think its important for me to say that whilst I recognise Ms Hs 
strength of feeling, rather than address every point thats been raised, my decision will focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues. I'll also mention that where there's a dispute 
about what happened I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, 
on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the evidence. 
Virgin Money only has limited information about Ms Hs CD account which I dont find 
unusual as businesses normally only keep records for up to six years. Ms H points to her 
bank who recently provided her with current account statements going back to 2003. But all 
businesses have different retention policies. And I think its reasonable that Virgin Money 
hasnt retained much information about an account closed seventeen years ago. 
Virgin Money has provided a response Northern Rock sent to Ms H on 20 August 2003. It 
wasnt a final response letter but did respond to concerns raised by Ms H in a letter she sent 
dated 31 July 2003. Ive not seen a copy of Ms Hs letter but its referred to in Northern 
Rocks response. Amongst other things, Northern Rocks response informed Ms H that a 
cheque had been sent to her home address in August 2003. This letter was correctly 
addressed  an address where Ms H still resides. So I think it more likely than not, arrived at 
Ms Hs home address.
Ms H says she didnt respond to Northern Rock. And that this was because when she 
received a statement about her CD account showing the interest due to be added, she 
thought a cheque would follow. She says she didnt think there was anything further for her 
to do, so she filed the paperwork and forgot about it. Ms H added that her job at the time was 
under threat which helped to push the issue into the background. And that she only recently 
found the documents relating to the CD account when going through some paperwork.
Whilst I understand what Ms H is saying here, from what I can see she did write to Northern 
Rock as Ive outlined above. Virgin Money said that when Ms H didnt respond to Northern 
Rocks letter, her complaint was closed and this is why it thinks no final response was sent. 
So I consider it most likely that Ms H did receive the cheque. As she says, this came at a 
time (2003) when her job was under threat. Given this and the amount of money involved, I 
think she would most likely have contacted Northern Rock if the cheque it referred to in its 
letter, hadnt arrived.
Ms H says statements relating to her current account from 2003 shows she hadnt paid in 
the cheque. But as the investigator said, this simply shows the cheque wasnt paid into this 
particular account. On balance, Im still persuaded the cheque was sent to, and received by, 
Ms H. I can appreciate given the years that have passed, Ms H might not recall receiving the 
cheque. And I dont doubt shes brought this complaint in the honest belief that Virgin Money 
owe her money. Its just that I dont have enough evidence to make this finding.
Ms H says Virgin Money has a moral responsibility to attempt to solve where the cheque 
was issued and to whom. I think given the time thats passed, Virgin Money has done what it 
reasonably can to provide Ms H with answers.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding he complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman