DRN-3486873
The complaint
Mrs B complains that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill Car Insurance) (UKI) 
caused additional damage to her car following a claim on her car insurance policy.
References in this decision to UKI includes the agents it instructed in relation to Mrs Bs 
claim.
What happened
In 2014, Mrs B made a claim on her car insurance policy. UKI accepted the claim and 
carried out repairs to her car. 
In 2016, Mrs B notified UKI that the paintwork on one of her cars wings, which had been 
repaired in 2014, was blistering. UKI agreed to replace the wing.
In 2020, Mrs B notified UKI that the paintwork on both of her cars wings was blistering. She 
said UKI should repair the blistering, which she said was caused by its previous repairs.
UKI, with Mrs Bs agreement, asked a paint expert to investigate the cause of the blistering. 
The paint expert said it wasnt caused by the repairs. 
Mrs B says that, in carrying out his inspection, the paint expert caused more damage to her 
car by using methods for which she didnt give her permission. She wants UKI to repair the 
damage caused by the inspection. UKI says it wont be able to take the matter forward 
because the blistering the paint expert investigated wasnt caused by its repairs.
So Mrs B brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it didnt uphold it. She 
thought Mrs B had agreed to the inspection. And, given Mrs Bs car already had blistering, 
she didnt think Mrs B had suffered detriment as a result of the paint expert removing some 
of the blisters to investigate what was likely to have caused them.
Mrs B disagrees and so her complaint has come to me to decide.
I should mention that Mrs B has previously complained to us about UKI not carrying out an 
effective and lasting repair to her car following her 2014 claim. And shes had our final 
answer on this. For the avoidance of doubt, what Im looking at in this decision is only       
Mrs Bs complaint about the specific damage caused by the paint experts inspection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs B complaint. Ill explain why.
Given the ongoing problems over a number of years with blistering to the paintwork of      
Mrs Bs car, I think it was fair and reasonable of UKI to request an inspection by a paint 
expert. Both Mrs B and UKI needed to try to get to the bottom of the fault. And its clear from 
internal records UKI has shown us that Mrs B agreed to the inspection.
In his report on the blistering, the paint expert explains the methods he used in his 
inspection. He says: The tops were removed from several blisters with a scalpel-blade  
with the findings imaged, noted and compared.
He also says:
When the chosen blister(s) was pierced  with a scalpel-blade, no moisture was evident 
from beneath the paint film, this suggesting an air pocket or imperfection was within the Gel 
coat itself. When the exterior of blister was totally removed  this was further substantiated 
to be the Gel-coat. Glass Fibre became visible upon further investigation.
Mrs B says she didnt give permission for the paint expert to use the methods he did to 
investigate the problem, which has left marks where some of the blisters were pierced or 
removed. And so she wants UKI to pay to repair them. 
But, as Ive said, Mrs B did give her consent to the inspection generally. And I wouldnt have 
expected the paint expert to ask for her permission to use the specific methods he did to 
carry out the inspection. From the description hes given in his report, he had to pierce and 
remove some of the blisters to assess their likely cause. In the absence of any expert 
evidence to the contrary, it seems to me that what the paint expert did was a necessary and 
inevitable consequence of Mrs B asking UKI to carry out further repairs to her car (following 
those done in 2014 and 2016). 
The paint experts conclusion, as Ive already noted, was that the fault was with the 
manufacturing process and wasnt a failure of the paint refinishing materials, processes or 
workmanship of the UKIs authorised repairer. So, having found that UKI wasnt at fault for 
the blistering, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct UKI to pay for the damage 
to the paintwork of Mrs Bs car caused by the inspection that reached that finding.
I also agree with our investigator that, since the cars paintwork was already blistered, the 
additional marks caused by the paint experts inspection havent put Mrs B in a materially 
worse position than she was in before the inspection took place.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman