DRN-4020642
The complaint
Miss B complains about a declined claim on her home emergency insurance policy with 
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) and the service she received after making the 
claim.
RSA are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions 
of their appointed agents. As RSA have accepted they are accountable for the actions of 
their appointed agents, any reference to RSA should be interpreted as including the actions 
of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Miss B and RSA. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Miss B had a home emergency insurance policy with RSA. On 25 February 2021 she 
reported a claim for damage to her roof. An engineer visited her property the next day. RSA 
say that engineer found that the roof needed replacing due to the damage and overall wear 
and tear. Miss B says this engineer offered to arrange a private repair for the roof.
A second engineers visit was arranged for 2 March 2021. They found that a repair was 
required to the right hand hip of the roof. A quote was provided for a permanent repair  
which was inclusive of labour, materials and scaffolding. RSA further considered the claim 
and decided that the costs would be more appropriately covered under an alternative 
insurance policy (buildings and contents cover)  as the repair needed was not a temporary 
one.
Miss B raised a complaint and RSA issued their final response on 12 May 2022. In that final 
response letter, RSA stated that the total contribution theyd make towards the claim was the 
policy limit of £1000 and a contribution of around £700 would be required from Miss B. This 
was because the cost of scaffolding RSA said was required for roof access would have 
pushed the claim costs above £1000.
Miss B remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our Service for an independent 
review. After an Investigator initially upheld the complaint, RSA responded withdrawing their 
offer and declined the claim. Another Investigator recently re-considered the complaint and 
recommended that it be upheld, RSA should pay up to the policy limit for repairs and pay an 
additional £500 for distress and inconvenience for the impact of their actions when 
responding to this claim. 
RSA didnt respond to the recent assessment and the complaint was referred to me for a 
decision. I recently sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings. As the 
deadline for responses has now passed, Ive now considered this complaint for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Ive to reach my decision 
based on what I think is more likely than not  based on the available evidence.
As neither party has provided any materially new responses, I see no fair or reasonable 
reason to depart from my findings, as set out in my provisional decision.  
It's clear that this claim has been ongoing for some time, having first started in 2021. I note 
that RSA made reference to our Services handling of this complaint. My decision will only 
comment on the actions of RSA and the impact of their actions on Miss B.
Have RSA fairly and reasonably considered this claim in line with the policy terms?
Its important to state here that a home emergency insurance policy is not intended to 
replace a buildings insurance policy. Generally, home emergency will respond to an 
emergency situation with an often temporary repair. RSA have made reference to this claim 
being better suited to being considered under any buildings insurance that Miss B may have 
held. Whilst that may be correct, I still need to consider how they have dealt with this claim 
and how theyve treated Miss B overall.
When this complaint was referred to our Service, RSA had offered (in their final response 
letter) to pay up to the policy limit of £1000, subject to a contribution of around £700 by Miss 
B. This was confirmed again in correspondence to our Service dated 20 May 2022:
.as we would like to offer reimbursement for the repair to the roof up to the claim 
limit of £1000.
I consider this was a fair and reasonable way to resolve the claim. However, RSA then 
revoked this offer and declined the entire claim after our Investigators initial assessment. 
Based on what Ive seen, this was neither fair nor reasonable. Ive noted that after my 
provisional decision, RSA resubmitted an earlier document as their response  which 
included the claim settlement referenced above. As its unclear whether this was an 
oversight, error or a genuine offer  for completeness Ive considered that RSAs position 
remains that they withdrew their offer.  
RSAs reasons for declining the claim were that 1- there were no loose, missing or broken 
tiles when their contractor attended the first time and 2- previous works on the roof had not 
been completed correctly. In summary, RSA felt that there were a number of issues with the 
roof that made it unsound and it hadnt been properly maintained.
Our Service asked Miss B about RSAs comments and shes said that following RSAs first 
visit, shed arranged for a friend to put some felt across the roof to try and mitigate the leak. 
Based on the evidence, the photos provided were taken during a visit from RSA after this 
had happened. Assuming this is accurate, this was a reasonable course of action for Miss B 
to take and doesnt - in isolation, support that the roof hadnt been properly maintained.
On balance, Im not satisfied that RSA have fairly considered this claim before declining it.
Miss B has told our Service that she hasnt had the roof fully repaired since these events began in 2021, but took some steps - such as arranging for felt to be put down to prevent 
further damage. Given the time thats passed since these events first started, it would now 
be difficult for RSA to re-evaluate the claim.
However, as RSA had previously agreed to reimburse Miss B up to the policy limit of £1000, 
in my opinion this is the fairest way to resolve this claim. The actions taken by Miss B since 
havent detrimented RSAs position - as theyd agreed to pay out up to the policy limit and 
Im not asking RSA to go above this.
I want to make it clear to RSA here: if things had happened as they shouldve when notified 
of this claim, a more detailed investigation of the loss shouldve taken place. Instead, two 
surveyors were sent out and RSA based their initial position on this. This position, in my 
opinion was fair. For RSA to later change their position, without any further evidence is not in 
the interests of treating their customer fairly or resolving the claim inline with ICOBS 8.1 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/ICOBS/8.pdf:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); 
and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
I intend to direct RSA to settle this claim - up to the policy limit of £1000. Given the time 
thats passed and because of the specific circumstances of this complaint, RSA should now 
speak to Miss B about both the settlement and the best way forward for all parties - as the 
repair works are (seemingly) still outstanding. If a way forward cannot be agreed, RSA 
should consider cash settling the claim (up to the policy limit).
Have RSA treated Miss B fairly and reasonably overall?
I find that RSA have let Miss B down, but intend to award £300 compensation (rather than 
the £500 our Investigator recommended). Although this may be disappointing for Miss B, this 
isnt to detract from the impact of RSAs actions on her. In my opinion this is a fair, 
reasonable and proportionate amount - relative to the impact of RSAs actions on Miss B.
I say this because of the numerous claim handling issues here. Not limited to: the time taken 
to resolve this claim, the uncertainty that Miss B has had to live with over a prolonged period 
of time, the initial response from the surveyor/engineer on behalf of RSA, the communication 
with Miss B and the loss of expectation due to the claim being accepted, a settlement 
proposed and then withdrawn again.
For balance, Ive also kept in mind that Miss B has told us she didnt arrange a full repair - 
despite this claim being ongoing since 2021 and no evidence has been provided that she 
tried to mitigate her loss through claiming against any buildings insurance policy she may 
have had. But these points aside, RSA have let Miss B down on multiple occasions whilst 
handling this claim and need to do something to put things right here.Putting things right
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc need to:
Settle this claim - up to the policy limit of £1000. 
Given the time thats passed and because of the specific circumstances of this 
complaint, RSA should now speak to Miss B about both the settlement and the best 
way forward for all parties - as the repair works are (seemingly) still outstanding. If a 
way forward cannot be agreed, RSA should consider cash settling the claim (up to 
the policy limit).
Pay £300 in recognition of the avoidable trouble and upset their actions have caused 
Miss B by how theyve handled this claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to follow my direction, 
as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman