DRN-2611028
The complaint
Mr M has complained to Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander 
Consumer Finance (Santander) when a car he was paying for under a conditional 
sale agreement exhibited a fault. He says the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
he entered into the agreement.
What happened
Santander agreed credit for Mr M in May 2018 in order to acquire a car. The cash price of 
the car, as per the agreement, was £6,540 and Mr M paid a deposit of £3,000. He 
borrowed the balance of £3,540 which, plus £467 interest and charges, came to £4,007. 
This was to be repaid by 24 instalments of £167. So, the credit agreement was for a total 
of £7,007  the deposit of £3,000 plus £4,007. (Ive rounded all figures to the nearest 
pound for simplicity).
The credit was granted under a conditional sale agreement meaning Mr M would own the 
car when the credit had been repaid. Santander was the owner until that point and Mr M 
was, in essence, paying for the use of it. Any complaints about the quality of the car as 
given to Mr M then fall to Santander.
Mr M says that the car became noisy when braking and turning about two weeks after 
the sale and he took it back to the selling dealership to have it repaired. He says the 
problem immediately happened again. This time he took it to his local garage for repair 
because the dealership was 150 miles away and it hadnt managed to repair the car in 
the first instance. 
A month or so later, in July, the car wouldnt start. Mr M says he contacted the 
dealership who told him that its 30 day warranty had ended and the car was no longer its 
responsibility to repair. Mr M says that he then contacted Santander, who told him that it 
had provided the finance but didnt deal with the repair side of things. Mr M says his car 
was recovered by a third-party and repaired by a specialist garage at his expense. Mr M 
continued to have trouble with the car relating to it starting. He says that in October 2018 
the car stopped while he was on a motorway and the engine began smoking. The car 
was again recovered by a third-party, who brought it back to his home.Mr M says he 
didnt have the money to repair it and the car sat on his drive for several months. Mr M 
says he replaced the battery in June 2019 and subsequently a problem with the engine 
control unit (ECU) was diagnosed.
Mr M complained to Santander in July 2019 that the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality 
from the beginning of the agreement. He says he didnt have the use of it for about six 
months and spent money on repairs. Furthermore, Mr M says that he was sold a years 
third- party warranty by the dealership and thinks that it wasnt activated when the car was 
purchased but at a later date. Hes also said that the warranty didnt cover either the car 
battery or the ECU.
Mr M says that the car failed an MOT just before he bought it, and he says that the car 
failing and passing its MOT would suggest the faults that caused it to fail were patched up 
or temporarily fixed so it could pass. Hes also said that there was a difference in the 
amount the car was advertised for and the amount the dealership quoted to Santander 
and, altogether, he feels he was taken advantage of.
When Mr M complained to Santander he asked to have the car repaired by a specialist 
and to have the use of a courtesy car, or to have a refund to put towards another car with 
a more reputable dealership. I understand that he has since repaid the credit and sold the 
car.
Santander says that as Mr M had the car repaired at unauthorised third-party garages 
and the selling dealership wasnt informed each time, it cant be certain that the faults 
hes complained about were present when he acquired the car. Santander also says Mr 
M would need to take up any complaint regarding his warranty with the dealership.
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt recommend that it 
be upheld. They found that the car was of an age and mileage that the issues he had with 
it could be down to wear and tear and not unsatisfactory quality. They also found that Mr 
M hadnt informed Santander about the issues he was having until he complained, and it 
couldnt be shown that any faults he complained about then were present at the onset of 
the agreement.
Mr M disagreed with this recommendation. The complaint then came to me, as an 
ombudsman, to resolve. I issued my provisional decision on 11 January 2021 
explaining my provisional findings and why I thought Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld in part. 
Mr M responded to my provisional decision to say he had nothing more to add on 
the matter and Santander has accepted it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. 
Neither party has provided any further comment or new information for me to consider and, 
altogether, Ive found no reason to depart from my provisional findings and Im upholding 
Mr Ms complaint in part. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr M as I am not 
upholding all aspects of it. I set out my reasoning in my provisional decision and for 
completeness, I will include this again in my final decision.
Ive set out in the below table the sequence of events as I understand them from what Mr 
M has said and the information hes provided which, he says, is as complete as possible. 
As the table shows, Mr M had trouble with the car very soon after he bought it and later 
had ongoing issues with it not starting.
Date Event Details
23/05/2014Alignment issues, engine 
management faultSeen on the vehicle history print - mileage at 
approximately 108,000 miles24/06/2014Engine management - fault 
diagnosisSeen on the vehicle history print - mileage at 
approximately 113,500 miles
18/05/2018MOT test - fail due to 
brakes and wheel issuesFrom check-mot.service.gov.uk
18/05/2018 MOT test - passed From check-mot.service.gov.uk
19/05/2018Car conditionally sold to 
Mr MMileage at approximately 136,000 miles
Early June 
2018Brake noise Repaired by dealership
Early June 
2018Brake noise Repaired by local garage
20/07/2018 Car wouldnt startRecovered by a third-party, repaired by a specialist 
garage who noted "Recovered in, non-start, no crank"
? Car wouldnt startMechanic diagnosed a faulty earth lead, which was 
subsequently replaced
October 
2018Car stopped on motorway 
with engine smokeAgain, recovered by a third-party who thought it 
might be a fuel pump issue  the car was reported as 
not starting and undriveable. Recovered to home.
20/06/2019Recovered and diagnosed
by S4SMr M paid for a new battery but there was still an
issue in starting the car.
? Final diagnosisNo life going to the fuel injectors which was 
diagnosed as being caused by an ECU fault
Santander was obliged under The Consumer Rights Act 2015 to ensure that the quality 
of the car was satisfactory, in other words that it was of a standard a reasonable person 
would feel was satisfactory or as expected taking into account factors such as the cars 
age, the mileage, the price it was sold at etc. I understand that the car was seven years 
old when Mr M acquired it and it had travelled over 136,000 miles.
The MOT fail details (from May 2018) provided by Mr M sourced from a government 
website include: weakened brake discs; imbalanced front brakes; excessive play in the 
wheel bearings; a tyre fouling part of the vehicle, and below-required efficiency on the 
service brake. I think its reasonable to conclude that these were likely related to the noise 
Mr M experienced on steering and braking shortly after acquiring the car. The dealership 
didnt refuse to deal with these issues, albeit not very effectively according to Mr M, who 
then chose to have the car repaired locally.
Mr M doesnt say that these issues occurred again or that he was unable to continue to 
use the car. However, it does seem that the selling dealership failed to remedy a problem 
which was likely to have been in place when the car was sold. Indeed, the dealership 
appears to have accepted that these issues had been there at the outset as they had 
attempted to repair them. I think Mr M lost out by then paying for these repairs himself. As 
Santander was responsible for the quality of the car, I think it needs to pay some 
compensation to Mr M for the cost of these repairs specifically, even though Mr M might 
not have informed it of the problem at the time.
Mr M says that on at least three occasions after that the car wouldnt start and he had to 
have it repaired. As listed in the table, on the first occasion (July 2018) the car was 
recovered by a third-party and repaired by a specialist garage. The second time the car 
failed to start Mr M had the earth lead replaced and the third time involved a battery 
replacement. The car was eventually diagnosed as having a fault with the ECU.Mr M says that the car was sold to him with this fault, and hes pointed out that this had 
been diagnosed earlier in the cars history in mid-2014. I can accept that there was an 
issue with the ECU earlier in the cars history which may or may not have been repaired 
since then. However, given the length of time between this earlier diagnosis and Mr Ms 
experiences, I cant accept this as evidence which on its own supports his view of it being 
an ongoing issue at the time of the sale.
In order to find that Santander is at fault here, I need to find that its more likely than not 
that the car was not of satisfactory quality in this regard when it was conditionally sold to 
Mr M. And Im afraid that I cant conclude that in this case for a number of reasons.
Firstly, it is possible that the age and mileage of the car were the cause of the starting 
issues Mr M experienced, even though these began soon after purchase. In which case, 
the quality of the car was not at odds with its expected characteristics when it was sold.
It is also possible that the actions of a third-party damaged the ECU, for example in 
recovering the car or carrying out repairs to it. So, even considering that the problems 
Mr M had in starting the car were not because of wear and tear but because of an 
underlying fault, that fault may have been caused after he bought the car. And of course, it 
is also possible that the final diagnosis of a faulty ECU might not have been the cause of 
the earlier issues in starting the car.
I have also considered what Mr M says about contacting Santander and the dealership 
when he first had issues starting the car, and neither of them offered help. However, I 
havent seen any evidence of this. In fact, what I have seen from Santanders customer 
notes is that Mr M did contact Santander around that time (June and July 2018) to make 
his repayments by card prior to his direct debit being set up. There is no mention in 
Santanders customer notes of problems with the car, which I would expect Mr M to have 
raised given he was discussing payment for it. Altogether, it seems to me that neither the 
dealership nor Santander had any involvement with Mr Ms decision to have the car 
repaired by a third-party.
Let me say at this point that I can understand Mr Ms perspective on the matter as I can 
see from the information hes provided and what hes told me that he spent time and 
money on the car before selling it in 2019. I have taken all of this into account when 
coming to my decision. However, altogether, I cant say that its more likely than not that 
the problems he experienced in starting the car were present when he entered into the 
agreement. This means that Santander is not responsible for putting this right for him in 
this case. So I am not asking it to pay him compensation for the trouble and costs he 
experienced in this regard.
Mr M has pointed out that the invoice he received from the dealership had a lower value 
than the invoice Santander received which informed the financial agreement. I have seen 
both invoices. The cash price of the car is shown as £5,990 on an invoice from the 
dealership dated the 19/05/2018 provided by Mr M. The invoice from the dealership 
provided by Santander (dated the 17/05/2018) shows the cost of the car as £6,540. Also 
listed on this invoice is PDI inspection service and MOT but no cost is specified for these 
items. The only other cost I am aware of associated with the car is a third-party warranty 
for which Mr M says he paid the dealership £300.
Irrespective of the reason for this difference in invoices, which I will not speculate on, I 
note that Mr M signed the financial agreement as seen i.e. with a cash price of £6,540 and 
a total repayment figure of £7,007 including his deposit and any interest and fees 
associated with the credit. The agreement is dated the 18/05/2018. I would have expected Mr M to have raised a query around that time if it was not the amount he was expecting to 
repay or if he became aware of conflicting information.
Mr M has also mentioned an issue with the third-party warranty he bought from the 
dealership. He says the warranty wasnt registered (or incepted) at the time of the sale 
and that it didnt cover either replacing the battery or repairing the ECU. Even if the 
warranty had not been registered at the time of the sale, I cant see that this has impacted 
on Mr M because it seems it didnt actually provide cover for the parts of the car that he 
later needed to repair. I dont think these omissions are unusual as I understand this type 
of warranty doesnt generally cover these items.
If however Mr M expected this to be the case or was told otherwise, in other words if he 
feels he was mis-sold this warranty, then he would need to take this matter up with the 
selling dealership or with the warranty providers. I appreciate that at the time of writing the 
selling dealership is no longer operating. However, I cannot direct Santander to look into 
this as I understand that Mr M bought the warranty from the dealership and not through 
Santander.
What Santander should to to put things right
As I explained above, I think Santander needs to compensate Mr M for the cost of the 
repairs he had carried out in June 2018 to repair the braking issue with the car, which 
the dealership failed to do when it had the opportunity. I think Santander should pay for 
these specific repairs on receipt of reasonable evidence from Mr M of how much he 
paid.
As per this Services usual approach to compensation, I think Santander should add 8% 
simple interest per annum to the agreed figure to reflect the fact that Mr M should not have 
been without these funds. Santander needs to deduct tax from this interest and provide 
Mr M with a certificate for this if he requests one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I am upholding Mr Ms complaint in part about Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance and require it to put things 
right for him as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman