DRN-4006000
The complaint
Miss T complains that Santander UK Plc arent able to locate the funds which were held in 
an account with them.
Miss T is represented by her mother in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Miss T herself.
What happened
Miss T says her mother recently found her savings passbook showing a balance, so she 
contacted Santander to locate the funds. They replied saying the account was closed on 20 
February 2010 and £716.46 was the closing balance. Miss T requested a copy of the last 
statement to see how and where the account was closed as she says this account was 
opened and only used in the branch, so she definitely hadnt closed the account. But she 
says Santander couldnt give her proof of this due to the time that had passed. Miss T made 
a complaint to Santander.
Santander said that they were unable to accept Miss Ts complaint as it was time barred. 
They say as the complaint was made out of time as the event happened on 20 February 
2010, and she had sufficient time to realise this problem within three years of the event date. 
They said she would have been sent an account closure letter through the post. Miss T 
brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ts complaint. She said there was limited evidence to 
support the notion that the account balance wasnt paid to Miss T when the account was 
closed. She said it was unfortunate that due to the passage of time, theres limited 
information about the account closure. She said Miss T raised the complaint within three 
years from the date she became aware she had cause for complaint because she found the 
passbook in 2022. Miss T asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Miss T that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what their 
procedures should be for retaining transaction data. It would be the role of the regulator  
the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Santander to make changes 
to their policies and procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal dispute 
resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of 
individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant industry 
guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business has failed their 
customer.
Im satisfied Miss T raised the complaint within three years from the date she became aware 
she had cause for complaint because the passbook was found in 2022. While Miss Ts 
mother is in the possession of a passbook for the account, this is not proof that the account 
still has funds in the account. It simply shows that at a point in time the account had funds in 
it at a particular time and that a passbook was in use on the account. 
I have thought about what I would expect Santander to do in these circumstances and if they 
have treated Miss T fairly in their investigation and I think they have. They took the available 
information from her and conducted a search of their systems, this showed the account had 
been closed on 20 February 2010, with a withdrawal of £716.46. Santander have searched 
for statements and a trace of funds. But due to the time thats passed, Santander arent able 
to provide any more information about this transaction. As this date was over 13 years ago, I 
cant say its unreasonable that Santander does not have any further information about this 
transaction. So it follows that I dont require Santander to do anything else. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman