DRN-4172470
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Monument Life Insurance Dac discontinued a claim she made on 
a mortgage payment protection insurance policy for unemployment.
What happened
The policy has a maximum benefit period of 24 months per claim. Mrs M was made 
redundant in December 2020 and received pay in lieu of notice until 22 March 2021. 
Monument accepted the claim and made monthly payments up to 15 February 2022. It 
finalised the claim at this point on the basis that Mrs M had failed to provide job search 
evidence as required under the policy terms.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I was thinking of upholding 
the complaint and inviting the parties to provide any further information or evidence. 
Monument responded with some comments that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms set out the requirements for making an unemployment claim. It states:
If you are not eligible for Jobseekers Allowance, for example, you are in receipt of 
Income Support Benefit, or Widows Pension, or Single Parent Allowance, you must 
provide two pieces of evidence from prospective employers that you are seeking 
work.
Under Benefit duration, the policy states that a claim will be paid out until:
You are no longer available for, and actively looking for work (or cannot evidence 
that you are.
Looking at the policy terms above, its clear that a policyholder would normally need to 
provide job search evidence in order for a claim to continue if they are not in receipt of JSA 
or equivalent state benefits. However, as stated in my provisional decision, when deciding 
this complaint, I need to look at what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ive listened to a number of phone calls between Mrs M and Monument. 
Following a couple of earlier calls, Mrs M calls again on 25 May 2021 to explain that shes 
spoken to the job centre and that the new enterprise scheme is not available to her. The 
adviser tells her that if she is not entitled to JSA or Universal Credit (UC) then shed need to 
provide two pieces of job search evidence a month. Mrs M then explains that she is hoping 
to set herself up as self-employed and asks: So I need to be seeking employment as well as 
doing that? The adviser says that is normally the case but shed have to confirm it and that 
sometimes they ask for information to show that a policyholder is trying to get their business 
off the ground. The adviser then says that she can see that a claims manager will be looking 
through the case, so she was going to ask him to look into this issue as well and confirm 
what type of information it would look to request in this case. 
The claims manager subsequently calls Mrs M. She explains that shes been unsuccessful in 
applying for jobs and so was looking to become self-employed, which probably wouldnt get 
going until around July 2021. The claims manager explains that Monument would generally 
ask for job search evidence but he imagined that a lot of her time was going to be spent 
networking and that kind of thing. He then says: Because you cant provide job search 
evidence necessary because you might not be applying for other work while youre 
networking and things, we would just ask you to keep us updated on a monthly basisjust 
a little sort of note of what youve been doing, and again that would be enough for us to 
continue paying your claim. Mrs M says shes: just making sure Im giving you what you 
need. The claims managers response is again that, if shes not in receipt of UC, to just send 
an email of how many self-employed hours shes put in each month.
From listening to the calls mentioned above, Im satisfied that it was confirmed to her that the 
only information required was a monthly update relating to her self-employment activities.
Mrs M began sending in continuing claim forms (CCF) each month.  She was very 
transparent in the information she provided to Monument about her self-employed activities. 
She was not providing any job search evidence and Monument paid the claim for a number 
of months without issue. Ive listened to a call that took place later in 2021 where Mrs M says 
she was ringing because shed received a letter asking her for more information but was 
unclear what was being asked for. She was told that she was being chased for the CCF and 
the list of hours she was working as self-employed. So again, there was no indication that 
Monument was expecting Mrs M to provide job search evidence.
Mrs M had spoken to Monument over the phone and received confirmation that providing 
monthly details of her self-employment would be enough for her claim to continue. She was 
also upfront and honest about focusing solely on self-employment and never received 
anything from Monument to tell her that was inappropriate or would affect her claim.
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that, in telling Mrs M what it did, Monument 
effectively waived the requirement for her to produce job search evidence. Im also satisfied 
that, if Mrs M had been told to provide monthly job search evidence, that she would have 
complied with that request. 
In its response to my provisional decision, Monument isnt disagreeing with my finding 
around the requirement for job search evidence. It has instead raised a new reason why Mrs 
Ms claim should no longer succeed.
It says it confirmed to Mrs M that she could work up to 15 hours per week on the assumption 
that her business would be a growing concern and that she would reach the point of 
becoming self-sufficient. However, after several months that hadnt happened. And it has no 
way of validating Mrs Ms word that she isnt working more than 15 hours per week. 
Monument also says it needs to consider the level of income that Mrs M has been 
generating to see if she is better off than before she was made redundant. Whilst accepting 
that income from self-employment can be inconsistent, it has pointed out that Mrs M 
received almost £8,000 in income in October 2021 and that her income for several months 
from February 2022, with the level of benefit paid under this claim, has exceeded her former 
gross monthly salary. As the purpose of insurance isnt to place someone in an improved 
position, the claim is no longer valid.In setting the parameters about what Mrs M needed to do for her claim to continue, 
Monument told her that she needed to provide evidence of her self-employed work activities 
and that shed need to be doing those activities for less than 16 hours per week. Based on 
the available evidence, Im satisfied that Mrs M understood the expectation that she should 
not unnecessarily prolong the claim period beyond a point where her new business could 
sustain work of over 16 hours a week. Im also satisfied that Monument accepted that it 
would take some time for Mrs Ms new venture to get off the ground.
There was no mention of limiting the number of months that Monument would support Mrs M 
in starting her new business. Neither was there any mention of her self-employed income 
having an impact on the claim. No ceiling was placed on what she could earn whilst working 
less than 16 hours per week. 
I do appreciate Monuments position and have some sympathy with it. But overall, I consider 
it unreasonable for it to try and introduce a new reason for declining the claim at this late 
point. If Monument didnt want to provide cover in such circumstances, then it should have 
made that explicit at the start. Trying to rely on new criteria now that does not appear in the 
policy is not fair or reasonable.
As such, I find it unfair that Monument discontinued the claim on 15 February 2022.
Putting things right
Monument should re-open the claim and continue to assess it from February 2022 under the 
remaining policy terms but disregarding Mrs Ms level of self-employed income and the need 
to provide job search evidence.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and 
require Monument Life Insurance Dac to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman