DRN-2705887
The complaint
Ms N would like Aviva Insurance Limited to refund her the premiums shes paid for a 
personal accident insurance policy following its decision to withdraw the policy from the 
market.
What happened
Ms N took out a bank-branded personal accident plan in 2013. She paid a monthly premium 
for the policy, which was underwritten by Aviva.
In November 2020, Aviva decided to withdraw Ms Ns plan from the market. So it wrote to 
her to let her know that the plan would be cancelled with effect from 28 February 2021. It 
sent a reminder letter in January 2021. And the policy was cancelled as planned on 28 
February 2021.
Ms N was unhappy with Avivas decision to withdraw her policy. She felt it might be difficult 
to get alternative cover elsewhere. And she wanted a refund of the premiums shed paid for 
the plan from the start. She asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Ns complaint should be upheld. She thought Aviva had been 
entitled to withdraw the personal accident plan from the market. She felt Aviva had let Ms N 
know about its decision within the contractual notice period. And she considered that as 
Aviva had been providing insurance cover for Ms N while the policy was active, it was fair for 
it to retain the premiums Ms N had paid.
Ms N disagreed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Aviva has treated Ms N fairly. Ill explain why.
In 2020, following a product review, Aviva (and the associated bank) decided to withdraw Ms 
Ns personal accident plan from the products it offered. We wont generally tell an insurer 
what products it should and shouldnt offer, or who it should insure. Thats a legitimate 
commercial decision which an insurer is entitled to make. So Im satisfied Aviva was 
reasonably entitled to decide to withdraw the personal accident plan from the market.
We can check whether an insurer has treated all of its customers in the same circumstances 
in the same way though, to check it hasnt unfairly singled a customer out. In this case, Aviva 
withdrew the personal accident plan Ms N held for all of its customers and treated them in 
the same way. So Im satisfied it didnt single Ms N out in any way.  
Ive next considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Ms Ns contract with Aviva. 
One section is called When this insurance will end and it includes the following term:
We may cancel your insurance, by sending you notice in writing; if:
We give you at least 90 days notice of cancellation where we are no longer offering this 
product, and are not offering an equivalent alternative product.
In this case, Aviva wrote to Ms N on 30 November 2020 to let her know that it was no longer 
offering her policy and it would be cancelled on 28 February 2021. This letter was written in 
clear and understandable language. The letter was sent more than 90 days before the policy 
was due to be cancelled. I can see that Aviva wrote again to Ms N on 18 January 2021 to 
remind her about the forthcoming withdrawal of cover. So I think Aviva met its contractual 
obligations to give Ms N notice about its decision. I can also see that in both of these letters, 
Aviva set out websites where Ms N might be able to find alternative cover. I think it was fair 
and reasonable for Aviva to set out possible alternative provision to help Ms N find a new 
policy if she wished to do so. 
I appreciate Ms N has been disappointed by Avivas decision and I understand she feels it 
might be difficult to find a new policy. But I dont think it would be fair for me to direct Aviva to 
refund the premiums shes paid for the cover since 2013. Thats because its a fundamental 
principle of insurance that if an insurer has started to bear the risk of a policyholder making a 
claim under a policy; the premium the policyholders paid isnt returnable. While Ms N 
fortunately didnt need to make a claim on her policy while it was in force, Aviva was still 
covering the risk of her needing to do so. This means that Ms N had the benefit of her policy 
between 2013 and 28 February 2021. So while Im sorry to disappoint Ms N, Im satisfied its 
fair for Aviva to keep the premiums she paid and I wont be telling it to refund her any 
money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman