DRN-3658466
The complaint
Ms S complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) failed to process a chargeback claim 
for her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms S, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Starling, its administered by Mastercard and 
they set the rules. Starling didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good 
practice for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
Ms S was upset her daughter hadnt learnt anything from the course shed paid three 
monthly instalments towards. She complained about the quality of teaching/mentoring and 
also said there was a software error. Ms S explained to Starling that she had paid for the 
final month, but her daughter had left after only a week of that month and she hadnt 
received a refund. 
Starling were able to raise a chargeback if the course wasnt as described or if there was 
sufficient evidence Ms S had paid for some of it but not received what she had paid for. 
Im not persuaded there was sufficient evidence of either of these issues. Ive not seen 
evidence of the course content or the extent of teaching provision that could be expected so 
it isnt possible to suggest the goods were not as described.
Whilst Ms S says her daughter didnt attend the last few weeks Ive not seen sufficient 
evidence that was because the course wasnt available and on the basis of the evidence I 
have been provided Ive not seen sufficient to suggest the course couldnt be completed 
because of a failure on the suppliers part. It seems Ms Ss daughter didnt continue as Ms S 
thought the course wasnt of a satisfactory standard, but thats a subjective view that Im 
afraid hasnt been supported with objective evidence.
Ive read that Ms S identified an issue with a Y-axis used in the software and the email chain 
suggests that wasnt resolved. I dont think that suggests there was a significant issue with 
the software that prevented participation and would enable Starling to raise a chargeback as 
the service was not received or not as described.
Ive also noted that Ms S had some problems accessing the parent account to check her 
daughters progress. Its clear from the WhatsApp message that it was possible to check this 
through her husbands access details and again, I dont think it was a reason under which 
Starling could fairly raise a chargeback request.
Starling have accepted that their agent misled Ms S into believing the charges would be 
refunded into her account. Theyve paid Ms S £40 in recognition of their mistake and, in the 
circumstances, I think that was fair.
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear of the problems Ms S has had I dont think Starling were 
unreasonable not to progress the chargeback claim and Im not asking them to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman