DRN-2599337
The complaint
Miss M complains about delays from Credit Link Account Recovery Solutions Limited 
(CARS) after she asked for information about payments made towards a debt.
  
What happened
In November 2019 Miss M contacted CARS and asked for details of her outstanding balance 
for a debt it holds. CARS responded on 4 December 2019 and gave the outstanding 
balance. CARS confirmed the next payment of £350 was due in January 2020. 
In February 2020 Miss M emailed CARS again and asked for details of the payments she 
had made towards the outstanding balance. Miss M sent several further emails to CARS 
during February, March, April and May 2020 requesting information about the payments she 
had made. 
CARS responded to Miss Ms complaint on 4 May 2020 and upheld it. CARS agreed it had 
failed to respond and provide the information she requested. CARS said the delay was due 
to an administration error. CARS final response said it had provided Miss M with the details 
she wanted but that she could get back in touch and ask for information if required. 
Around a week later and then at the start of June 2020 Miss M sent further emails to CARS 
asking for a statement. On 16 June 2020 CARS responded and apologised for the delay in 
providing the information requested. Miss M chased statements again twice during June 
2020 and again at the beginning of July 2020. CARS sent Miss M details of all the payments 
she made on 17 July 2020 and confirmed the outstanding balance would be repaid in 
September 2020. 
Miss M referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
upheld Miss Ms complaint and said CARS hadnt responded to Miss Ms request in a 
reasonable amount of time. CARS didnt accept and said a call note from March 2020 
indicated an adviser had given the Miss M the information she wanted. CARS said Miss Ms 
subsequent emails were treated as a new information request and didnt agree that paying 
£100 was a fair way to resolve the complaint. CARS asked to appeal, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all Miss Ms contact with CARS and can see that, from February 2020 to July 
2020 she has consistently asked for details of the payments made and outstanding balance. 
Its clear Miss M wanted to get a better understanding of what she had paid and how many 
payments she had left until the debt was repaid. 
Ive looked carefully at everything both Miss M and CARS have supplied in support of the 
complaint, and the first time I can see the requested information was provided was by email 
on 17 July 2020. 
Our investigator thought CARS had taken too long to provide the information Miss M asked 
for and I agree. CARS final response dated 4 May 2020 accepts that it delayed sending 
Miss M the payment information she asked for and apologised. And, whilst I understand 
CARS says the information was provided in the lead up to its final response, its clear Miss M 
was still unclear about what payments she had made and how much she still owed. 
CARS final response was issued on 4 May 2020 but Miss M continued to send further email 
requests throughout May, June and July 2020 repeating her request for information about 
her payments. CARS says a call note from March 2020 indicates the advisor gave Miss M 
the information she asked for, but it doesnt appear anything was sent in writing at that point 
and its not clear what was discussed. However, Miss Ms emails to CARS throughout the 
period in question consistently repeat her request for payment information. 
CARS says after it responded to her complaint it treated Miss Ms emails as a new enquiry. 
But Miss Ms emails to CARS contained copies of her previous requests and she reiterated 
her claim that no one had sent the information she asked for. Im satisfied Miss M was 
asking for the same information throughout the period she contacted CARS. 
Our investigator recommended CARS pay Miss M £100 to reflect the delay and 
inconvenience caused. Ive considered how to fairly resolve this complaint and agree with 
the investigator. I think £100 fairly reflects the impact of the delay in provided Miss M with 
the payment information she asked for. As a result, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint and 
directing CARS to pay her £100 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Credit Link Account Recovery Solutions 
Limited to pay Miss M £100.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman