DRN-3648338
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) increased her premium 
for her motor insurance policy over four years but didnt provide her with any documentation. 
She wants a refund of any overpayments.
What happened
Mrs M took out a policy with RSA in 2017 and registered for online documents and email 
notifications and to pay by monthly direct debit. Her annual premium (with credit charges) 
increased from £467.79 in 2017 to £1,108.50 in 2021. But Mrs M said she didnt receive any 
policy documents after 2017. She said RSA had charged her incorrect premiums, failed to 
provide policy documents and denied her the opportunity to shop around. 
RSA said if Mrs M wanted to cancel her current policy it would waive its cancellation charge 
and she could take up lower priced cover. But it said it hadnt done anything wrong and 
wouldnt apply new Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulations retrospectively. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He saw that RSA 
had sent renewal invites by email and post for the years following 2017 to the correct 
address. He thought Mrs M should have seen the increases in her direct debit payments. 
And he thought it was her choice not to shop around for cheaper cover. He didnt see any 
evidence that the premium increases were unfair. And he thought the new FCA rules werent 
retrospective. 
Mrs M replied that RSA hadnt provided proof that it had sent the renewal invites to her. She 
said it hadnt sent her email reminders of her renewals. She said shed been overcharged 
about £2,000 for her cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role in complaints like this is to make sure that a customer has been treated fairly and in 
line with how other customers have been treated. Whilst its not for us to tell a business how 
to price their policies, we need to make sure theyre being consistent and not taking 
advantage of any groups of customers. 
Mrs M said she was prompted to shop around recently as her husband had obtained 
cheaper cover from another insurer. Mrs M hasnt told us why she didnt shop around for 
cheaper insurance in previous years. She has told us that she feels she has been 
overcharged by RSA because she didnt receive her renewal information and because she 
obtained a quote from RSA for similar cover to her current policy for under £400. 
Its agreed that when Mrs M first took out her policy online she signed up for email and 
online notifications. RSA said it sent Mrs M her renewal invites by email each year since the 
start of her policy. It said it also sent these by post in 2018 and 2019. Ive seen evidence that 
these were sent to Mrs M each year since the policy started. I can see that they were sent to 
the correct email and postal addresses. 
Mrs M said she didnt receive any of these emails and letters, and I have no reason to doubt 
her. But I have also seen evidence from RSA that they were sent. RSA has investigated the 
issue internally and is unable to identify any errors with Mrs Ms account. So I cant say what 
happened to this correspondence and I cant hold RSA responsible for the postal or email 
services. 
I think its for Mrs M to ensure that she is insured. But I cant see that Mrs M queried with 
RSA that she hadnt received any documents before she complained in 2022. And I can also 
see that Mrs M didnt access her online account before 2022 to check her documents. 
Mrs Ms premium increased each year. RSA said this reflected market changes. It said its 
pricing team confirmed the year on year increases were correct in and in line with the 
general increases to its motor book over the last few years. I think Mrs M would have seen 
her premiums leaving her account by direct debit. But she didnt query the increases. 
Mrs M paid the following annual premiums:
Year 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Annual 
premium*£467.79 £658.79 £816.09 £975.78 £1,108.50
Annual 
increase£191.00 £157.30 £159.69 £132.72
% increase 41.0% 23.9% 19.6% 13.6%
*includes direct debit costs for monthly payments
Its normal for premiums to increase over time. And Ive not seen any evidence to show that 
the increases were unfair. Often a new customer discount is applied when the policy is first 
taken out and we think its fair that premiums increase to recoup this discount. From what 
weve seen, we think most businesses will have recouped this by the fourth renewal. And so 
I cant say that the increases in premium for the four renewals were unfair. 
And, as there had been just four renewals, Mrs M hadnt yet reached the point where we 
think RSA should have realised that she wasnt engaging with it at renewal. 
In 2021, RSA added the following warning to Mrs Ms renewal invite:
You've been with us a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover you 
want at a better price if you shop around. Please make sure you are comparing like-for-like 
and you don't lose any of your current policy benefits that are important to you.
So I think RSA gave Mrs M fair warning to shop around and I cant say that it took advantage 
of her lack of engagement with it. 
RSA said the new FCA rules mean that it must offer its renewing customers a price that is no 
more expensive than it would offer them as a new customer. The new rules are in force from 
1 January 2022 and arent applied retrospectively. So Im satisfied that RSA is not obliged to 
offer Mrs M a refund of her previous years premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman