DRN-3737351
The complaint
This complaint has been brought on behalf of the late Mr F and the late Mrs F. Their 
representative says that HSBC UK Bank PLC made them an offer to settle their PPI 
complaint but are now refusing to make the payment
What happened
HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs Fs representative to inform them that they intended to partially 
uphold the PPI complaint but needed the Grant of Representation before they would make 
the payment. This letter, dated November 2020, stated that the refund was likely to be in the 
region of £9,000.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative says she has now provided the document requested but 
HSBC have not paid the £9,000 they said they would pay in November 2020. She is not 
happy that this offer has not been paid. 
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint but felt that HSBC were not required to pay £9,000 
and the amount they have now offered in their letter dated November 2021 is a fair offer for 
the amount of commission paid which was above 50% of Mr Fs monthly PPI premiums.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative is not happy with this outcome, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider. To be clear, this decision centres around whether HSBC have to 
honour the original offer of £9,000 or whether their offer for £2,202.61 is fair. This decision 
has not considered whether the PPI was mis-sold or not. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative says that she spoke to HSBC on the phone and they assured 
her that the offer for £9,000 would be paid within 5 days. She says that she was also told 
that HSBC had lost the Grant of Representation she had sent, so she had to send it again. 
Mr and Mrs Fs representative says this delay caused HSBC to change the offer  and that 
this isnt fair. 
Ive looked carefully at the letter from HSBC dated November 2020. In this HSBC state it is 
minded to partially uphold this offer and that the offer is likely to be in the vicinity of 
£9000. But HSBC have not stated that this is a final offer or that any calculation of an offer 
has even taken place at this point. HSBC asked for the Grant of Representation before an 
offer will be calculated. So, there is nothing here to suggest that the offer is binding. 
In November 2021 when HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs Fs representative again it stated that it 
had reviewed the complaint and felt the policy was not mis-sold to Mr F, so HSBC were not 
refunding all of the PPI premiums paid.
However, HSBC have offered to pay back £2,202.61 for any commission that was more than 
half the cost of Mr Fs PPI policy. And I think the offer theyve made is fair in relation to this 
aspect of the complaint.
My final decision
I do not think HSBC are required to pay the amount offered in their letter of November 2020, 
however, I think their offer in relation to the commission paid on the late Mr Fs PPI 
premiums is a fair way to resolve this aspect of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Mr F 
and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman