DRN-3437202
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he has received from British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas) under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a home emergency policy with British Gas in November 2020, which included 
an annual boiler service. 
Mr H booked an appointment for his boiler service to take place in October 2021 
approximately 12 months after the last one. On the day of the service Mr H says that he 
checked the engineers progress on the British Gas app, but no engineer attended, and he 
was not informed the appointment had been cancelled. The following day he saw on the app 
that the appointment was re-booked for December 2021. He telephoned British Gas to 
complain. He was told that the appointment had been cancelled online a few days before but 
couldnt say who cancelled it or why. He was offered a £10 goodwill gesture for the 
cancelled appointment and a reduction of £26.65 on the cost of his policy which was to be 
deducted equally from his last two outstanding policy payments. Mr H only received one of 
these deductions as he cancelled his policy early.
Mr Hs appointment was subsequently cancelled again and rescheduled for February 2022. 
Before the renewal of his policy, Mr H was informed that his annual premium was to increase 
from £400.07 to £496.39. Mr H was not happy with this as he had not made a claim on the 
policy. He complained to British Gas. He also complained about the cancelled appointments 
and that the annual service didnt take place every 12 months. 
British Gas referred to their terms and conditions and said that the annual service may take 
place more than 12 months from the last service. They also offered to reduce the new policy 
premium to the same level as the previous year. Mr H was not satisfied with the service 
provided by British Gas and cancelled his policy in November 2021. He brought his 
complaint to this service. He thinks that British Gas are not offering an annual boiler service 
and that his premium was increased without cause. He also complains about the poor 
service and cancelled appointments. 
Our investigator looked into the matter and thought that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld 
in part. Having looked at the policy terms and conditions, they didnt think that British Gas 
guaranteed a service every 12 months. However, they thought that the customer service 
provided to Mr H was poor and awarded £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
In relation to the cost of the renewal premium, they didnt think that Mr H had been treated 
any differently to other customers.
Mr H accepted our investigators decision, but British Gas did not. They didnt feel that 
compensation for distress and inconvenience warranted more than £50. They asked for the 
matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Annual service
Mr H thinks that the British Gas policy is misleading as their annual service doesnt take 
place every 12 months. Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. It says that the policy 
includes a first service or an annual service. On page 5 an annual service is defined as a 
check in each period of agreement. Page 28 says Your annual service may be more, or 
less, than 12 months after your last service visit. 
I think these conditions are clear. Whilst I appreciate Mr Hs concern that he isnt getting a 
regular boiler service every 12 months, British Gas doesnt guarantee this. What they say is 
that Mr H is entitled to a service within the period of his annual insurance and that this may 
be more, or less, than 12 months depending upon other demands on the service.
I therefore dont think that British Gas have acted unreasonably by not carrying out the 
service within 12 months of the previous one.
Missed appointment 
There is no dispute that an engineer did not attend on 7 October 2021. British Gas suggest 
that the appointment was cancelled by Mr H as their records show that it was re-arranged 
online. Ive seen the screenshot provided by British Gas, but this doesnt persuade me that 
Mr H made the change himself. There is nothing to indicate that Mr H inputted the details. I 
also think it unlikely that Mr H would have gone to the trouble of complaining to British Gas if 
he was the one to have cancelled the appointment. Ive listened to the telephone call made 
by Mr H to British Gas in October 2021 and Im satisfied by what Mr H says that he didnt 
know about the cancelled appointment.
Mr H is self-employed and had taken an afternoon off work for the boiler to be serviced. 
When he phoned to complain to British Gas the day after, he was clearly upset. He 
explained that he had lost out on work to wait in for the engineer. He said he had not left the 
house between 12 and 6pm. He was also upset to be told that the appointment had actually 
been re-arranged a few days before and that he had not been notified. 
I note that British Gas sent an email to Mr H in November 2021 rearranging the appointment 
in December 2021. Although Mr H was informed of this cancellation in advance, he was 
again not offered any explanation or apology. It appears that the cancellation of this 
appointment also meant that Mr Hs boiler would not have been serviced within the policy 
term. However, as Mr H cancelled his policy in November 2021, British Gas agreed to carry 
out the service which took place in February 2022.
I think that the service provided by British Gas could have been better and I accept that Mr H 
has been caused distress and inconvenience by the cancelled appointment and level of 
service provided. I agree with our investigator that £150 compensation is appropriate. 
Renewal premium
Mr H was concerned that his renewal price for 2021/22 had increased significantly from the 
previous year. When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a large number 
of risk rating factors. British Gas have provided information indicating that certain risk factors 
increased in 2021 which would make the policy more expensive. These would be the same for any customer with a similar aged boiler living in Mr Hs location. British Gas also said that 
Mr H had received a substantial discount on his previous years policy.
It is not for this service to tell insurers how to assess risk or what to charge for insurance. 
However, we are able to consider whether customers have been treated fairly compared to 
other customers in similar circumstances. I cant see that Mr H has been treated differently 
to other customers and therefore dont think that British Gas has acted unreasonably. I also 
note that following his complaint, British Gas agreed to discount the renewal price bringing it 
down to what was paid the previous year. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its poor service caused 
him
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman