DRN-3169369
The complaint
Miss A complains Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund her an amount paid on her debit 
card for flights which were cancelled.
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and was outlined clearly in 
our investigators assessment, so I wont go into great detail here. In summary:
In January 2020 Miss A used the debit card linked to her Barclays bank account to 
pay for flights booked through a well known travel agency I will call S. The flights 
cost £561.77 and Miss A was due to depart on 15 March 2020, returning on 23 
March 2020.
The flights were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. S informed Miss A she 
was entitled to a full refund. She chased them for a refund but this didnt materialise. 
S then went into administration in August 2020.
Miss A then approached Barclays to claim a refund. Barclays attempted to dispute 
the payment to S by raising a chargeback, and temporarily credited Miss As 
account while this process was ongoing.
The chargeback was rejected due to it being attempted too long after the flights were 
meant to have been provided. As a result, Barclays reversed the temporary refund 
theyd made.
This prompted a complaint from Miss A. Barclays agreed it had made a mistake  it 
said it should never have raised a chargeback in the first place. It paid Miss A £200 
compensation, but didnt agree to refund the payment for the flights.
Miss A was dissatisfied with the banks response to her complaint, so she referred it to this 
service for an independent assessment. One of our investigators looked into it. He 
concluded the following:
Barclays had to follow the rules set by Visa when attempting to raise chargebacks via 
the dispute resolution scheme operated by Visa. It wasnt under an obligation to 
attempt a chargeback if it would go against the rules, or wouldnt have any prospect 
of success.
One of the rules said a chargeback for a service which hadnt been received, needed 
to be made within 120 days of the date the service was meant to have been 
provided. By the time Miss A had contacted the bank to dispute the payment, this 
window of opportunity had already passed, so a chargeback couldnt have been 
successful.
Visa had issued guidance during the pandemic which explained that it was not 
extending any of the time limits in its rules.
Barclays had made an error in attempting the chargeback but had made up for its 
mistake by apologising and paying £200 compensation. 
Our investigator concluded Barclays didnt need to do anything more to resolve the 
complaint. Miss A was unhappy with this outcome and appealed our investigators 
assessment. She said she didnt know about the rules and that shed believed S were going 
to refund her, so shed not contacted the bank earlier. She thought Barclays should have 
made an exception.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Miss A has been left out of pocket through no fault of her own, I am deciding a 
complaint about Barclays and I therefore need to consider whether the bank did something 
wrong. For the same reasons our investigator explained, I think the banks only error was 
attempting to dispute Miss As payment to S when there was no hope of getting a refund for 
her. The bank apologised for this mistake and paid £200 compensation.
When a person makes a payment for goods or services using a debit card, their bank may 
be able to help them in limited circumstances if they havent received what they paid for. The 
bank can raise a dispute (usually known as a chargeback) with the bank which accepted 
the card payment.
A chargeback is not something a consumer can demand that their bank attempt, but when 
faced with a person requesting assistance with a disputed card transaction I would expect 
the bank to consider attempting a chargeback, and to do so if there was a reasonable 
prospect of it succeeding. 
As Ive suggested above, chargebacks are not always successful. There are rules which 
must be followed for chargebacks, and these are set by the card networks. Chargebacks can 
be opposed (defended) by the recipient bank if they think the rules have not been observed. 
One aspect of the rules concerns the window of time, following a card transaction, in which a 
chargeback must be attempted.
The rules which applied at the time of Miss As transaction said that a chargeback needed to 
be attempted within 120 days of the date the service in question was meant to have been 
provided by, so long as this was no more than 540 days from the date of the debit card 
transaction. As our investigator noted, Visa did not agree to extend any of these time limits 
during the pandemic. 
In Miss As case, her flights were due to depart and return in March 2020, so a chargeback 
would need to have been raised by some time in July 2020. Unfortunately, by the time she 
got in touch with Barclays to tell them about the problem, it was already too late.
I realise Miss A didnt know about the rules, but that doesnt change the fact they exist and 
that Barclays had to follow them. If they didnt follow the rules the chargeback would in 
nearly all cases simply be rejected anyway, which is in fact what happened in Miss As case. 
I dont think it would be fair to require the bank to refund the transaction when there was no way for it to claim the money back for Miss A. It has apologised and paid compensation for 
incorrectly telling her the payment could be disputed, and causing her some distress and 
inconvenience when it took back the temporary refund, which left her in an overdraft. I think 
that is enough so I wont ask Barclays to pay any further redress.
I do have considerable sympathy for Miss A. It seems she was led to believe that S would 
refund her and so it was very unlucky that, by the time it became apparent this wouldnt 
happen, it was too late for the bank to do anything about it.
There may however be other avenues Miss A can explore to try to get her money back. Its 
my view that Miss As purchase was not a package holiday as defined in the relevant law, 
because she only bought flights (along with a pre-paid Mastercard which I wouldnt conclude 
made the purchase a package). This means it is likely she had a direct contract with the 
airlines involved in her travel arrangements. ABTA published advice for consumers in August 
2020 which suggests that, as she bought flights only, Miss A could approach the airlines for 
a refund.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I think Barclays Bank UK PLC had already done enough to 
resolve Miss As complaint before she referred the matter to this service. It follows that I do 
not uphold her complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman