DRN-2528343
The complaint
This complaint is about a residential mortgage Mr F took out with Accord Mortgage Limited 
in 2007. Mr F is unhappy with how Accord treated him during long-term financial difficulties. 
His property was eventually taken into possession in 2018 and sold for less than the 
outstanding mortgage debt. 
Mr F believes Accords treatment of him was more than just unfair; he say it repeatedly 
broke the law. Hes claiming compensation of £375,000, the clearance of his credit file, an 
admission by Accord that possession was a mistake and the post-possession shortfall 
written off.
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties (the evidence runs to nearly 
800 pages (albeit theres a lot of duplication of documents and repetition of arguments) so I 
wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. My role allows me to take this approach.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and to clarify what I fear may be a misunderstanding on 
Mr Fs part, were not the FCA. Were the Financial Ombudsman Service and we deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate 
the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. 
That remit doesnt allow me to decide whether or not a business has broken the law. All I 
can do, having regard for relevant law, regulation and what is considered good business 
practice at the appropriate time(s), is decide if a business has treated a consumer fairly. In 
doing that, I can pay no regard to any hindsight that subsequent events might bring.
Mr F has spoken very openly about the impact of the past years events on him personally, 
and on his family. I dont repeat the details here, to preserve his and his familys privacy, but 
Ive noted what hes said, and am aware of the very serious nature of some of the events 
hes described. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Mr Fs long-term financial difficulties
Providing forbearance for those in hardship is a regulatory duty, but inevitably, theres a 
subjective element to assessing the extent to which that duty has been met. A lender and a 
borrower will typically have very different ideas of what reasonable forbearance should be; 
meanwhile, treating customers fairly doesnt simply mean agreeing to what they want. Also, 
when a lender is considering a current set of circumstances, it will also take account of 
historic conduct.
The starting point here is that Mr F first fell into arrears in 2011. His financial difficulties 
stemmed from a variety of factors; examples include:
having to pay rent on another property as well as the mortgage after his family outgrew 
the mortgaged property following the birth of his second child;
fluctuating income as he tried to develop his new business;
being unable to work - and earn  for a long time following a car accident in 2013; and
loss of income when his partner was on maternity leave in 2014 with their fourth child. 
For several years, Mr F was able to keep the arrears under a degree of control; they tended 
periodically to increase towards the equivalent of three months worth of payments, and then 
be cleared by way of a lump sum. I can see from the account history that this happened in 
January 2012, December 2014, and June 2015. 
From June 2015, monthly payments of £400 were regularly made and the arrears remained 
at a relatively low level  less than one months payment  until the spring of 2017. No 
payment was made in March 2017, £200 was paid in April 2017, and nothing at all was paid 
in the next three months. £400 was paid in August 2017, but that was the last credit received 
before the property was taken into possession and sold.
Up to the spring of 2017, the dialogue between Mr F and Accord was much as Id expect it to 
be; periodic discussion of his situation to establish the cause of a current spell of arrears, 
and assessment of his financial situation to decide if a plan of action was required. On each 
occasion, however, Mr F was able to clear the arrears before they reached a level that 
warranted Accord having to do more than it did. It follows I dont find there to have been any 
failure on Accords part to have done more.
It was in February 2017, that Mr F applied for consent to let, so its appropriate that I go 
there next. But just before I do, I note Mr F regards the use of income and expenditure 
analyses as an inadequate instrument for someone whose income fluctuated widely. I take 
his point, but this is an industry-wide practice approved by the regulator.
The application for consent to let
Lenders grant residential mortgages on the understanding that the borrower will occupy the 
mortgaged property. The contract allows for consent to let to be granted, but as it represents 
a different risk for the lender, consent is very much at the discretion of the lender. Accord 
declined Mr Fs application initially, because the letting agent he had chosen to use wasnt a 
member of one of the trade bodies specified in the mortgage conditions. In and of itself, that was a reasonable exercise of commercial judgement on Accords part; 
whilst consent to let shouldnt be unreasonably withheld, its not a right. It was for Mr F to 
meet Accords requirements, and at this point he hadnt. What happened next takes us into 
the next stage of the complaint; that is, Mr Fs proposal in August 2017 for clearing the 
arrears and how Accord dealt with it.
Mr Fs proposal for clearing the arrears
In August 2017; Mr F made a proposal to clear the arrears on terms that Ive summarised as 
follows:
Accord to review the interest rate on the mortgage, and refund extra interest charged 
since the first consent to let request was refused; and
Accord to grant consent to let and advise him which letting agents (from a list of names 
hed provided) would best meet its requirements.
If those conditions were met, he said his father would clear the current arrears (around 
£3,000) in full.
The main thrust of Mr Fs argument for all that happened thereafter being unfair and lawful is 
that he says Accord breached a legal requirement to respond to that offer in writing. I remind 
the parties that my remit is to decide whats fair rather than whether the law had been 
broken, and Ill come to that shortly; first of all, Ill deal with how Accord did respond, which 
was to leave a series of voicemail messages, and send a letter, all asking Mr F to make 
contact and have a discussion with it.
It wasnt up to Mr F to impose conditions on Accord for the repayment of his arrears, nor up 
to Accord to meet any such conditions. Mr F already had a contractual  and unconditional  
obligation to pay his mortgage. Viewed in that context, I dont find that Accord did anything 
wrong at all in the way it responded to Mr Fs proposal asking him to contact it for a 
discussion. 
The situation needed a discussion, not least so that Accord might point out that Mr F wasnt 
in a position to impose conditions and that, other than requiring membership of one of the 
specified trade bodies, it wasnt its job to vet and approve a letting agent for him. Also, by 
then, there wasnt just the issue of the consent to let to deal with; Mr F had combined with it 
a challenge to the interest rate Accord was charging him.
All of that required a dialogue before Accord could agree (or not) to the August 2017 
proposal, whether in writing or by any other medium it considered appropriate to the 
circumstances. I understand Mr Fs point that his health situation made phone conversations 
difficult and distressing. But there was nothing to stop him from asking someone to act for 
him (his partner perhaps or maybe a representative of a debt charity) and authorising Accord 
to have the discussion with his proxy.
Mr F says its wrong to place the onus on him to make further contact when Accord hadnt 
met its legal obligation to reply in writing. As Ive said, its not up to me to decide if the law 
has been broken, and Ive explained in the preceding paragraph why Im satisfied Accords 
response wasnt unfair. 
As to whether its then fair to place the onus back on Mr F to try something else, the answer 
to that is quite straightforward. The August 2017 proposal might have required discussion 
but it wasnt, as Mr F has characterised it, the first stage in a negotiation process. Put simply; 
he owed Accord money. If Mr F had other possible means of paying the arrears (hes suggested he could have come 
up with other ways if Accord had written to reject his August 2017 proposal) then the onus 
was very much on him to act pragmatically and pro-actively, if only to protect his own 
interests and mitigate his situation. 
But I reiterate that any further proposal he might have come up with could not reasonably 
impose conditions on Accord. Insofar as Mr F is on record as saying the gift from his father 
was conditional on Accord doing what he wanted it to, I find it highly unlikely that an 
agreement could have been reached that might have avoided what happened next.
The decision to start possession proceedings
Possession is rightly regarded as an action of last resort. When a lender does that, its 
generally because it has reached the conclusion that things arent likely to get better in the 
foreseeable future. 
Everything has a context, and when I view the decision to litigate against the conduct of the 
account in its entirety  and not just against the immediate situation at the time it was taken 
 it seems to me there was nothing unfair about it. 
Unlike in previous years, the arrears had grown dramatically during 2017, and other than 
£200 in March and £400 in August 2017, Mr F had to all intents and purposes stopped 
paying altogether after the consent to let application had been rejected. Alongside that, Mr F 
hadnt responded to attempts to contact him to discuss the August 2017 proposal. 
In deciding the point of last resort had been reached, Accord exercised its commercial 
judgement. It was entitled to do that, and whilst Ive no doubt it was unwelcome to Mr F, I 
cant say it was unfair or that I should second guess the banks judgement and find it to have 
been hasty. 
The conduct of, and outcome to, the possession proceedings
I said earlier that we dont replicate the work of the courts. It doesnt fall within my remit to 
consider anything Mr F has said about how the court hearing was conducted or the accuracy 
and/or truthfulness of Accords evidence in the hearing. Whilst I appreciate Mr Fs 
understandable distress, Im precluded from commenting on an observation apparently 
made by Accords solicitor in court to the effect that possession wouldnt adversely affect him 
because he didnt live in the mortgage property.
In any event, Mr F was present at the hearing. I take his point that his health prevented him 
from arguing his case fully, but hes explained that the judge made sure he was represented 
there. I appreciate Mr F didnt feel that his representative argued his case well, but I cant 
second guess whether or to what extent the courts decision might have been different from 
what it was if the evidence from either party had been different. Only the court that granted 
the order could do that.
The sale of the property in possession
Once in possession, Accords duty was to sell the property for the best price achievable 
within a reasonable period of time (my italics). It may be a rather subjective test but the 
approach we take, in essence, is that a lender shouldnt sell for too low a price to achieve a 
quick sale nor unduly delay a sale (thus potentially adding further to the borrowers interest 
costs) to achieve an unrealistically high price.Its about finding a balance between the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders are 
required to obtain a minimum of two independent valuations from suitably-qualified 
professionals, and then to market the property with a view to achieving a selling price at, or 
close to, the valuations provided by those independent professionals. In the case of Mr Fs 
property, Im satisfied thats what Accord did.
The higher of the two valuations Accord received was £35,000, the lower was £33,000. The 
property was marketed asking for offers over £33,000, and the property sold for £35,500. 
I think that outcome was reasonable given the valuations. Ultimately, any property is only 
worth what someone is willing to pay for it at any given time. 
Here, a sale was achieved for more than the higher of the two valuations. Given the 
timeframe, I consider the sale was completed at the best price achievable, bearing in mind 
that the mortgage continued to accrue interest until the sale was completed. 
My remit doesnt extend to questioning the content of the valuation reports. These were the 
professional opinions of the parties Accord was required to consult. It was entitled to rely on 
those opinions when deciding how much to try and sell the property for. 
Putting all of the above together, my overall conclusion is that the shortfall is a valid debt for 
which Accord can fairly hold Mr F liable and can fairly seek repayment proposals from him.
Other matters
Lenders are required to report factually accurate information to credit reference agencies; 
wed typically only require a lender to amend its reporting if the information was either 
inaccurate or, whilst accurate, reflected something that happened because the lender had 
done something wrong. 
The evidence Ive seen doesnt point to any of the information Accord has reported to credit 
reference agencies about Mr Fs mortgage being factually inaccurate. Meanwhile, Ive not 
found Accord to have done something wrong that resulted in adverse information being 
reported. It follows that theres no reason for to order Accord to amend any of the information 
it has reported in respect of Mr Fs mortgage account.
Mr F has taken issue with Accords use of email and postal addresses when communicating 
with him. He says its breached data protection law and left him vulnerable to having his 
personal information fall into the hands of others. Matters of data protection generally fall 
under the remit of the Information Commissioners Office rather than the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Its only a matter for me in the context of whether I have enough information to decide the 
complaint fairly within the scope of my remit, and Im satisfied I have. Lastly on this point, if 
Mr F thinks he was denied access to information that might have been beneficial to him in 
the possession hearing, that goes back to what I said earlier about my not second-guessing 
the outcome of the hearing if difference evidence had been presented.
Mr Fs said that a decision he took in 2017 to improve his circumstances by embarking on a 
higher education course has been vindicated by him having subsequently obtained a degree 
qualification and secured a well-paid job. Thats a good outcome for him of which he should 
be justly proud, but it isnt something that has a bearing on the fairness or otherwise of the 
decisions Accord took in 2017. As I said earlier in this decision, I cant take hindsight into 
account.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on the outcome. I can see from his submissions the intensity with which Mr F has brought the 
complaint. He sees error or wrong-doing in almost everything the business has done (or not 
done). He attributes almost every recent event thats impacted adversely on him and his 
family to Accord not consenting to let the property out and then taking possession of it. 
Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable, but it ignores the 
unconnected contribution of other parties that breaks any chain of causation between 
events. Just one example of that is the decision of Mr Fs landlord to sell the property he and 
his family were renting, thus requiring them to relocate to a new home that hes described as 
wholly unsuitable. That had nothing to do with Accord and couldnt possibly have been 
foreseen by it. 
I understand that its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments that 
appear to support a particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to 
those that support the opposite viewpoint. But look hard enough and its possible to find 
inconsistencies and/or anomalies in what both sides have said and done from time to time. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively, sometimes taking a step back and focussing on the broader picture. 
Thats what Ive done. Having done so, I cant find in Mr Fs favour, however much hed like 
me to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman