DRN-3114778
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd retained his debit card details on 
its systems despite being asked not to. Mr W also complains that his current address was 
shared with third parties without consent. 
  
What happened
In April 2021 Mr W called Lantern and made a payment. During the call, Mr W was asked if 
Lantern could keep his card details for future payments. Mr W didnt give his consent. Mr W 
has explained that when he called to make another payment, he was asked if he wanted to 
use the same card details and went on to raise a complaint. 
Mr W has also complained that someone at Lantern sold his personal information, including 
address, to a third party. 
Lantern sent Mr W its final response and apologised that card information had been 
retained. Lantern said it only kept the last four digits of Mr Ws card details and that it 
wouldnt have been possible to make a payment using the information it kept on its records. 
Lantern also said it hadnt found anything to show a member of staff had sold Mr Ws details. 
To apologise for not explaining that some information would be retained after Mr W made a 
payment Lantern offered to reduce his outstanding balance by £50. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Lanterns offer of £50 was a fair way to resolve Mr Ws complaint but said he should 
have the option of receiving it directly, instead of using it to reduce the balance. 
Mr W asked to appeal and said he didnt agree £50 fairly reflected the level of distress 
caused. As Mr W asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to Mr Ws calls with Lantern and I understand he was led to believe his card 
details wouldnt be recorded on its payment system. Lanterns explained that it did keep 
some of Mr Ws card information, but not enough to make another payment. Mr Ws told us 
his data has been breached previously and that he was very distressed when he found 
Lantern had kept some of his card details. 
Id like to thank Mr W for giving us details of why hes particularly upset by the issues raised. 
I understand why Mr W is so upset. But I have to be fair to both parties. Ive listened to Mr 
Ws call and can hear the handler asked if Lantern could retain his card details to take the 
following payment. Mr Ws response was to ask whether he could pay online instead. Mr W 
didnt specifically say Lantern should delete all payment information from its systems. So 
whilst I agree the call handler couldve made it clearer that some card details would be 
retained, I think this was a genuine misunderstanding between the parties involved rather 
than a deliberate attempt to mislead. 
I understand Mr W has concerns that someone at Lantern accessed his private information 
and sold it to a third party. Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but I havent seen any evidence that 
shows Lanterns staff sold his information. Lantern says it has systems in place to stop staff 
unnecessarily accessing customer information and that theres nothing to indicate Mr Ws 
details have been compromised. Without any information that links Lantern directly to the 
details in question, Im unable to agree its treated Mr W unfairly. 
Ive considered everything Mr W has told us about how the issue affected him. I can see Mr 
W has been caused some upset because Lantern failed to fully explain what information it 
keeps when a card payment is made. But Im satisfied £50 is a fair reflection of the trouble 
and upset caused to Mr W. I agree with the investigator that Mr W should have the option of 
receiving the £50 settlement directly instead of Lantern using it to reduce the outstanding 
balance. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd to 
pay Mr W £50.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman