DRN-4315170
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and the terms werent properly 
explained to him.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr M with a loan for £2,000.00 in January 2021. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £118.02. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what  Mr M and 118 118 Money had told us. And he 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. 
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr M could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr M has said he 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Ms first loan with 118 118 Money. And         
118 118 Money has provided an output of the income and expenditure information recorded 
at the time of Mr Ms application as well as a record of the results of its credit searches.
118 118 Moneys searches appear to show that Mr M did have some existing debts. 
Furthermore, he had been over the limit on one of his revolving credit accounts in some 
months prior to this application. However, the account in question had since had any arrears 
cleared. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Ms debt total at the time of the 
application wasnt excessive in comparison to his income. 
I accept that Mr M appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances werent fully 
reflected either in the information hes provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained 
at the time. 
But 118 118 Money could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. And as this was a first loan and there wasnt anything to indicate that 
Mr M might have been experiencing financial difficulty at the time, Im satisfied that 118 118 
Money was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr M could afford to make his payments. 
I also accept that it is possible  but not certain that 118 118 Money might have reached a 
different conclusion on whether to provide this loan had it seen Mr Ms bank statements. But 
given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended any further than finding out a bit 
more about Mr Ms normal monthly living costs, which, from what I can see, wouldnt have 
shown the loan to be unaffordable. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr M  in my view, proportionate checks would more likely than not have suggested 
the repayments were affordable. 
Ive also seen what Mr M has said about his circumstances meaning that 118 118 Money 
should have taken more care to explain the terms and in particular the cost of this loan 
before lending to him. 
However, Ive not seen anything to indicate that Mr M made 118 118 Money aware of his 
particular circumstances. And its difficult to say that 118 118 Money should have done more 
here, particular as the APR, total amount of interest and monthly payments are all clearly set 
out on the loan agreement Mr M electronically signed. As this is the case, I dont think that 
118 118 Money did anything wrong in relation to this matter either.
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman