DRN-2518244
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank Plc have handled a chargeback claim for him.
What happened
Mr B was looking to make a lump sum payment towards a personal loan he had. While using 
the loan companys website to see the impact different lump sum payments could have 
towards his outstanding balance, a payment was accidentally submitted for the full amount 
of the outstanding loan (£2,471.69) - using Mr Bs debit card. Lloyds has said the transaction 
to the loan company was made on 1 July 2019.
Mr B says he called the loan provider straight away and was told it wasnt able to reverse the
payment for him so he would need to speak to his bank to request the funds back. Mr B says
the loan company had no objection to him reclaiming the full £2,471.69, as he says the loan
company recognised the payment error was to do with a fault on its website.
Mr B says he then contacted Lloyds on the same day to explain what happened.
On 2 July 2019 Lloyds processed a chargeback claim for the full amount of £2,471.69, and
in the interim credited Mr Bs account with this amount. At the same time Lloyds let Mr B
know that if the merchant (the loan provider) defended the claim then it was possible the
funds would be taken back out of his account.
Neither party has provided this service with any communications from the loan provider. And
there is no evidence of the loan provider defending the claim.
Mr B has said that on the understanding he was going to get the full amount back he went
ahead and agreed payments for the outstanding loan with the loan provider. And it seems
from the submissions he then used some of the monies originally returned to him to pay
towards his holiday.
Lloyds says around 30 July 2019, following a review of their records, they realised theyd
processed the chargeback claim incorrectly. The amount of £2,471.69 was therefore re-
debited from Mr Bs account and £1,000 was returned to his account instead. This was
because Lloyds had understood, from what Mr B told them, that Mr Bs intention was to
make a lump sum payment of £1,471.69 towards his loan, but had overpaid by £1,000 due
to the error on the loan providers website.
Again theres nothing to suggest the loan provider defended the claim when Lloyds corrected
their mistake.
Mr B contacted Lloyds after realising what had happened. He raised a complaint to say
Lloyds had told him he would get all his money back and it now appeared that they were
wrong. Mr B said the error caused him financial difficulties including being unable to pay for
petrol in order to work as well as being unable to meet other important financial
commitments. He said he had relied on what Lloyds had first told him.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint as they said theyd followed the chargeback rules
correctly and said neither calls with Mr B that took place when the chargeback claim was first
raised confirmed that he would get the full amount of £2,471.69 back. However, Lloyds said
they couldve been clearer in explaining that theyd only be claiming the difference between
the full redemption figure for the loan and Mr Bs intended payment of £1,471.69. And for this
reason they offered Mr B £30 to reflect the trouble this had caused him.
Mr B strongly disagreed and so brought his case to this service.
Our investigator initially concluded Mr Bs complaint should not be upheld. The investigator
felt Lloyds offer was fair in the circumstances. Mr B disagreed as he maintained Lloyds had
told him hed get the full amount back. Mr B particularly disagreed with the investigator that
he should have been aware that he would only receive the difference between the intended
payment and the full redemption amount for the loan. Mr B pointed out that he was not
familiar with what a chargeback was and was reliant on what the bank told him.
Our investigator reviewed matters once more. They explained to Mr B that Lloyds had said
chargeback claims were not a process that could be used to reclaim a payment made in
error. And they suggested Mr B may be able to obtain the £1,471.69 directly from the loan
provider. However, the investigator recognised the trouble caused by Lloyds correcting the
chargeback claim and proposed Lloyds offer be increased to £100. Lloyds didnt agree to
this. And Mr B requested an ombudsman review the case.
I issued my provisional findings to Mr B and Lloyds explaining why I thought the 
investigators proposed offer of £100 was fair in the circumstances. A copy of my provisional 
findings is below.
 
my provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, but for
slightly different reasons as I will explain below.
To be clear, my considerations are limited to whether Lloyds has acted fairly in the
circumstances of this complaint. My involvement is not to look at any dispute between Mr B
and the loan provider.
On 1 July 2020 Mr B came to Lloyds with a problem that a payment had been made to his
loan provider that was incorrect. Ive listened to the available calls and Mr B does say that he
intended to pay £1,471.69 towards the outstanding loan amount, but due to an error on the
loan providers website the full redemption figure had been taken.
I do note what Mr B has said about his impression from the calls. That is, he would get
everything back and then he would sort things out himself directly with the loan provider. I
can see why Mr B could have this impression given no actual amounts were mentioned. But,
I dont think this takes away from Lloyds initial and overall understanding that there was a
dispute as Mr B had overpaid towards his loan.
Based on this understanding I therefore dont think it was wrong of Lloyds to have chosen
the chargeback process as the most appropriate means to attempt reclaiming Mr Bs
monies. Mr B had accepted hed authorised the payment and hed already gone to the loan
provider who, at that time, had been unable to help. So it seems the dispute was about the
difference between what Mr B had wanted to pay and what he actually paid. And thechargeback rules allowed Lloyds to make a claim for such an incorrect payment.
It may help to explain the chargeback process a little at this point. Chargeback is a process
under the relevant card scheme, set up to settle disputes between card issuers and
merchants. But sometimes, behind those disputes, there is a problem between the
cardholder and the merchant which the chargeback scheme can help to resolve informally.
Such card schemes are voluntary, and the chargeback process is run by the card scheme.
The card scheme also sets out the rules when a chargeback is allowed as well as what the
requirements are for the parties involved.
In this case, Lloyds applied the chargeback rules of the scheme to dispute an incorrect
amount that had been paid. I think this was the most appropriate rule for them to have used
in the circumstances and based on what theyd understood the situation to be from Mr B.
Mr B seems to accept that submitting a chargeback claim is subject to the card scheme rules
and that the initial claim therefore should have been for the difference between the intended
payment and the actual payment. But Mr B is unhappy that he was given wrong information
by Lloyds initially and says he relied on this to his detriment.
Ive given careful consideration to what Mr B has said.
Its unfortunate Lloyds incorrectly processed the chargeback claim at first, but it doesnt
automatically follow Lloyds now needs to pay Mr B the original chargeback amount they
processed. And its difficult for me to say Mr B has actually lost out because of Lloyds initial
error.
I say this because it seems the outstanding monies are more likely than not still with the loan
provider. There is no suggestion from Lloyds that they have the funds and their available
paperwork, to do with the chargeback, is now very limited. Mr B has not been able to be
clear on where that money is either. And as Ive said, neither party has been able to provide
any correspondence from the loan provider. So at this time I can only assume that it may be
held by the loan provider in a separate account, or it could already have been used in some
way towards Mr Bs outstanding loan. If the latter, then Mr B will have already had the benefit
of that sum.
Ive also considered Mr Bs actions after the initial chargeback claim was submitted and
when the full amount was first returned to him.
When Lloyds processed the first chargeback claim they let Mr B know that although the
funds were being returned to his account, it was possible that the loan provider could defend
the claim and any refund could therefore be taken back. In effect it wasnt yet guaranteed
funds in Mr Bs account.
While Mr B may say he was confident the loan provider wouldnt defend the claim, this was
still a risk Lloyds made Mr B aware of in terms of the chargeback process.
With this in mind, it seems Mr B still chose to use the returned funds within a short time of
them being put into his account. Theres some suggestion from Mr B that at least some of
that money was used towards a holiday he was about to take in the next few days. But Im
not aware of any attempt from Mr B to make the lump sum payment towards the loan as he
first intended.
Mr B may have changed his mind about making a payment to his loan and used the monies
for other things. But I cant ignore that it seems the funds were not yet guaranteed in his
account when he chose to spend them.Taking everything into account I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to submit a chargeback
claim based on their understanding of what Mr B had told them. But they did make an error
as they initially processed the chargeback claim incorrectly and I think they could have been
clearer with Mr B what amount they would attempt to claim back on his behalf. Following
this, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to correct their error.
As Ive explained though, its difficult for me to say Mr B has lost out. And I think Mr B should
now approach his loan provider separately to discuss the matter.
However, as Lloyds made an error when initially processing the chargeback claim and they
could have been clearer with Mr B in their handling of the claim, I think the £100 proposed by
our investigator is fair to recognise the inconvenience this error has caused Mr B in the
circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Lloyds accepted my provisional findings. 
Despite attempts to contact Mr B, he did not provide any response to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me with any further evidence or submissions to consider I see 
no reason to alter my conclusions as set out in my provisional decision.
 
Lloyds error in how they initially processed Mr Bs chargeback claim could have been better, 
so they should pay him £100 to recognise the inconvenience this caused him. However, for 
the reasons Ive explained above, Ive not seen enough to say Lloyds should pay Mr B 
anything further.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank Plc should pay Mr B £100.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc should pay Mr B £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman