DRN-3441231
The complaint
Miss P says Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Littlewoods, irresponsibly lent 
to her.
What happened
Miss P applied for a catalogue shopping account in June 2012. Shop Direct accepted her 
application and gave her an initial credit limit of £500. The credit limit was increased 12 times 
reaching £3,700 in July 2015. By March 2019 it had been reduced, in three stages, to £600. 
It appears the limit was reduced due to the level of card use, rather than any repayment 
problems on the account.
Miss P says Shop Direct increased her limit very quickly without making sure she could 
afford it.
Our investigator did not think Shop Direct had lent irresponsibly to Miss P. She explained 
that she had only considered the limit increases up to £1,300 in July 2013 as Miss Ps 
balance had never exceed that amount. She found Shop Directs checks did not show any 
signs that the credit would be unaffordable for Miss P.
Miss P disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our
approach to these complaints is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
Prior to providing credit to Miss P, Shop Direct carried out a credit check using a credit 
agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. And for the credit limit 
increases Shop Direct assessed the spending and payment activity on Miss Ps account on 
a monthly basis. The credit limit increases were set using that information.
Shop Direct has told us there were no signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it 
did. It has shared the results of the checks it carried out and having reviewed them I dont 
think there is anything to suggest that it would have been reasonable for Shop Direct not 
have to have approved Miss Ps application. Shop Direct didnt ask about Miss Ps income, 
and this may have helped it begin to build a picture of Miss Ps financial circumstances. But 
even if it had, at this stage, I dont think it would have made a difference to its decision to 
extend the credit. I say this because whilst the credit check showed Miss P had clearly had 
some historic financial difficulties - there were defaults registered against her and a CCJ 
(County Court Judgment) - the CCJ was 97 months old and all her active accounts had been 
up-to-date for the last 24 months. Her live credit limit was low at £300 and no other searches 
were registered against her file in the previous six months. So in the round I think it was fair 
for Shop Direct to conclude Miss Ps finances had stabilised and for it to offer her an opening 
limit of £500. 
I have then considered the credit limit increases. As the investigator explained Miss Ps 
balance never exceeded £1,300  the amount her limit was increased to in July 2013 and so 
I have only reviewed that decision and the three prior limit increases in December 2012 
(£600), March 2013 (£850) and May 2013 (£1,100). I do not need to reach a conclusion on 
whether the subsequent credit limits were reasonable or not. I say this because any redress 
we would award is designed to put someone back in the position they would have been in if 
any failing on the part of the lender had not happened. In this case Miss Ps credit usage 
never exceeded the July 2013 credit limit of £1,300. As such, even were I to think the later 
credit increases were unreasonable, there would not be any redress to pay. Miss P would 
have suffered no financial loss as a result of the actions of Shop Direct.
Before increasing Miss Ps limit Shop Direct each time reviewed how she was using her 
account. I have some concerns with this approach as its not clear to me why a
borrower who is able to successfully manage a given credit limit can then automatically be
deemed, without further checks at the time of the decision, to be able to successfully
manage a higher limit. It seems to me that this logic would likely lead to continually
increasing limits, unless or until problems arise. I think that it would have been helpful for 
Shop Direct to have found out more about Miss Ps financial situation on each occasion so 
that it could verify her income and committed expenditure. But I dont think from the 
information we have about Miss Ps financial situation at the time is enough for me to be able 
to find that had Shop Direct carried out additional proportionate checks, it would have found 
these credit limit increases to be unsustainable.
At the time of the each of these limits I can see that Miss P had met her contractual 
repayments each month, incurred no fees and her balance had been significantly under the 
limit every month since the account was opened. So I can to an extent see why this may 
have led Shop Direct to conclude that Miss P was managing the account well. And although 
I dont think that this, in itself, means that Shop Direct knew Miss P was in a position to 
sustainably repay an increased balance within a reasonable period, I find that the decision to 
increase Miss Ps credit limit at these times wasnt unreasonable based on the available 
evidence.
It follows I do not find Shop Direct needs to take any action to compensate Miss P.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman