DRN-1783713
The complaint
Mr B and Ms P complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. hasnt paid a claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Ms P were due to fly abroad in early May 2019. Unfortunately, due to a terrorist 
incident in late April 2019 in the country theyd booked to travel to, the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) issued guidance warning against all but essential travel to that 
country. So they cancelled their flights.
The airline refunded Mr B and Ms Ps airfare and taxes. But it deducted a refund fee of 
£380 from the payment. So Mr B and Ms P made a claim for this amount under the 
cancellation section of their travel insurance policy.
Mapfre said the policy specifically excluded administration fees and charges. It asked Mr B 
and Ms P if they could provide a more detailed breakdown of what the refund fee the airline 
had charged was for. The airline said it wasnt able to break down the fee any further. As 
Mapfre had said it couldnt settle the claim without this information, Mr B and Ms P asked us 
to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr B and Ms Ps complaint should be upheld. Wed contacted the 
airline which had explained that in situations like Mr B and Ms Ps, it didnt charge an 
administration fee. It simply charged a cancellation fee. The policy exclusion Mapfre was 
relying on not to pay Mr B and Ms Ps claim didnt include cancellation charges. So the 
investigator thought Mapfre should deal with the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Mapfre disagreed. It said the policy specifically excluded administration fees. The airline had 
deducted a cancellation fee from the refund, which it said was a standard administration fee.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mapfre has treated Mr B and Ms P fairly. Ill explain why.
Mr B and Ms P have claimed under the cancellation section of their travel insurance policy. 
This covers travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to pay 
under a contract and which you cannot get back. Its clear that following the cancellation of 
their flights, Mr B and Ms P havent been refunded for £380 of the cost of their pre-booked 
flights. 
Mapfre says the refund fee the airline deducted is caught by the following exclusion which 
applies to cancellation claims:
We will not cover the following
Any air passenger duty (APD) charges made by a scheduled airline as part of your booking, 
ATOL protection fees and any administration fees included in the cost of the flight booking or 
refund process.
I accept that the refund receipt the airline sent Mr B and Ms P wasnt particularly clear as to 
what the refund fee was made up of. So I can understand why it mightve wanted a more 
detailed breakdown, to check whether there were any administration fees included.
But the airline has now confirmed to us that it only charges an administration fee if a 
customer cancels their flight and chooses to re-book their ticket. If a ticket is cancelled and it 
isnt rebooked though, then it doesnt apply an administration charge. It simply applies a 
cancellation fee. As Mr B and Ms P didnt rebook their ticket, it seems that no administration 
charge was deducted from their refund amount. It appears only a cancellation fee was 
applied.
The list of charges excluded in the policy terms dont include cancellation fees. Theres 
nothing to suggest these charges were ATOL charges and it looks like taxes were refunded. 
So I dont think the policy terms do exclude the cancellation fees that were applied to Mr B 
and Ms Ps refund from the airline.
Mapfre thinks the cancellation fees are industry standard administration fees and therefore, 
maintains that these costs shouldnt be paid. But given the airline itself said it hadnt charged 
Mr B and Ms P an administration fee, it seems the cancellation fee is a separate charge and 
isnt caught by the exclusion. 
So overall, I think Mapfre hasnt considered this claim fairly. And Ive decided it now needs to 
deal with the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A to deal 
with Mr B and Ms Ps claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It 
must also add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to any settlement it pays.
If Mapfre considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B and Ms P how much its taken off. It should 
also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman