DRN-2164483
The complaint
Miss S says Provident Personal Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly. She says that she 
couldnt afford the loan repayments. She thinks Provident shouldve seen this and not lent to 
her.
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans Provident provided to Miss S between 
February 2006 and January 2014.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 18/02/2006 £200 55 03/03/2007
2 17/06/2006 £100 55 21/07/2007
3 20/07/2013 £100 14 08/10/2013
4 03/10/2013 £300 32 07/01/2014
5 04/01/2014 £500 32 outstanding 
Provident has looked at the complaint. It said that loans 1 and 2 are outside of the Financial 
Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. It thought loan 3 was lent responsibly. But it offered to 
pay compensation in respect of loans 4 and 5. 
Our adjudicator thought that the way Provident has offered to resolve the complaint was fair. 
Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She said that she should receive 
compensation for all of the lending. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided that the offer Provident has made to resolve Miss S complaint is fair. Ill explain 
why below.
To look at a complaint about this type of credit I need to be satisfied that at the time of the 
sale it was a product that was regulated. But this type of credit wasnt regulated until April 
2007. So, this means I cant consider any of this lending before this date because in terms of 
the rules which govern the ombudsman service, it wasnt a regulated product that this 
service can investigate. 
And from the table above, loans 1 and 2 were approved before April 2007. So, I dont have 
the power to make a finding as to whether loans 1 and 2 were suitable (or not) because they 
were issued at a time when this service didnt have jurisdiction to consider such complaints. 
So to be clear, I cant consider whether Provident did something wrong about loans 1 and 2. 
Provident has offered to pay compensation about loans 4 and 5. And this compensation is 
the same as I would award if I were to uphold this complaint. So, I dont think there is any 
ongoing disagreement about these loans and I wont be making a decision about them. I 
have said that Provident should pay this offer if Miss S accepts my decision. 
So Im only looking at loan 3 as part of this decision. 
Provident says that the information Miss S provided when she completed her loan 
application showed she had a disposable income of around £170 per week. It wouldve been 
reasonable for Provident to think that the weekly repayments of £10 were affordable for Miss 
S.  
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Provident was made aware of any 
financial problems Miss S mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. Miss S hasnt said that this information is incorrect or 
why she couldnt afford the repayments. Because of this I think it was reasonable for 
Provident to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Provident did for loan 3 was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to approve this loan was reasonable. Im not upholding 
Miss S complaint about it.I appreciate Miss S may know other people in similar situations who may have received 
different compensation. But I have to look at each complaint individually and Im confident 
this is the right outcome for this complaint.  
Putting things right
If Miss S accepts my decision, then Provident should update and pay the offer it has made 
for loans 4 and 5. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss S complaint. I think the offer 
Provident made to resolve this complaint before the complaint was brought here was 
reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman