DRN-1733613
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a PPI policy alongside their mortgage in 1996. Mr and Mrs K paid for 
the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered both of them 
equally for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. Mr and Mrs K say they were led 
to believe that PPI was part of the mortgage and they had no choice but to take it. They also 
said that they were given one amount they had to pay for their mortgage, which unbeknown 
to them included PPI. Further, they say the costs and benefits of PPI were not explained. 
And, if given an option, they wouldnt have taken PPI, because there was little likelihood of 
them being off work for more than six months and they had enough means to cover them for 
this time. They also said they had critical illness cover too.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ks case.
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
This sale occurred over 20 years ago and the accounts involved here have long since 
closed, so I think its understandable that neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs K have the original 
documents from the time. Indeed, under data protection rules Halifax were required to 
dispose of Mr and Mrs Ks data rather than hold onto it for too long. 
So, I have to decide this case based on the limited information I have, taking into account 
what I think likely happened at the time, looking at what Halifax and Mr and Mrs K have said, 
and the wider circumstances. Mr and Mrs K said they werent told that PPI was optional. I 
cant know what was discussed at the time.  But I also need to be conscious that memories 
can, and do, fade over time, that this sale was particularly long ago, and that the sale of 
insurance is not often memorable. 
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have added the PPI without Mr and 
Mrs Ks permission, or to have misled them into thinking it was compulsory. I dont have 
enough evidence to show thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider problems 
with its sales process from around this time. And this sale was too long ago for me to 
reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce evidence from the time to defend itself now. So I dont think I have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr and Mrs K. I 
think its more likely that it followed a relatively standard sales process, gave them a choice, 
and that they chose PPI at the time  even if, understandably, they no longer recall doing so 
after so long.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs K. That means Halifax had to check the policy 
was right for them. Halifax also had to give them enough clear and fair information to enable 
them to make an informed choice and decide whether they wanted to buy PPI. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances at the time, I think PPI was 
suitable for them. Ill say why:
They were both eligible to take out PPI, given their circumstances.
I cant see that either of them was affected by the main limitations or exclusions in 
the policy. So, as they couldve benefited from everything the policy offered, I cant 
see that having clearer information about the things the policy didnt cover wouldve 
affected their decision to buy PPI.
They both said they were eligible to get sick pay from work, in both cases six months 
worth at full pay and six months worth at half pay. The PPI wouldve paid out on top 
of this for up to 12 months per successful claim. Under the policy they would also 
have been eligible to claim unemployment benefit if they involuntarily lost their 
employment. So, I still think the PPI couldve provided them with useful protection in 
their circumstances, particularly if one or both of them was on half pay. 
They said they had a modest amount of savings. PPI wouldve enabled them to use 
these to meet their other household expenses.
They said they had critical illness cover, but this didnt provide them with exactly the 
same protection, so that doesnt affect my decision.
The policy appeared affordable. It was £8.85 per month for £150 worth of cover per 
month when they took it out. Mr and Mrs K said they werent told about this separate 
cost. I cant know what they were told at the point of sale, but I have seen later 
statements showing the separate monthly cost of PPI, so I think they were probably 
told from the outset they were paying a separate amount for it. I cant see that Mr and 
Mrs K queried this cost when it appeared on their statements. As the PPI was paid 
for monthly, and it didnt attract interest,  Mr and Mrs K couldve cancelled the policy 
at any time without losing out financially.
Mr and Mrs K said they felt it unlikely that they wouldve had to take more than six 
months off work due to sickness. But, PPI is intended to cover unforeseen 
eventualities. Sickness and redundancies can and do happen. The mortgage was a 
significant, long-term commitment and PPI wouldve given them long term protection
 
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs K about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, they werent affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case something 
went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs K could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman