DRN-3015363
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) charged fees 
on its business account for cash withdrawals. Mr S brings the complaint on Ms behalf.
What happened
M holds a business account with Lloyds. Mr S made cash withdrawals on the account 
between 10 December 2020 and 9 January 2021 and complained in February 2021 when he 
was charged for these withdrawals. M was refunded these charges by Lloyds as a gesture of 
goodwill, who at the same time explained that all charges would apply moving forward.
Mr S made several further cash withdrawals in the period between 10 January 2021 and      
9 February 2021, so M was charged further cash withdrawal fees in its next monthly 
statement in March 2021. Mr S complained again, as he felt he wasnt aware the cash 
withdrawal charges existed on the account at the time the withdrawals were made. He 
explained hed stopped making withdrawals when he became aware of the issue in  
February 2021. He asked for Lloyds to refund the fees he was charged in March 2021.
Lloyds did not refund these fees, and the complaint was referred to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and said Lloyds had fairly notified Mr S of the charges 
that applied to the account. This was because Lloyds had notified Mr S in February 2020 
that the 18 months free banking M received when he opened the account was coming to an 
end, and that charges would apply from 10 April 2020. Mr S had also been told in Lloyds 
response to his previous complaint that future charges would apply.
Mr S disagreed, he still felt that he wasnt made aware of the charges until he complained in 
February 2021. He said he hadnt received any correspondence from Lloyds outlining the 
fees, suggesting that the letters may have been delivered to his neighbour instead. Mr S 
reiterated that if he had been made aware, he wouldnt have withdrawn cash from the 
account. 
He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether Lloyds correctly informed M of the charges that would apply to the 
account once the free banking period had ended. Ive also considered whether the charges 
were applied fairly and in line with the terms of the account M held. If this was the case, my 
decision would be that Lloyds acted fairly.
Lloyds communication in February 2020 clearly outlined that the accounts free banking 
period was coming to an end, and that charges would take effect from 10 April 2020. The 
letter contained adequate detail about the charges that could be applied and was correctly 
addressed. I appreciate Mr S feels he did not receive this letter, but on balance I think its 
most likely that the communication was sent and received to the correct address. 
Contact notes provided by Lloyds show that Mr S was also reminded of the charges which 
applied to his account in his call with Lloyds on 22 February 2021, including a reminder that 
the monthly account fee had increased from £6.50 to £7. 
Ive seen copies of the account statements and invoices for the period in question, which 
show the charges were applied fairly, and that Mr S was correctly notified.
I appreciate Mr S may have some expectation for Lloyds to refund the charges because itd 
previously agreed to refund similar charges as a gesture of goodwill. But I dont think it would 
be fair to ask Lloyds to do this, as I dont think it acted unfairly when charging the account.
I recognise Mr S feels he wasnt aware M would be charged when he made the withdrawals 
in January and February 2021. But as Im satisfied that Lloyds had already adequately 
explained the terms of the account, I cant say this lack of awareness was the fault of Lloyds.
Whilst I understand and appreciate the position Mr S was in when he made the withdrawals, 
Im not persuaded it would be fair to direct Lloyds to refund the charges. These were applied 
in line with the terms of the account, after the fees had been directly explained to Mr S and 
after M had already been refunded some earlier fees. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied 
the charges were applied correctly and fairly.
As I think the charges were applied fairly, I wont be asking Lloyds to do any more to resolve 
the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman