DRN-3940725
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy about a porting application for their mortgage being turned down 
by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) and how it treated them thereafter while they 
were in financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out their repayment mortgage with NatWest in 2018. There was a fixed 
interest rate product attached to the mortgage at that time and this was replaced with a new 
one in the autumn of 2020.
In 2020 Mr and Mrs W applied to port their mortgage to a new property. The application was 
declined, and they complained about that decision. The complaint was responded to by 
NatWest in its letters of 18 August 2020, 20 August 2020 and 26 February 2021. The latter 
of these letters also addressed Mr and Mrs Ws unhappiness at being denied the option to 
convert their mortgage on to an interest-only basis.
NatWest granted Mr and Mrs W a Covid-19 payment deferral for six months from April 2020. 
They started paying the mortgage again in October and did so in full up to and including 
January 2021. At that point they couldnt afford to make the full payments and NatWest 
agreed to allow reduced payments of differing amounts until Jun 2021. From July 2021 
Mr and Mrs W paid slightly more than the contractual payment; the difference being paid off 
the arrears that had built up on the account. The arrears were cleared in the spring of 2022, 
and the payments returned to the amount of the contractual monthly payment. 
Mr and Mrs W complained in December 2021 that a payment arrangement agreed on 
5 November 2021 hadnt been keyed onto NatWests system and so they had continued 
getting correspondence asking them to contact it to discuss their account. NatWest 
responded to the complaint on 22 January 2022. It apologised for human error meaning that 
the arrangement hadnt been loaded onto its systems.  NatWest also apologised for the fact 
that they hadnt received a call back they had requested in December 2021. NatWest paid 
Mr and Mrs M £150 compensation.
On 23 September 2021 and 24 January 2022 NatWest issued its final response letters to a 
complaint Mr and Mrs W had raised about a payment deferral having been agreed, but not 
applied. It said that as there was no record of a payment deferral being agreed; it had asked 
Mr and Mrs W for any further details about when the discussion in question had occurred 
and with whom they spoke. NatWest explained that as they hadnt been given this 
information it couldnt investigate the complaint further. 
Mr and Mrs W then complained about having to provide information for the investigation of 
their payment deferral complaint. NatWest responded in its letter of 9 February 2022. It didnt 
uphold the complaint as it didnt consider it had been wrong to ask them for more information 
when its records didnt indicate a deferral had been agreed.
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with the responses they received and asked us to look into the 
various complaint points. They did this on 29 September 2021 and explained that the 
amount NatWest wanted them to pay to clear the arrears, an additional £140 each month, 
was unaffordable. 
When we informed NatWest that the complaint had been referred to us, it highlighted that 
the complaint about the porting application had been referred to us outside the six-month 
referral period. As such, it didnt consent to us considering that aspect of the complaint. 
One of our investigators considered whether this aspect of the complaint fell within our 
jurisdiction. She concluded that it didnt. In relation to the complaint about a payment deferral 
having been agreed at some point, she didnt conclude the evidence indicated there had 
been a deferral agreed and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept the investigators conclusions in relation to our jurisdiction to 
consider the complaint about the porting application. In addition, they said that their 
complaint was not just about the payment deferral they believe was agreed, but about how 
they were treated as a whole, after the porting application was declined.
In light of Mr and Mrs Ws comments, one of my ombudsman colleagues considered whether 
the complaint fell within our jurisdiction. She concluded that we could not consider the 
complaint issue relating to the porting application being declined, as it hadnt been referred 
to us within the six-month timescale Mr and Mrs W had to do so, and there were no 
exceptional circumstances that meant the timescale could be waived. 
We requested some further information from NatWest and the complaint has now been 
passed to me to consider the merits of the part that falls within our jurisdiction.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 January 2023, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
At each stage of our process we consider our jurisdiction. Having done so, I agree with my 
ombudsman colleague that we are unable to consider Mr and Mrs Ws concerns about their 
porting application. This is because the complaint was referred to us outside the applicable 
timescale and the delay was not due to exceptional circumstances, such that it would allow 
us to set aside the time limit in question. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender is required to explore ways to help a consumer that is financial difficulties and 
resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem that created the arrears to begin with is 
one that looks to be short-term and capable of being resolved. Balanced against that is the 
lenders obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. In addition, 
any arrangement must actually help the consumer, and not just move the problems further 
down the line. 
Mr and Mrs W have complained that they havent been treated fairly since the payment 
deferrals ended in September 2020, and they highlighted in their complaints specific 
incidents that they believe demonstrate this. 
Looking at the notes of the conversations Mr W had with NatWest after the payment 
deferrals in 2020, he informed NatWest that the difficulties were something that would 
resolve once the commission element of his income from the jobs he had obtained after he 
was made redundant in 2020, built up. NatWest initially agreed to Mr and Mrs W making reduced payments for three months, as they asked to. Reduced payments were then made 
for a further two months after that. There were ongoing conversations throughout the period 
and NatWest was understanding when Mr and Mrs W werent able to confirm what their 
income and expenditure would be following Mr W starting a new job and an error with his 
first salary payment. It was around this time that Mr W recollects that another payment 
deferral was agreed, but the notes taken at the time dont indicate that was the case. Indeed, 
when the account was reviewed following the period of reduced payments, Mr W had 
expressed the belief they would be able to pay the full mortgage payment from July 2021. 
They did not only that, but also paid a small amount toward the arrears. 
The subsequent conversations were about the arrears being addressed. In September and 
October 2021 Mr W explained to NatWest that their income was not a predictable amount on 
a monthly basis as the commission element was not set in stone. He explained that 
because of this they didnt want to put a formal arrangement in place. NatWest accepted this 
and told Mr and Mrs W to keep making what payments they could to the arrears and to keep 
it updated.
Mr and Mrs W did just that and at the beginning of November 2021 they went through an 
income and expenditure exercise and a formal payment arrangement was agreed. 
Unfortunately, NatWest didnt enter the agreement into its system, which meant that 
Mr and Mrs W continued being contacted about the arrears on the account. They 
complained and, rightly, NatWest upheld the complaint and paid Mr and Mrs W 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience they suffered. I think this was reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
While NatWest did make an administrative mistake in November 2021, I am not persuaded 
that it made any other errors in its dealings with Mr and Mrs W following the end of the 
payment deferral period. It showed forbearance when they were unable to afford the full 
mortgage payments and in being patient regarding discussing the repayment of the arrears 
when they were getting used to Mr Ws new income. 
NatWest didnt respond to my provisional decision, but I am satisfied that it received it.
Mr and Mrs W said they didnt see any reason to make further comments as they thought the 
decision would be the same, no matter what they said, as had been the case with our 
conclusions about our jurisdiction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed all of the evidence afresh, but as neither party has provided any further 
evidence or comment, I see no reason to alter my conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 9 March 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman