DRN-3897910
The complaint
Mr B complained about the amount of time Zurich Assurance Limited (Zurich) took to 
transfer the funds in his personal pension plan, to his Small Self Administered Scheme 
(SSAS), a type of specialised company pension.
The crux of the complaint is that Zurich took so long to carry out the transfer, that Mr Bs 
funds had fallen in value, thus causing him to lose money.
What happened
Between July and October 2022, Mr B and Zurich corresponded about transferring these 
funds. The issue was essentially prompted by Mr Bs impending 75th birthday which was in 
August 2022. Under the age-related rules of the Zurich personal pension plan Mr B had, 
these required the funds to be transferred elsewhere  and he agreed with Zurich to start the 
process of transferring the funds to a SSAS which hed had for some time.
The amount transferred, £111,026 was lower than Mr B had anticipated. Mr B says this is 
because of repeated failures by Zurich. He first complained to Zurich and ultimately it has 
agreed it could have worked faster and told him about documents and information he 
needed to send through sooner than it did. Zurich therefore said it would recalculate the final 
fund value as if the personal pension had been transferred six working days earlier. This 
resulted in an increase in the fund closure value of another £3,546 which it has paid to Mr B.
Mr B still isnt happy so he has complained to our Service. One of our investigators looked at 
Mr Bs complaint. However, they said we shouldnt uphold it because they thought the offer 
to uplift the fund closure value was reasonable.
As Mr B still doesnt agree with this, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Having considered all the circumstances in this case, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. 
Introduction
My starting point here is that I think the investigator provided a very detailed and 
comprehensive response to both parties. They carefully set out the timeline of events and 
the various contacts the parties had with each other. Im also obliged to Mr B for his detailed 
summary of what happened. 
However, theres no real dispute about what happened from a timeline point of view and so I 
dont intend to set all this out again. The question is simply about whether Zurich acted 
unreasonably and whether its actions or inactions have caused Mr B a financial loss.
What the complaint is really about
In essence, Mr Bs complaint here is that Zurich took far too long to liquidate his funds and 
transfer the funds to the SSAS. And it seems by the time it got around to transferring, the 
money markets had fallen and he got less from his invested funds than he thought he would. 
Mr Bs liquidated funds amounted to £111,026.
To make matters more confusing, Zurich also sent Mr B a Lifetime Allowance (LTA) 
certificate. His Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) requires the LTA to be tested at 
certain points, and the onset of a 75th birthday is one such point. However, the LTA 
certificate Mr B was sent said hed used up 11.16% of the LTA  the LTA being £1,073,100 
at the time. This percentage corresponds to a figure of £119,767 which is obviously quite a 
bit above what Mr B saw arriving into his SSAS. Perhaps not surprisingly, Mr B doesnt find 
this acceptable.
Its unfortunate that all this occurred at a time of stock market volatility. However, Im afraid 
this is a fact of life where money market funds are concerned and Zurichs terms of business 
point out that the liquidation of funds cannot be guaranteed. This is due to fluctuations in unit 
prices and, in my view, is common within the pensions landscape. From what Ive seen in 
this case, I think Mr B would have known and understood this.
Nevertheless, Ive still looked very carefully at everything thats been said. On 12 July 2022 
Zurich sent him a transfer pack which Mr B sent back on 14 July. On 1 August, Zurich sent 
him the warnings about pension transfers which it was obliged to give him and asked for 
some discharge forms to be completed, these were returned on 8 August. There then 
followed some dialog between the parties about information and documents which Mr B 
didnt think was relevant and / or couldnt supply. On 23 August, Zurich issued a direction 
that Mr B would need to speak to a third-party  MoneyHelper - to fulfil its safety 
requirements about moving pension funds. That appointment had to be re-arranged due to 
unforeseen circumstances neither party could help, thus making the whole process drag into 
September 2022. This was beyond Mr B turning 75 years old.
As Ive said, theres no real dispute about any of these dates. And our investigator 
comprehensively explained certain events which took place in between the dates Ive 
mentioned above, such as Mr B needing to chase up Zurich more than once. I do accept he 
would have found this frustrating.
However, whilst I agree that Zurich was responsible for the vast majority of the delays, I think 
there were some things Mr B could have also done differently which may have had a modest 
effect on the timeliness of him getting his funds liquidated and transferred to the SSAS. He 
knew, for example, of his impending 75th birthday. He also had a close working relationship 
with the administrator of the SSAS and if his need was always to transfer the funds, then he 
could have saw to it that the administrator had what it needed ahead of the process. I think 
its also reasonable to point out that a SSAS and the circumstances in which Mr B was 
transferring money into it, were not particularly routine. And I think it was reasonable to 
expect a degree of complexity  even bureaucracy  caused by the tight regulatory environment around these types of pensions. Unfortunately there was also an unforeseen 
bank holiday which caused the MoneyHelper appointment to be rescheduled by some time.
Still, Ive noted Zurich fully admits that it didnt do everything right. It went back over the 
timeline of events and calculated it could have, for instance, notified Mr B of the need for the 
MoneyHelper meeting slightly earlier than it did. This would have shortened the overall 
waiting times he endured, although its probably speculation as to say by quite how much. 
Accordingly, Zurich looked over the sequence of events and estimated there was a probable 
six working day delay caused by its failures.  
Was the recalculation of six days fair? 
Zurich estimated a six-day delay period by looking at when it ought to have provided 
information about certain requirements it had of Mr B and Im satisfied this was reasonable. 
It says it sent a letter to him on 1 August in which it should have ticked additional boxes 
asking about employment related information. Had it asked for these requirements correctly, 
Zurich said Mr B could have probably sent back by 8 August, what it needed to know. 
I still do think its fair to say the six working day delay was / is an estimate on Zurichs part. 
But as this relates to what might have happened had things been different, I think the 
overall delay estimate is a fair one. Looking at the significant market fluctuations of that time 
period, which were due to ongoing political events, Mr Bs fund could have actually been 
valued differently  and indeed lower - had another date been applied. 
I also dont think that using the LTA certificate figure as a closure liquidation amount is 
relevant either. I can certainly understand why Mr B would want this calculation applied, as 
its higher than the other valuations Ive mentioned above. But Mr Bs fund wasnt yet 
liquidated at the time of the LTA certificate, and so Zurich was correctly doing what it needed 
to do  tell HMRC of the current value. In my view this was simply a regulatory requirement 
as HMRC required the fund value on Mr B reaching 75. That was the fund value on that 
particular day. Picking another liquidation date could have resulted in a lower figure. So Im 
afraid thats the vagaries of money market investing.
Summary
In this decision I have set out why I think Zurich has acted reasonably and I am therefore not 
upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B effectively needed to transfer his pension, and so he decided to use his existing SSAS 
to transfer the funds into. I think it would always have been clear to Mr B that liquidating his 
existing funds would involve selling units into the market and so the exact amount would be 
subject to fluctuations.
Given Mr Bs obvious financial knowledge and awareness, I think hed have known this and 
also that due to the complexity of pension regulatory requirements, he would likely encounter 
a degree of bureaucracy in making all this happen. Starting the process early was therefore 
prudent, in my view.
In the event, Zurich got some things wrong. It could have worked faster and it liquidated his 
funds at a point where, unfortunately for Mr B, there was considerable short-term volatility. 
He got £111,026, but after he complained Zurich said it should have liquidated the funds six 
working days earlier. So Zurich paid him another £3,546  this represented what his funds 
would have looked like if hed liquated earlier. 
I think this is fair. Mr B implies he should be paid a total of £119,767 because this is what is effectively on the 
LTA certificate he was given. But this certificate is a somewhat administrative figure, 
representing as it does only the percentage of the LTA hed used up as of his 75th birthday. 
Ive looked at the market volatility over the preceding days, weeks and months and its clear 
to me that one could pick a date which shows an even higher liquidation value. Similarly, a 
lower figure might have applied. In short  I dont think the LTA percentage figure is the 
amount Mr B should be guaranteed.
This is because one enrols in a pension plan like this in the knowledge that values change 
on a daily basis. I believe Zurich was clear to Mr B through its terms of business that daily 
unit values cannot be guaranteed. 
Zurich had to comply with its regulatory requirements. Mr B, on the other hand, knew of his 
forthcoming LTA crystallisation event, his 75th birthday. Zurich has admitted its mistake and 
that it could and should have navigated the regulatory requirements more quickly and I think 
its put right what it did wrong.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B, but Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not require Zurich Assurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman