DRN-3030856
The complaint
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Miss Bs complaint.  
What happened
Miss B said Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a credit card in 2005.
Barclaycard didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because 
it said Miss B had referred the complaint to us too late.   
But Barclaycard has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of Miss Bs PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Miss B about the high 
level of commission and profit share shed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Miss Bs complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Barclaycards payment was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint
Miss Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Barclaycard hasnt agreed.  
Miss Bs complaint was made to Barclaycard in 2018. This is more than six years after 
Barclaycard sold the policy to her  in 2005  which is the event shes complaining about 
here. So, I need to think about whether the complaint was made within three years of when 
Miss B should reasonably have been aware she had cause to complain. 
Barclaycard says it sent Miss B a letter in March 2013 which alerted her to the possibility 
something might have gone wrong with her policy sale. Given what Miss B is complaining 
about, I think she should reasonably have been aware she had reason to complain when or 
if she got this letter. I say this because in the letter Barclaycard explain that it has identified 
problems with the sale of some PPI policies, which may mean we have mis-sold you PPI. 
It also explained that, 
If you choose to respond, it is important that you do so promptly. There is a potential limit of 
three years from the date of this letter on the time you have to make a complaint to us and 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. Failure to alert us of your potential mis-sale within this 
time period may mean that we will not be required to consider any future complaint about the 
sale of your PPI. Please note that in some circumstances the three-year period may already 
have begun  this will depend on your previous experience of PPI and any dealings with us 
which may impact the extent to which you may be aware (or ought reasonably to have been 
aware) that you had a cause for complaint.
We will then investigate the particular circumstances relating to the sale of PPI to you and 
consider whether we may have mis-sold you PPI.
Miss B says she cant remember the correspondence she may have had from Barclaycard  
and Ive thought about this. I can see the letter and the records provided by Barclaycard 
show it was sent to the right address. And I havent been told about any reason why Miss B 
might not have received it (like problems with her post). So, Im satisfied its most likely to 
have been delivered correctly.
This means Miss B needed to make her complaint about the policy sale by March 2016. As 
she didnt complain until 4 September 2018 her complaint is out of time under the rules I 
have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances.
Miss B has told us she had ongoing personal health issues, but she hasnt provided detailed 
testimony about why it may have prevented her bringing the complaint within the three years 
from March 2013 or in the two and half years from March 2016, after the three year time limit 
had passed. Ive thought about this  but Ive seen insufficient evidence to find that Miss B 
was prevented from making her complaint by March 2016 because of her health issues. So 
exceptional circumstances dont apply here. 
So, Im sorry that were unable to help Miss B with her complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclaycard should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Barclaycards offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Barclaycard didnt tell Miss B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So, taking into account: - The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclaycard and Miss B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Barclaycard didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Barclaycard acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss B because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Miss Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Miss B should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Barclaycard failed to tell Miss B about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Miss B wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipcompensation for Miss B in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Barclaycard not 
disclosing the high level of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Miss Bs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Barclaycards failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Barclaycard to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Miss B paid for her PPI policy - I consider this fairly removes 
the source of the unfairness. 
So, I consider that Barclaycards payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
Barclaycard has shown us the copy of the cheque it says it sent to Miss B. As Barclaycard 
has already paid Miss B compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do anything 
further. 
My final decision
Im unable to consider Miss Bs complaint about how her policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay Miss B an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable). As Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has already 
paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman