DRN-4210267
The complaint
Mr S complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited, trading as RSAs handling of 
his home insurance claim. 
RSA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As RSA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to RSA includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In mid-2022, Mr Ss garage was broken into, and his bicycle and some accessories were 
stolen. RSA settled Mr Ss claim for the stolen bicycle and accessories under the contents 
section of his policy. However, it told Mr S that his broken garage lock wasnt covered under 
contents, but under the buildings section. It said it wouldnt be financially viable to proceed 
with the claim for the lock, because the cost of repair would be less than the £350 excess 
that applied. 
Mr S thought RSA should cover the repair of his lock under contents. He raised a complaint, 
but RSA maintained its position. So, Mr S asked our service to consider the matter.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He thought RSA had acted 
fairly and in line with the policys terms. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators outcome and asked for his complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman. So, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S had both buildings and contents insurance with RSA covering the date in which the 
incident occurred. The terms and conditions for buildings and for contents are set out in two 
separate policy booklets. 
Both policy booklets contain the wording: Please note if you hold Buildings and Contents 
Insurance with (the intermediary) and claim under both sections you will be required to pay 
the excesses under both sections.
According to Mr Ss policy documents he had a total excess of £350 for contents, with the 
same amount applicable for buildings claims. 
I understand that Mr S is unhappy that RSA wouldnt agree to include the damage to the 
garage door lock as part of his contents claim. Hes referred to wording in the Contents 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which says: Replacing and fitting new locks 
up to £1,000 is insured. 
The IPID document is a brief summary of what is and isnt covered under the policy. It refers 
policyholders to the policy booklet and their statement of insurance for the terms and 
conditions.
The contents policy booklet says that contents are covered by loss or damage caused by 
theft or attempted theft. However, Im satisfied that the garage door lock doesnt fall under 
RSAs definition of contents.
Lock replacement is included as an additional benefit in the contents policy but this says: 
The cost of replacing and fitting new locks or lock mechanisms to external doors, windows, 
intruder alarms and safes installed in your home if the keys are lost or stolen anywhere in 
the world
As Mr Ss keys dont appear to have been lost or stolen, I think it was reasonable for RSA to 
conclude that damage to the door lock wasnt covered under the contents section of his 
policy.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr S. But Im satisfied that RSA has acted 
fairly and reasonably, in line with the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman