DRN-3405417
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Santander UK Plc committed a serious data breach when it sent 
paperwork for a new mortgage product to the wrong address. They ask for compensation of 
between £2,000 and £7,000.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a mortgage with Santander. Their interest rate product was due to end 
and in late 2021 they called Santander about taking out a new product. Santander sent the 
product offer to their previous address. Mr S says this was a very serious data breach that 
caused a lot of stress and anxiety. Mr S says the information could be in the hands of 
criminals. They could have missed out on the new product. And Mr S had to take time off 
work to sort this out.
Mr and Mrs S also complain about poor service as they had to chase up the product offer. 
And that Santanders complaint handling was poor and the complaints team didnt call when 
they said they would. 
Santander agreed it made errors. It corrected Mr and Mrs Ss address in its records and paid 
£300 compensation. Santander backdated the new product to ensure Mr and Mrs S werent 
out of pocket.
Our investigator said Santander had done enough to put matters right.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander accepts it made errors. It sent the product offer to Mr and Mrs Ss previous 
correspondence address. And it accepts that its complaints team didnt provide a good 
service. Santander says it has corrected its records so that correspondence wont in future 
be sent to an old address. 
I can understand that Mr and Mrs S were upset that the product offer was sent to the wrong 
address. Fortunately, theres nothing to suggest the information is in the hands of criminals 
or that its been misused. 
Santander backdated the new product, so Mr and Mrs S didnt miss out on the preferential 
interest rate due to the product offer being sent to the wrong address. While Mr S says he 
had to take time off work to sort the matter out, he hasnt said why this was unavoidable. 
Based on the available evidence, I dont think that Mr and Mrs S suffered financial loss as a 
result of Santanders error. Nonetheless, the product offer contains Mr and Mrs S personal 
financial data (including the mortgage balance and the amount they pay each month) and 
theyre entitled to expect the information to be kept secure. I think its right that Santander 
pays compensation. 
Mr S says hes been advised that they should get compensation of between £2,000 and 
£7,000 for the data breach. I should say that when I consider what compensation is fair and 
reasonable, I take into account the effect of the error in the particular circumstances.
Mr S said they were worried about the information that was sent to their previous address 
falling into the wrong hands. And it would have been inconvenient for Mr and Mrs S to have 
to chase up the product offer when it didnt arrive. Santanders complaints team didnt call 
Mr S when it said it would, which would have added to the inconvenience and upset. Taking 
all this into account, I think £300 paid by Santander is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the steps taken and 
compensation paid by Santander UK Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman