DRN-4034454
The complaint
Mr B complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) unfairly turned 
down his claim on his car insurance policy following the theft of his car.
What happened
Mr B was contacted by some potential buyers who wanted to view his car, which was for 
sale. During the viewing, they swapped Mr Bs car key for a duplicate and left without buying 
the car. Mr B realised almost immediately his car key had been swapped and called the 
police. He says he also emailed Markerstudy. Later that evening, Mr Bs car was stolen by 
the individuals whod viewed it earlier.
Mr B claimed on his car insurance policy for the theft. Markerstudy turned down Mr Bs 
claim. It said Mr Bs policy excluded cover where possession of his car was gained by 
deception by someone pretending to be a buyer.
Mr B complained to Markerstudy about its decision to turn down his claim and about service 
delays. Markerstudy upheld Mr Bs complaint about the service delays and has paid him 
£200 in compensation. But Markerstudy said it was correct to turn down Mr Bs theft claim.
Unhappy with Markerstudys refusal to pay his claim, Mr B brought his complaint to us. The 
investigator who looked at it didnt uphold it. He thought Markerstudy had applied the terms 
of Mr Bs car insurance policy fairly.
Mr B disagrees. He says he took all appropriate measures to prevent his car from being 
stolen when he realised the key had been swapped. So Mr Bs complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs car insurance policy has some guidance on preventing crime which said he should 
take appropriate measures to safeguard his car when showing it to potential buyers. It also 
has an exclusion that says Mr B isnt insured for any loss to his car where possession of it is 
gained by deception on the part of someone pretending to be a buyer. 
Exclusions like this are fairly standard in car insurance policies. We think theyre intended to 
exclude claims where a policyholder hasnt taken reasonable steps to protect their car when 
allowing someone else access to it. We dont think these exclusions are unfair, as long as an 
insurer can show its acted fairly in deciding its policyholder didnt take reasonable steps.
Investigation notes Markerstudy has shown us say the police confirmed that thieves came to 
view Mr Bs car, that after viewing the interior they gave Mr B a copied key rather than the 
primary key and that the thieves returned later and stole his car.
In Mr Bs signed police statement, he describes what happened during the viewing. He says 
he gave his car key to his partner, she handed it to one of the individuals viewing the car 
who then turned the engine. Mr B says after turning the engine off, the individuals then 
asked to look under the bonnet but were struggling with the bonnet catch. Mr B thinks this is 
when they swapped his key for the duplicate.
I sympathise with what has happened to Mr B, its a very unfortunate set of circumstances. 
But from the police report and from Mr Bs police statement its clear he effectively voluntarily 
handed over possession of his car to the thieves by handing them the car key. I think that, in 
doing so, Mr B didnt take reasonable steps to protect his car. And this enabled the thieves 
to steal it later that night.
Mr B says he took all the appropriate measures he could to safeguard his car following the 
theft of the key. He says he phoned the police as soon as he realised what had happened 
and he emailed Markerstudy (although it was late night/early morning when these events 
took place, so Markerstudys email wouldve been unmonitored).
Markerstudy says Mr B failed to take appropriate measures to safeguard his car following 
the theft of the key. It says if Mr B had called its 24-hour claims helpline, it couldve given 
him advice on how to protect his car from theft.
Knowing his car key had been stolen, I think it wouldve been reasonable of Mr B, in addition 
to calling the police, to have phoned Markerstudys 24-hour claims helpline to report the 
theft. Had he done this, I think Markerstudy wouldve offered some advice that couldve 
prevented the theft of the car.
Looking at the facts and circumstances of this case as a whole, I think Mr B failed to take 
reasonable steps to protect his car and I think this enabled the thieves, whod posed as 
potential buyers, to gain possession of it by deception.
So, while these are unfortunate circumstances for Mr B, I think Markerstudy has acted fairly 
and reasonably, and in line with his policy terms and conditions, in turning down his claim for 
the theft of his car.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman