DRN-3575974
The complaint
Mr P is complaining that Gain Capital UK Limited trading as City Index incorrectly executed 
certain trades on his account.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr P had held short positions at City Index on a GBP-USD currency pair 
for some time. On the evening of 12 December 2019, his total short position was 20.84 units. 
He also had buy orders set up so that if the price went above a certain level his account 
would automatically open long positions.
At 10pm on 12 December the exit poll for the UK general election was announced. This 
caused significant movements in the price of the currency pair and Mr Ps buy orders were 
triggered. In addition, at around the same time, City Index closed all his short positions. This 
left Mr P in a long position  which he didnt want to be in. If hed stayed in his short 
positions, he says, hed have been well-placed to make significant profits. 
Mr P called City Index a few days later, on 17 December. He said he understood that hed 
been closed out of his short positions because his account didnt meet the 50% margin 
requirements. But he didnt understand why the buy orders had been triggered after that. 
During the conversation with City Index, the representative explained to Mr P that everything 
happened within a very short timeframe and the market had moved very quickly. 
Mr P said on this call that his intention of the buy orders had been to reduce his short 
position if necessary to try to avoid a margin close-out. So he was confused as to why this 
hadnt happened. Instead, the short positions had all been closed by the margin call while 
the long positions remained open. Mr P and the representative had a long conversation 
about the timing of the various buy orders and the close-out. 
Towards the end of the call the City Index representative told Mr P he was on a list for an 
account adjustment because the close-out had been executed late. Later in the day, Mr P 
got in touch with City Index again to ask when the adjustment would be made, saying that 
his account was down by over £1,000 and that he needed the extra money to make some 
trades. City Index eventually told him the adjustment would be around 1,400 US dollars and 
would be paid within the next couple of days.
The adjustment was paid a few weeks later, on 9 January 2020. By this point, Mr P had 
raised a complaint with City Index. They rejected the complaint, saying that the trades had 
been carried out in line with their terms and conditions. Mr P wasnt satisfied and City Index 
reconsidered the complaint. They offered Mr P £550 as a goodwill gesture because they felt 
they hadnt replied to Mr Ps complaint as well as they might have done  and because 
theyd led Mr P to believe some trades had been opened out of sequence.
Mr P remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into things and said that broadly City Index had got things right but the account adjustment 
which had been promised within a couple of days took around a month. He said City Index 
werent responsible for any losses Mr P suffered on the trades that were correctly opened 
but thought City Index should increase their offer by £150 to take into account the additional 
upset caused by their delays in processing the adjustment. City Index accepted our 
investigators view.
Mr P disagreed though. He said hed been significantly affected, financially, emotionally, and 
mentally, by City Indexs actions. He still didnt think the sequence of the trades and close-
out had happened properly. And, most importantly, he felt that City Index had promised 
something over the phone which they hadnt fulfilled  he said hed been led to believe that 
hed be put back in the position hed have been in if the margin close-out hadnt happened. 
Mr P feels strongly that hed have made life-changing profits if things hadnt gone wrong. 
Because Mr P and our investigator couldnt reach an agreement, the matters come to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain below, considering in turn the buy trades and close-out and then what Mr 
P was told.
Execution of trades and close-out
Mr P had buy orders set up for nine units  two at one price point and seven at a higher 
price. Looking at Mr Ps trading history the first two orders executed 16 seconds after 10pm 
and the second 16 seconds later, at 32 seconds after 10pm. This aligns with the price data 
for the currency pair which shows when the price hit these trigger points. I appreciate Mr P 
intended that his buy orders would close his existing sell positions, but, as City Index 
explained to him, that wasnt what happened  he didnt link them to his open positions.
City Indexs position on the first two buy orders is a bit mixed. In their latest communications 
with us theyve said they shouldnt have been executed at all but havent been able to clearly 
explain why. From a review of the calculations, it looks to me like Mr Ps account wouldnt 
have met the margin requirements for the buy orders to have been opened. In any event, 
City Index have offered to refund to Mr P the losses he made on these two trades. Im 
satisfied thats a fair offer  with respect to these particular trades, it puts Mr P in the position 
hed have been in if they hadnt been opened.
I know Mr Ps queried whether the two buy orders were taken into account in determining 
that the close-out was necessary. Because they werent linked to the sell positions, the buy 
orders increased the required margin on the account and so worsened Mr Ps position rather 
than improving it as hed hoped. Again, City Indexs communication hasnt been clear on this 
point. Their systems have changed since 2020 and they cant recreate the calculations. But 
Ive looked at the account and its clear the margin close-out would have been necessary 
either way.  
The second set of buy orders was executed after the margin close-out should have 
happened. Ive reviewed the margin close-out calculations and Im satisfied it should have 
taken place before the long positions were opened. So I cant say City Index shouldnt have 
fulfilled the buy orders, or that they should have been closed as part of the margin close-out. 
Im satisfied theyve acted fairly in this respect.
City Index say they had a widespread problem with their system on 12 December 2020  
currency prices were moving rapidly and their system wasnt able to cope with the number of 
liquidations it had to process as a result. This meant that Mr Ps margin close-out was executed a few seconds later than it should have been  and at a different price. City Index 
calculated the losses Mr P should have made on the margin close-out and paid him around 
£1,055. Although I havent seen how City Index calculated this amount, Ive seen enough to 
be satisfied its a fair reflection of the additional losses to Mr Ps account caused by the 
margin close-out being executed late. 
In summary, its clear some of Mr Ps trades werent executed correctly. It seems that his 
first two buy orders shouldnt have been executed, and the close-out was executed late, and 
at the wrong price. But Im satisfied City Index have taken appropriate steps to resolve these 
issues  theyve paid Mr P the difference on the close-out, and offered to refund his losses 
on the buy orders. 
Mr Ps phone conversations with City Index
Mr Ps said the main point of his complaint is that City Index havent done what they said 
theyd do in a call on 17 December 2019. Mr P felt that the City Index representative told him 
that there shouldnt have been a margin close-out on his account at all and that his account 
would be adjusted to reflect that. 
Ive listened to this call. While I dont entirely agree with Mr Ps interpretation of the call, I can 
understand how he came to this view. The City Index representative wasnt particularly clear 
about what had happened or why an adjustment was going to be made to Mr Ps account. 
Mr P came away from the call expecting that the adjustment would put him back into the 
position hed have been in if thered been no margin close-out. And this really is what hes 
complaining about now  that City Index havent done this. 
Before I go any further, its important to explain how our service thinks about putting things 
right when a business has got things wrong. We focus on trying to put the consumer in the 
position theyd have been in if the business had got things right. So, in this case, where the 
City Index representative wasnt clear about what had happened with the margin close-out 
and what the adjustment was going to be for, I have to consider what would have happened 
if the City Index representative had been clearer on the phone. 
I appreciate Mr P wont be happy with this. He feels strongly that he should be reimbursed 
as if his short positions hadnt been closed and his long positions hadnt been opened. His 
view is that this is what he was promised on the call. And he says he wasnt told anything 
different until February 2021, well over a year later. He says if the reimbursement had 
happened as he expected hed have made life-changing profits because of the way the 
market moved. Instead, hes made losses on his long positions.
Its not clear exactly what Mr P would have done differently if that first 17 December call had 
been clearer. But there were several more calls over the course of the next ten days. In one 
of the later calls on 17 December, City Index told Mr P the amount of the adjustment and 
that it would be paid in roughly one working day. In this call, City Index told Mr P that they 
werent going to reinstate any positions and told him he could carry on trading as normal  
nothing he did would impact the adjustment that was to be made. 
Then, on 26 December 2019, Mr P had another call with City Index. In this call, the City 
Index representative clearly explained what the adjustment was and why it was being made. 
Im satisfied this explanation was good enough to overcome the lack of clarity Mr P had 
experienced up to this point. Listening to the rest of the call, it seems Mr P still didnt quite 
understand what had happened with his account and why the buy orders had been opened 
but the City Index representative spent a lot of time on the phone explaining what had 
happened and what was going to happen. There was nothing on the call to suggest Mr P 
would get any further compensation or adjustment beyond the £1,055. Instead, the City Index representative on this call told Mr P hed previously been told the wrong thing. So Im 
satisfied that by the end of this call City Index had done enough to explain to Mr P what the 
adjustment was for, and that hed previously been given misleading information. 
Putting things right
Ive thought carefully about whats happened here. I know Mr Ps suffered significantly, both 
as a result of these trades going wrong, and because of other circumstances, which I wont 
go into in this decision. I have a lot of sympathy for Mr P, but its not fair to blame City Index 
for all of this. 
As Ive set out above, City Indexs errors were:
 the margin close-out happened later than it should have and at a different price;
 the first two buy orders shouldnt have been executed;
 the initial call on 17 December 2019 wasnt clear about what had happened and why 
Mr P would be getting an adjustment; and
 the adjustment wasnt paid until 9 January 2020 when it was promised within a day or 
two of 17 December 2019. 
In addition, City Index acknowledged that their first response to Mr Ps complaint was 
inadequate and apologised for that and for how long it took them to issue a proper 
explanation of what had happened. 
City Index have already reimbursed Mr P for the financial loss as a result of the delayed 
margin call. And theyve offered to reimburse him for the losses he made on the buy orders 
that shouldnt have been executed. 
Ive thought about what would have been different if the initial 17 December 2019 call had 
been clearer. Mr P first called City Index because hed unexpectedly ended up in a long 
position on the currency pair. During the calls that day its clear he wasnt sure whether to 
close his positions or whether that would make any later adjustment more difficult. But he 
also talked about wanting to open long positions. 
As Ive explained above, I think City Index clarified what the adjustment was for on 26 
December  and that there would be no further adjustment. Looking at Mr Ps trading history, 
I cant see that had any impact on his trades. And I can also see that he closed his long 
positions gradually between December 2019 and February 2020 - certainly before February 
2021. In summary, its difficult to conclude that Mr P would have acted differently if the 17 
December phone call had been clearer.
Its clear Mr P was anxious to receive the money as soon as possible  he said he wanted to 
make more trades and needed the money to do so. A delay of around three weeks was 
significant for him. Its not appropriate to speculate with hindsight what trades Mr P would 
have made if the adjustment had been paid to him earlier  but it is appropriate to recognise 
that hed have been disappointed and inconvenienced by the delay in the payment. In total, 
City Index have offered Mr P £700 (on top of the adjustment already paid). And Im satisfied 
thats fair and reasonable, taking into account the disappointment hed have felt about the 
late payment of the adjustment, the lack of clarity on the 17 December 2019 phone call, and 
the length of time it took them to thoroughly investigate his complaint and provide a complete 
written response. Ive taken into account the fact that the adjustment and the close-out were clearly explained to Mr P on 26 December 2019 so I think City Index limited any period of 
confusion to ten days.
My final decision
As Ive set out above, Gain Capital UK Limited trading as City Index need to pay £700 to 
Mr P. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman