DRN-1272306
 
The complaint
Mr E complains that Virgin Money plc failed to take a credit card payment by direct debit and 
then cancelled his promotional offer. 
What happened
Mr E made a balance transfer to his Virgin credit card in July 2019 for £12,000 with the first 
payment due in August 2019. He says there was a direct debit in place and assumed the 
payment would be taken by that method. Mr E says he  became aware some time later the 
direct debit hadn't been taken as it had been cancelled without his knowledge. And as a 
result Virgin charged him interest and a fee as well as removing his promotional credit card 
offer. He says that's unfair and says Virgin should have told him the direct debit had been 
cancelled and sent him a new mandate. Mr E would like the interest and charges refunded 
and the promotional offer reinstated.
Virgin doesn't accept making a mistake and says it acted in line with the account terms and 
conditions by removing a promotional offer where a payment hadn't been made on time. It 
says the previous direct debit was last used in May 2017 and so removed it in accordance 
with the direct debit dormancy rules.  It also says the account statement made clear a direct 
debit wasn't in place as well as the online screen Mr E would have seen when he set up the 
transfer and /or when he logged into his account online. Virgin says Mr E used the account 
in March 2019 and made a payment in full and not by direct debit.
Mr E brought his complaint to us and says the payment in March 2019 was made by balance 
transfer. He says the direct debit dormancy rules say Virgin should have sent him  a new 
direct debit mandate, Our investigator looked at the complaint and didn't uphold it. The 
investigator thought Virgin had acted in line with the account terms and conditions by 
removing the promotional offer and charging interest where there was a late or missed 
payment. The investigator thought Virgin had also acted in line with the direct debit 
dormancy rules by removing the direct debit as it hadn't been used for more than the 
required 13 month period. And the investigator thought Mr E ought to have seen that there 
wasn't a direct debit in place when he logged into his account.
Mr E doesn't accept that view and says Virgin's actions were unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr E will be disappointed by 
my decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions as well as the information Mr E would 
have seen on the account statements about the promotional offer. And I'm satisfied that 
Virgin makes clear in both that a missed or late payment may result in a promotional offer being withdrawn, as well as fees and interest being charged. So I don't think Virgin made a 
mistake here, as both parties accept that a required payment wasn't made, by removing the 
promotional offer and charging interest.
I have looked at the dormancy rules for direct debit agreements and I'm satisfied that they 
say direct debit details should be held for 13 months before removal where a direct debit 
isn't being used. And if a business wish to make a claim after that period then a new 
mandate must be obtained. I can see here that Mr E last made a payment to Virgin in May 
2017 by direct debit and so I don't think it made a mistake by removing Mr E's direct debit 
details from its systems, and I also think it was obliged to do so. I appreciate that Mr E says 
Virgin should have asked him for a new direct debit mandate and I agree with him but only in 
circumstances where Mr E asked Virgin to set up a new direct debit. I don't think Mr E asked 
Virgin set up a new direct debit and that he assumed the previous one was still in place. So I 
don't think Virgin was required to send a new mandate as a new request hadn't been made. 
I have looked at Mr E's account statements from 2017 when there was a direct debit in place 
and I can see those statements make clear that a payment will be taken by direct debit. I 
have also looked at Mr E's account statements in April and May 2019 and can see that there 
is no reference to payment being taken by direct debit. So I think Mr E ought to have known 
at that time that there wasn't a direct debit in place . I can also see that Mr E in April 2019 
had an account balance of just over £500 which was paid in full by the next statement. Mr E 
has told us he paid that by making a balance transfer and there wasn't an additional 
payment by direct debit. So I think at that stage Mr E ought to have realised there wasn't a 
direct debit in place as he paid the balance in full by a balance transfer and there was no 
reference to, for example a part payment by direct debit payment on the account statements.
I'm satisfied Mr E has also logged into his Virgin account and he arranged for the balance 
transfer in July 2019. I have made clear that I think he ought to have been aware some 
months before that balance transfer that there was no longer a direct debit set up. But I think 
when Mr E accessed his online account for the July 2019 transfer he would have been 
presented with a number of prompts to set up a direct debit and I would have expected him 
to have reviewed the account details and checked the position as it had been over two years 
since the last direct debit payment had been taken.
Overall I'm satisfied for the reasons I have set out that Virgin hasn't made a mistake or acted 
unfairly. So I can't fairly order it to reinstate the promotional offer or refund any late payment 
fees and interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman