DRN-3502390
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about the service he received during a telephone call he made to 
National Savings and Investments (NS&I) to ask about the prize notification for his premium 
bonds.
What happened
On 5 January 2022 Mr H called NS&I to ask why he hadnt received a text message to let 
him know hed won a prize on his premium bonds.
The adviser explained that as the draw had only been carried out the night before, the text 
message notification of prizes hadnt gone out yet. 
Mr H complained to NS&I about the customer service hed received during the call. He said 
that the adviser was unable to properly answer his queries and concerns. He also felt he 
was waiting too long for his call to be answered.
NS&I issued their final response letter on 25 February 2022. They said, in summary, that the 
adviser hadnt given Mr H inaccurate or incorrect information, and had dealt with the call 
professionally.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think NS&I had treated him unfairly. 
Mr H didnt agree, so his complaints now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
NS&I announces their prizes on the day after the first working day of the month. In January 
2022, this was 5 January  the day Mr H called. They dont publish a time frame for sending 
the text message notification, but theyve said its usually two or three days after the prize 
draw.
Ive seen a screen print from NS&Is systems which shows a text message announcing the 
prize was sent to Mr H on the same day as his call. I appreciate Mr H has said he didnt 
receive this, but Im satisfied it was sent. So I dont think NS&I have made a mistake here.
Ive listened to the call Mr H had with NS&I on 5 January 2022. I dont agree that the adviser 
was unable to properly answer Mr Hs questions or concerns. He explained, correctly, that 
the text notification would be sent within two or three days which was the main point of Mr 
Hs call. Mr H mentioned hed been waiting around ten minutes for his call to be answered 
and asked some specific questions about the staff levels and number of calls waiting which 
the adviser answered. Its true that the adviser didnt apologise until prompted to by Mr H, 
but I think this was because he was focussing on answering Mr Hs specific questions first.
The adviser explained he needed Mr H to confirm his name again to log a complaint. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for the adviser to ask Mr H to give his name again before 
continuing the call, and I dont think being asked to repeat his name caused Mr H any 
inconvenience.
I can see Mr H also raised the point about how long he was on hold for  he said the adviser 
said hed be on hold for one to two minutes, but he was actually on hold for slightly over 
three minutes. The adviser did ask initially if Mr H agreed to be put on hold for one to two 
minutes while he spoke to a member of the complaints staff, and shortly after he said Mr H 
would be on hold for two to three minutes. But it doesnt seem unreasonable that the adviser 
wouldnt be able to say in advance exactly how long Mr H would be on hold for. I dont think 
the adviser did anything wrong here. The adviser was unable to answer Mr Hs question 
about how many complaints NS&I received  but I wouldnt expect him to have that 
information immediately to hand.
The adviser answered Mr Hs questions politely and to the best of his ability. Overall I dont 
think NS&I have treated Mr H unfairly or given him poor customer service during the call. So 
Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman