DRN-1666219
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs B.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999. Lloyds sold Mrs B the 
policy when she applied for the card in a branch meeting.
 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs B has said, but Ive decided I dont have enough evidence that the 
policy was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mrs B has said the bank told her she had to have PPI if she wanted the card. However it 
wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting 
evidence of it. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present persuasive 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. And, although 
Mrs B has strongly said she was told she had to have the PPI, this did happen about 21 
years ago; and I dont know how much I can fairly rely on someone accurately remembering 
the detail of what happened that long ago.
And against this, the form itself does clearly say that the PPI is optional, and gives you a 
choice of ticking either the yes or no box.  
So, overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mrs Bs 
true consent. 
Mrs B has said that, later on, she had to give up her job, but she wasnt told she might be 
able to claim on the PPI. I dont know whether her situation at that time fitted the terms of the 
policy, but it might be possible for her to enquire with the insurer about making a 
retrospective claim. Ive looked at whether there are other reasons for saying the PPI was mis-sold. But I dont 
think these apply:
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs B, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could 
have helped pay the credit card bill if Mrs B was off sick or lost her job  and shes 
said she didnt have good employer sickness benefits or savings to fall back on. So, I 
think the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I 
cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Lloyds gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But I dont think full information about costs and benefits would have affected 
whether she took the PPI. I say this because, in her circumstances, its unlikely this 
would have made the PPI seem less useful. And it doesnt look like shed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.
 
So my conclusion is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI 
to Mrs B because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, and so 
Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman