DRN-3457715
The complaint
K, a mutual society represented by Mr R, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not 
refund all of the money K lost when it fell victim to an email interception scam. 
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties so I will summarise the key details here.
Ks email account was compromised, leading to an invoice from a contractor being 
intercepted and the bank details for the payment being changed. This meant the payment of 
just over £47,000 made from Ks account with Barclays went to a fraudster and not to the 
contractor. 
Mr R has explained that K operates an internal payment system where two colleagues are 
involved with the payment of invoices and no colleague was concerned about this particular 
invoice at the time. Mr R said the contractor was new and K had received emails from both 
the contractor and the quantity surveyor advising of a change of bank details. Mr R explains 
that the email came from the contractors genuine email address. 
When the scam was uncovered, Mr R contacted Barclays. He pointed out that the fraudsters 
account was also with Barclays and he wanted to know why the bank had allowed a 
fraudulent account to be set up.
Barclays said the fraudster had used the funds before K reported the scam. But the bank 
had not promptly logged a scam claim for K when it should have done. Barclays refunded 
50% of the money K had lost due to this error. 
But Barclays said it was not responsible for refunding the rest of the loss. In its final 
response letter, it said K did not carry out effective due diligence to ensure it was fully aware 
of whom it was paying. It said the scam invoice had account details crossed out in pen and K 
should have phoned the contractor to confirm if it had requested payment be made to a new 
account. The bank said it had given an effective warning about invoice scams to K at the 
time the payment was made and K ignored this information.           
K was unhappy with Barclays response and referred a complaint to this service. Mr R 
explained that the account details on the scam invoice were crossed out by K after the scam 
came to light and not by the fraudster. He pointed out that hed been expecting the 
contractor to send an invoice with new bank details because of the previous correspondence 
that had been received from a known email address.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. He 
explained that under the terms of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (The CRM Code), Barclays should reimburse K unless one of the 
CRM Codes exceptions applied. He didnt think any of the exceptions were applicable here. 
He didnt agree the warning Barclays had shown was impactful in Ks circumstances and he 
thought it was reasonable for K to believe it was making a legitimate payment to its 
contractor. 
Barclays disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint, so the matter has 
been referred to me. Barclays was concerned about the security measures K had in place. It 
pointed out that K had made a genuine payment to the contractor a month before and said it 
should have checked the change in account details before making this payment. It felt K 
missed clear opportunities to challenge and question the payment before it was made. It felt 
the warning the bank gave to K was effective and the staff member that saw it should have 
discussed it with Mr R before completing the payment.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays was both the sending and the receiving bank for the payment at the heart of this 
complaint. In this decision, I have only considered Barclays actions as the bank that sent the 
funds. Having done so, I think that Barclays should have refunded the full amount of the 
payment K made. The payment K made was covered by the CRM Code and I am not 
persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to full reimbursement under the CRM Code apply 
in the circumstances of this case. Ill explain why. 
The starting point in law is that K is presumed liable for any transaction it authorises. Its not 
unusual for K to make large payments to pay invoices and so at the time this payment was 
made, K authorised it. This is the case even though it was later discovered that K had been 
tricked into doing so. But Barclays has signed up to the CRM Code. The CRM Code says 
that firms should refund customers that fall victim to an authorised push payment scam like 
this one except in a small number of circumstances. 
Barclays arguments have focused on the warning that was presented to K at the time the 
payment was made. It says that K failed to meet its level of care under the CRM Code 
because it ignored an Effective Warning that applied to the payment being made.
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. Barclays says that Ks employee 
specified that K was making a payment to pay an invoice and was presented with the 
following information:
Could this be a scam? 
Was this invoice unexpected? Does it have new account details? Fraudsters have been 
known to intercept genuine correspondence, including text messages, and change the 
account details to their own. 
Thats why we recommend checking the details of where youre sending the money to in 
person. If you were contacted by phone to pay this invoice, use a different phone to call the 
company so the call cant be diverted. 
The CRM code says that for a warning to be an Effective Warning, it must be (at a 
minimum), understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific.
Whilst the information Barclays presented is designed to be relevant to the scam K fell victim 
to, I am not persuaded that it is specific and impactful enough to meet the requirements of 
an Effective Warning and I am not persuaded that K ignored an Effective Warning by failing 
to take appropriate action in response to it. 
The warning starts by advising caution about invoices that are unexpected. This is not how scams of this nature tend to unfold. Fraudsters typically replace a genuine and expected 
invoice with a fraudulent one, which is what happened here. K was expecting to receive an 
invoice for payment from its contractor and it was also expecting to pay the contractor using 
new account details because of the emails it had received previously from both the 
contractor and the quantity surveyor. I can see why a customer reading this warning who 
had not received an invoice out of the blue might reach the conclusion that the information 
was not relevant to them. And in the circumstances of this case, I can see why the change in 
account information did not cause alarm with Ks staff and why K proceeded with the 
payment without any further internal discussions. 
Barclays has suggested that its inclusion of the phrase genuine correspondence in the 
warning applies to emails from genuine email addresses. But the bank has a far superior 
knowledge of what scams like this look and feel like. At the time of the scam, K did not, and 
I dont think the information Barclays provided did enough to make K aware of the risks. 
Confirming account details in person or over the phone with the sender is almost always 
sufficient to prevent this type of scam. So, its crucial that the importance and relevance of 
doing this is explained (as well as the consequences of not doing it). The warning does 
mention contacting someone in person (which, if taken literally, could be an impractical step 
in many circumstances) but the warning fails to stress the importance of speaking to the 
sender directly or what the consequences of not doing so could be. By not doing this, the 
warning lacked impact and was less likely to be effective for customers in Ks position. 
The warning also fails to really bring alive what a scam of this nature looks like - how a 
fraudster can gain access to and monitor email accounts so as to impersonate someone and 
send emails from their email address (or something which looks very similar). By failing to do 
this, it makes it much easier for a customer, like K, not to recognise their own circumstances 
in the warning. That may have been what happened here. K has explained that it believed 
the correspondence was genuine because the fraudulent email and invoice looked identical 
to genuine correspondence. 
Overall, I dont think K ignored an effective warning or that it was unreasonable for K to 
proceed with making the payment having seen this information.
Ive thought about whether any of the other specific exceptions to reimbursement under the 
CRM Code could apply here. Over the course of the complaint, Barclays has made 
comments suggesting K made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing 
that the payee was the person K was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine 
services and/or the person or business with whom K transacted was legitimate. But Im not 
persuaded that Barclays concerns are enough to establish that K failed to meet its level of 
care. 
From what I have seen, it would have been very difficult for K, or anyone else, to tell that it 
had received a fraudulent invoice. The only change to the format of the invoice was the 
substitution of the account details. There was also no reason for K to think it wasnt 
communicating with the genuine contractor or that the payment request hadnt come from 
them. K was anticipating receiving new account details so receiving the invoice did not 
arouse any concern and nor do I think it ought to have done. The mere fact that K could 
have checked the account details over the phone with the contractor before making the 
payment does not equate to a finding that K lack a reasonable basis for belief. 
From what I have seen, I am satisfied that there was no particular reason for K to find the 
payment request unusual or to doubt its authenticity. I dont think it was unreasonable for K 
to have made the payment in the circumstances that it did. Overall 
The CRM Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which 
as Ive explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money 
that was lost. So I think its fair that Barclays now refunds the remainder of the money K lost, 
along with interest as Ive outlined below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
To put things right, Barclays Bank UK Plc should now:
Pay K a refund of the money that was lost to the scam, less any funds it has been 
able to recover and any redress that it has already paid
Pay 8% simple interest from the date Barclays declined Ks claim under the CRM 
Code until the date of settlement
If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell K how much its taken off. It should also give K a tax deduction 
certificate if it asks for one, so K can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman