DRN-3057881
The complaint
Miss W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard was irresponsible in 
its lending to her. 
Miss W is represented by Mr S but for ease of reference I have referred to Miss W 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Miss W says that Barclaycard didnt carry out adequate checks before it provided her with a 
credit card and that had it done so it would have realised she was a vulnerable consumer. 
She explained she was only 19 when the credit card was provided and had no experience of 
managing credit and had no assistance to help her with this. She says the initial limit was set 
too high for her circumstances and that further credit limit increases trapped her in a never 
ending cycle of debt.
Miss W says she struggles to pay much more than the interest on the card each month and 
that this debt is causing her anxiety. She asked Barclaycard to freeze her interest payments 
so her monthly payments would reduce her balance and for what she considered the 
excessive interest she had paid to be offset against her balance.  
Barclaycard issued a final response letter dated 24 March 2021 not upholding Miss Ws 
complaint. It said that affordability checks were carried out at the application stage and 
based on this the card was provided. It explained that credit limit increases are applied 
automatically to some accounts based on internal reviews. 
Miss W referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought the checks carried out before the 
credit card was provided were proportionate considering Miss Ws circumstances at the time 
and the credit limit offered. She noted that Miss W made her payment on time and cleared 
the balance in full twice including in November 2017. She says that Miss W was sent a text 
message before the credit limit was increased and that she responded to this accepting the 
increase. She noted that Miss Ws credit report suggested she was managing her accounts 
well and that her bank statements showed she had money left over at the end of the month. 
She noted the limit was then decreased in October 2019 and June 2020 to reduce spending 
on the account. 
In response to Miss Ws request for help with her account, our investigator noted that 
Barclaycard direct Miss W to the relevant team and as a goodwill gesture froze interest for a 
period of time. She said that Barclaycard should now work with Miss W to agree a suitable 
repayment plan.
Miss W didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that Barclaycard was aware she 
had over £4,000 outstanding with other lenders and her annual salary was around £12,500 
meaning that with the Barclaycard she would have lending that would equal her annual 
salary. She said that her limit was increased to £10,600 while her salary was £14,000 a year 
and that had checks taken place before this increase, Barclaycard would have realised she 
was in a desperate situation with her debts. She said that she was able to repay the balance 
in August 2016 and November 2017 due to taking out other debt and family money. She had 
maintained her minimum payments but said this showed she was trying to do the right thing 
rather than the debt being affordable. She said the automated credit check and text 
messages werent enough to determine her situation and assess her vulnerability. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W applied for a Barclaycard account in October 2014. I have looked at the information 
gathered through the application process and this includes information about Miss Ws 
income and expenses and a credit check. Miss Ws monthly income was recorded as £929 
and having looked at the bank statements Miss W has provided for the months leading up to 
this application, this appears accurate. She disclosed her expenses including payments 
towards other credit commitments. The credit check showed she had two credit cards and 
that there was no adverse information recorded on these. 
I sympathise with the situation Miss W was in at the time she opened the account and that 
she didnt have experience or support in managing credit. However, I have nothing to show 
that Barclaycard was aware, or ought to have been reasonably aware that Miss W had 
vulnerabilities that meant further checks were required at that time. Having considered the 
information gathered, I think the checks carried out before the account was provided to 
Miss W were proportionate. I note the comments about Miss W having credit balance of over 
£4,000 on other credit cards and then the limit on this car being set at £7,600 however, as 
Miss W appeared to be managing her accounts and the affordability data suggested the 
lending was affordable, I do not find I can say that Barclaycard was wrong to provide the 
account with the initial limit of £7,600.
Miss W maintained her account over the following months. She made at least the minimum 
repayments, often slightly more and on two occasions cleared the balance. I understand the 
comments made about how she repaid the balance on these occasions, but I also accept 
that this would look as though Miss W was managing her account. I also note that part of the 
balance on Miss Ws account was at times due to her taking advantage of promotional offers 
on balance transfers. Miss W wasnt spending up to the limit on her account and having 
looked at the transaction history I do not think this showed signs that meant Barclaycard 
should have been aware that Miss W was struggling financially.
Before the credit limit was increased in October 2018 (four years after Miss W opened the 
account) a credit check was carried out. This didnt raise concerns and having looked 
through the additional information provided as part of this complaint I do not find anything 
that means I can say Barclaycard should have realised Miss W was struggling with her 
repayments. Therefore, in this case I do not find that I have enough evidence to say 
Barclaycard was wrong to offer Miss W the increased limit which she then accepted. 
Barclaycard has since taken steps to assist Miss W and I note it issued a persistent debt 
letter in 2019 and has let Miss W know of the specialist team that she can contact to discuss 
her situation. 
While I do not find I have enough to say that Barclaycard was wrong to provide the initial 
account and subsequent credit limit increase, as she has now provided details of the issues 
she has experienced and her current situation, I would expect Barclaycard to treat Miss W 
positively and sympathetically and work with her to set up an affordable repayment plan. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman