DRN-3439260
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans was 
irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In November 2019 Everyday Lending provided Mr N with a loan of £2,500 repayable over 36 
months with a monthly repayment of £174.44. He said the purpose of the loan was home 
improvements and debt consolidation. The loan was repaid with the proceeds of a second 
loan from Everyday Lending.
In October 2020 Everyday Lending provided Mr N with a second loan of £5,000 repayable 
over 42 months with a monthly repayment of £291.20. He said the purpose of this loan was 
debt consolidation and to repay his overdraft.
Mr N complained that the loans were unaffordable. Everyday Lending looked into his 
complaint. It said it had carried out proper checks and it thought the loans were affordable. 
Mr N referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He didnt think 
Everyday Lending should have approved the loans. 
As Everyday Lending didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ns complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr N would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr N wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ns ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr N undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr N. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint.
Loan 1
Everyday Lending carried out various checks before it lent to Mr N. This included asking for 
details of his income and expenditure, carrying out a credit search, requesting a payslip and 
two months bank statements. It calculated Mr Ns regular living expenses using statistical 
data and assessed his monthly credit commitments. Ive seen a summary of the information 
gathered by Everyday Lending, including the credit report and bank statements provided to it 
at the time. From what Ive seen, I think the checks that it carried out before lending to Mr N 
were reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, 
Ive looked at the results of Everyday Lendings checks to see whether it had made a fair 
lending decision.On the face of it, Mr N had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the loan from 
Everyday Lending. However his credit commitments (excluding his mortgage but including 
an amount to reduce his overdraft and his new loan repayment to Everyday Lending) would 
amount to more than a quarter of his net monthly income. I think that the fact that he was 
paying such a significant proportion of his monthly income on repaying credit was a reason 
why Everyday Lending couldnt reasonably say it was likely that Mr N would be able to repay 
the loan in a sustainable way over a three year period.
Everyday Lending was also aware from the credit check and also from Mr Ns submitted 
bank statements that he was having ongoing problems managing his finances. In particular, 
he had defaulted on an unsecured loan account the previous month. Hed also defaulted on 
a second unsecured loan account and a telecoms account owing £100 on dates that werent 
recorded on the credit report. His bank statement showed that he had more expenditure 
leaving his account every month than coming in and his overdraft was increasing month by 
month. To me this was another warning sign that Mr N was struggling financially and over-
reliant on credit.
Overall when I think about what was on the credit search results, the proportion of his 
income that went on credit repayments and also what was showing on the bank statements 
Mr N submitted, I dont think Everyday Lending made a fair lending decision. I think on 
balance it ought reasonably to have realised that Mr N was finding it difficult to overcome his 
debt problems and keep up with his existing debt commitments, meaning it was unlikely that 
he would be able to sustainably repay this loan over the 36 month term. It follows that I dont 
think it made a fair lending decision.
Loan 2
This loan was to be repaid over a longer period and with higher monthly repayments than 
the previous loan. The monthly loan repayments had increased to £291.20 and were to be 
repaid over 42 months. If Mr N made each payment when it was due, hed pay £12,230.40 in 
total. 
Everyday Lending carried out the same checks and again I think they were proportionate.
Although on paper Mr N had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford this loan, his 
credit commitments (excluding his mortgage but including his new loan repayment to 
Everyday Lending) would still amount to more than a quarter of his net monthly income. As 
mentioned above, I think this should have been a warning sign to Everyday Lending.
Mr N had told Everyday Lending he wanted to use the loan for debt consolidation. I think 
Everyday Lending ought to have been concerned by Mr Ns need to borrow expensive credit 
for debt consolidation only around 11 months after Loan 1 which hed borrowed partly for the 
same purpose. A loan which was supposed to have been repaid out of the proceeds of Loan 
1 hadnt been repaid. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate someone was 
becoming over-reliant on credit. And whilst Mr N said he was consolidating some of his debt, 
he was substantially increasing his overall indebtedness by taking out Loan 2. 
Everyday Lending was also aware from the credit search that he hadnt managed to clear 
the three defaulted accounts hed acquired over the preceding three years although the 
balances on two of them were £429 and £100 respectively.
I think on balance it ought reasonably to have realised that Mr N would probably be unable 
to sustainably repay this loan over the 36 month term. It follows that I dont think it made a 
fair lending decision.Ive also thought about whether Everyday Lending acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
If Everyday Lending has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy it back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt, it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans;
treat any payments made by Mr N as payments towards the capital amounts of 
£2,500 and £5,000;
if Mr N has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
him with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
but if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Lending should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mr N;
remove any adverse information about the loans from Mr Ns credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. Everyday 
Lending must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr N as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman