DRN-3832829
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have blocked his transactions 
on several occasions without warning and despite him having sufficient funds in his account. 
What happened
Mr M says that he had to complain on several occasions that his transactions have been 
blocked without warning and when he has sufficient funds in his account. He says that this 
happens late at night when he is unable to get through to Halifax to get the block removed. 
He says this has left him in a vulnerable position without access to his money and caused 
him embarrassment. 
Halifax issued a final response letter on 15 August 2022 saying the transactions Mr M had 
complained about were attempted using his Wallet Pay. It said that on occasions Mr M 
would be required to enter his card and PIN when making a purchase and so he should 
ensure he had his card with him. In response to the specific issue Mr M raised, Halifax said 
that Mr M had reached his daily limit for Wallet Pay purchases via contactless, and so 
needed to use his card to make contactless or chip and PIN purchases for the rest of the 
day. It noted that Mr M said he had tried to use chip and PIN but Halifax said it had no record 
of this. 
Mr M raised his complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service, noting that this issue had 
arisen on several occasions.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that the issues relating to all his 
blocked transactions should be considered to see if he had been treated fairly and 
communicated with properly.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr M is frustrated by the issues he experienced when trying to make 
transactions and I have taken into account the fact that he raised his concerns about this 
more than once. However, having considered that details of this complaint I do not find that I 
can say Halifax has done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. I say this for the following 
reasons:
Mr M was making payments through his Wallet Pay when the issue occurred. In its 
final response letter dated 15 August 2022, Halifax explained that Mr M had reached 
the limit on his use of Wallet Pay which meant he needed to use his card to make 
contactless or chip and PIN transactions for the rest of the day. While I appreciate 
this was inconvenient for him, as Mr M had reached his limit on this occasion, I do 
not find that I can say Halifax did anything wrong by blocking the transaction. 
Mr M has said he has raised previous complaints about the same issue. Halifax has 
confirmed that Mr M raised three complains in total, one wasnt continued as the call 
wasnt completed and the other, raised in July 2022, was about the same issue. This 
decision is in response to the issue addressed in the 15 August 2022 final response 
letter, but I have also considered that he had raised the issue previously. However, 
as it has been explained that Mr M had reached his Wallet Pay limit and this was the 
reason for the block, I do not find I can say that Halifax did anything wrong.
Mr M has said the issue resulted in him being left without access to his money. While 
he wasnt able to use his Wallet Pay at the time, he could still have used his card to 
make transactions. The information provided by Halifax about the Wallet Pay says 
customers should make sure they have their card with them as transactions can be 
restricted and some retailers may set limits. Halifax has said it has no record of Mr M 
trying to use his card and chip and PIN in this case.
When the transaction was blocked Mr M says he tried to get through to the fraud 
department and wasnt able to. I understand why this will have been annoying and 
Halifax has apologised for the delays. However, in this case Mr Ms card wasnt 
blocked due to a fraud alert but instead because he had reached his daily limit for 
Wallet Pay. 
Overall, while I can understand why Mr M is upset that his transactions were blocked, for the 
reasons set out above, I do not find that Halifax did anything wrong by taking the action it did 
or that Mr M has been treated unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman