DRN-2530134
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A, represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC), complain that Sun 
Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) mis-sold them a reviewable 
whole-of-life policy.
What happened
In January 1997 Mr and Mrs A met with an advisor from Sun Life. It was recorded that they 
wanted family protection to cover them in the event of death or a critical illness. Sun Life sold 
them a whole-of-life policy on a joint life, first death basis. The policy was unit-linked and 
reviewable which meant there was a possibility of building up an investment as well as 
providing the cover. Initially the policy was set up to provide a sum assured of £100,000 and 
critical illness cover of £40,000. It cost around £68 per month. The advisor said they would 
review Mr and Mrs As needs in six months.
In October 1997, following further advice, Mr and Mrs A increased their critical illness cover 
to £80,000. At this point their policy cost around £69 per month which would increase each 
year by 5% as they had selected to escalate the premiums over 20 years.
In 2004, Mr and Mrs A contacted Sun Life and asked for a quote to increase their life cover 
to £180,000 and their critical illness cover to £110,000. They went ahead with the change 
but hadnt received any advice from Sun Life regarding this.
In 2012 Mr and Mrs A stopped paying their premiums. Their policy lapsed around four 
months later. Mr and Mrs A say this was because they couldnt afford the premiums.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs A complained. Their CMC said that they werent given suitable advice 
as they werent given the alternative option of purchasing term assurance. It also said that it 
was unaffordable which is demonstrated in the policy lapsing. Later, the CMC also said Mr 
and Mrs A werent aware it was reviewable and that the policy lapsing showed they didnt 
want cover for the whole of their lives. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She explained that the documents at the point 
of sale show Mr and Mrs A were looking for life and critical illness cover for an indefinite 
period. She explained the cover provided this and didnt appear unsuitable from their 
circumstances recorded at the time. She explained that as the recommendation was 
suitable, she didnt expect to see a term assurance plan offered.
The investigator also explained there was nothing to suggest the premiums werent 
affordable at the time it was sold. And that it was clear from the information provided that the 
policy was suitable. She didnt think Sun Life had mis-sold this policy.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed. Their CMC said that allowing the policy to lapse showed they didnt 
want indefinite life cover and that their financial position shows the premium was expensive 
for them at the time. They believe the policy was unsuitable and the absence of offering a 
term assurance policy shows this wasnt suitable. Mr and Mrs A asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint so it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed the documents from the time Mr and Mrs A received their advice. I can see 
they were married, had two children and had a mortgage which was covered by an 
endowment policy at the time. They had some savings and it was addressed they didnt 
have any protection in place for their family if theyd died or became critically ill.
My role is to determine whether Sun Lifes recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs A at 
the time they received advice. I can see that the advisor recommended a policy based on Mr 
and Mrs A needing cover for life and critical illness. Theres no indication that they wanted to 
have protection for a specific period of time. And its clear there wasnt any other protection 
in place.
The policy Mr and Mrs A took out provided both life cover and critical illness cover. This 
meant that if one of them passed away or became critically ill they would get a lump sum. As 
they had two children to support, as well as earning equal salaries, I dont think this was 
unsuitable. Given this policy best met their needs and circumstances at the time, I wouldnt 
have expected Sun Life to have offered a term assurance policy as well  which is why Mr 
and Mrs As CMC believes this advice to be unsuitable. I can see that the reasons why 
letter explained that this particular policy had been recommended because this protection 
could be in place for an indefinite period. I cant see that it was taken out for any need other 
than family protection. So, there doesnt appear to be a specific period that this would be 
important to Mr and Mrs A. As such, I dont think the recommendation was unsuitable, or that 
a term assurance policy wouldve been the most suitable recommendation in these 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs As policy lapsed shortly after they stopped paying the premiums. Their CMC 
has said this was because they could no longer afford it. Whilst this must have been a 
difficult decision for them to make, it doesnt mean the advice was unsuitable at the outset, 
or that it was unaffordable. I can see the advisor documents Mr and Mrs As earnings, 
savings and outgoings. Initially the amount to be set aside for this policy was far higher than 
the actual premium. The premiums started at around £68 per month and later increased to 
around £69 per month. The premium then increased each year due to indexation  an option 
that was chosen and explained to Mr and Mrs A. It was Mr and Mrs A who then increased 
their cover without advice in 2004, which wouldve led to an increased premium. Ive not 
seen anything about Mr and Mrs As circumstances in 1997 to suggest that the premiums for 
this policy were unaffordable for them.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs As CMC also said that their action of letting the policy lapse 
shows they didnt want life cover for an indefinite period. But I dont think its fair to use their 
actions some 15 years later to indicate whether the advice in 1997 was suitable. 
Circumstances do change, and Mr and Mrs A have said it became unaffordable. As I think it 
was affordable at the outset, I dont think that Sun Life has done anything wrong here.
I can see that Mr and Mrs As CMC said they wouldnt have been aware the policy was 
reviewable. But from the documents Ive seen, I think its clear the policy would be reviewed. 
And the reviewable nature of it doesnt make the recommendation unsuitable. Mr and Mrs A 
wanted life cover and critical illness cover for family protection. This particular policy was 
designed to build up an investment element which could support the premiums as the cost of providing both life and critical illness cover increased. This doesnt mean it was unsuitable 
for them at the time. And this policy allowed Mr and Mrs A to make changes over the years, 
something I can see they did.
To summarise, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that the advice Sun Life gave Mr and 
Mrs A was unsuitable for them. So, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman