DRN-2564620
The complaint
Mr I complains about Gefion Insurance A/S (Gefion), who provided his taxi insurance. Hes 
unhappy with Gefions valuation of his vehicle after it was deemed a total loss. Mr I is also 
unhappy with the service he received during the claims handling process.
What happened
Mr Is taxi was hit by a third party whilst it was parked outside his house. Witnesses to the 
accident managed to get the vehicle registration details of the third party before they fled the 
scene. Mr I claimed for the damage through his taxi insurance with Gefion. His taxi was 
deemed a total loss. After turning down the first settlement offer, he accepted Gefions next 
settlement offer and confirmed receipt of the payment of £6,300, net of all excess charges, 
on 25 November 2019. He also kept the vehicle under this settlement.
Mr I says hes unhappy with how Gefion handled his claim. He says it didnt keep him 
informed about its progress and took too long to settle the claim. Mr I also says he doesnt 
think the valuation he accepted was fair. 
Gefion says that it initially offered £8275.00 for the settlement of the claim. Mr I didnt accept 
this and raised a formal complaint about both the settlement offered and the way the claim 
had been handled. In the end Gefion offered a settlement valuing the vehicle at £10,000. 
After the £700 excess and £3,000 salvage costs were deducted, Mr I kept the vehicle and 
received payment for the remaining £6,300. Mr I still wasnt happy. So he complained to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld his complaint. Although he felt that the valuation was fair, he felt that 
Gefion should compensate Mr I £300 for the lack of communication and for the 
inconvenience hed been put through. He also felt that Gefion should reduce the excess it 
applied by £200 as per the policy terms. As Gefion didnt reply to our investigator, this 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I note that despite several requests for Gefions files on this complaint, its not 
responded to this service. Its agent has sent some files on the matter. And I also have 
access to information about this complaint provided by Mr I. So my decision will be based on 
the information I have from Mr I and Gefions agent.
Looking first at the part of the complaint about the valuation, I note that this services role in 
such disputes is not to provide an exact valuation of the vehicle in question but to
determine whether the business offer is reasonable. Our starting point is to look at four 
specialist motor trade guides. We use Glasss, CAPs, Parkers and Cazana. The valuations 
they provide are calculated on the likely sales prices and not advertised prices.
Mr Is policy booklet states the following:
Under SECTION A  DAMAGE TO YOUR VEHICLE 
The most we will pay:
We will not pay more than the lesser of the market value of the vehicle at the time of the
loss and the amount your vehicle is insured for less any excesses. If you bought your
vehicle at a lower price than would normally be found in UK trade guides, we will reduce
the market value accordingly.
As Mr Is vehicle was deemed a total loss, under the terms of his policy Gefion were obliged 
to pay the market value of the vehicle immediately before the loss. So to see whether its 
offer was reasonable, I need to see if £10,000 reasonably reflected the value of the vehicle 
before the claim. 
Considering the mileage of the vehicle and assuming it to have been in a clean/good 
condition, Ive reached the following valuations:
Glasss £9,130
CAPs £8,650
Cazana £8,903
No data was available for Mr Is vehicle on Parkers.
Given the average of these valuations is a little under £9,000, the £10,000 settlement offer 
(before excess and salvage charges) Gefion made looks to be fair and reasonable. So I 
wont be asking Gefion to reconsider its settlement offer.
Mr I has also noted the Prompt Reporting Benefit in his policy booklet. This says:
Where you are involved in an accident with another party and blame rests with you in full
or in part the total excess(es) payable by you as shown in your schedule will be reduced
by £200 provided that you fully comply with the following claim/incident reporting
requirements:
1. That you report the accident using our incident reporting line 0345 184 9999 and;
2. That you have reported the accident in full within 72 hours following the date and time
of the accident and;
3. As an integral part of your notification in 1 and 2 above that we are provided with full
details of the other party defined as a minimum of either:
3.1 The full name of the other party and at least one valid telephone number and the
registration number of their vehicle
or:
3.2 The full name of the other party, their full home postal address and post code and
their vehicle registration number
Mr I feels hes met reporting requirements 1 and 2.  And notes hes provided the third-party
registration number, telephone number and their full name. But this excess reduction doesnt 
seem to have been applied. From the evidence Ive seen, Gefion shouldve reduced the 
excess it charged Mr I by £200 in line with this policy term.
Now I will look at the service Mr I received during the claim.
Mr I explained he had to chase Gefion for updates throughout the claim. Ive not seen the full 
contact or claim notes from Gefion so its difficult to assess this. But I have received the 
emails Mr I had from when the claim was originally raised. I also note that Gefions agent 
has confirmed that its been pursuing the third-party insurer for the claim. And that its 
instructed its solicitors to take further action. Although its common for claims going through 
litigation to take time, I expect the insurer to update the policyholder about this.
 
Mr I has also provided his detailed call notes showing dates, duration and a summary of the 
calls he had with Gefions agent. There were many calls noted, taking lots of Mr Is time. It appears from these that Mr I didnt receive call backs on many occasions. He also looks to 
have been given contradicting information. So he doesnt appear to have been served well. 
Although its common for a policyholder to experience some inconvenience when making a 
claim like this, I think Gefion and its agents have caused more than the usual amount of 
inconvenience in this claim.  
I also think that due to the nature of Mr Is job, the length of the claim and the lack of clear 
updates wouldve been particularly distressing to him. Mr I needed a vehicle so he could 
work. So having to chase up his claim for eight weeks wouldve had a big impact on him.
The call notes Mr I provided also suggest that he made more than 100 calls between 12 
September 2019 and 2 December 2019. Taking all of this into account, I think Gefion should 
pay Mr I £300 for the distress and inconvenience its caused him.
Putting things right
In summary, and in the absence of any claim or contact notes from Gefion, I require it to 
compensate Mr I £300 for its lack of communication and the calls hes made to receive 
updates on his claim. I also require Gefion to reduce the excess by £200 as per the policy.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Is complaint. 
I require Gefion Insurance A/S to pay Mr I £300 for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
him over the course of the claim. I also require it to pay Mr I £200 in respect of the Prompt 
Reporting Benefit.
Gefion Insurance A/S must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we
tell it Mr I accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
*If Gefion Insurance A/S consider that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they 
should tell Mr I how much its taken off. It should also give Mr I a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman