DRN-2875491
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC made mistakes dealing with his fraud claim on his 
credit card account and this led to a late payment marker being added to his credit file.
What happened
Mr P reported transactions he didnt recognise made through an online payment service. He 
believed that these had been refunded and his account closed. But two payments were re-
debited and resulted in the late payment marker being added before they were fully 
refunded. He says that this came a time when he had to move home and change his car and 
resulted in financial loss for him.
Lloyds has dealt with this complaint through a number of final response letters as follows. On 
28 May 2020 it said to Mr P that the third-party online payment service had refunded the 
payments to the account. This resulted in a credit on the account and this was sent to Mr P. 
It was confirmed that his account had been closed  which had been at his request. On 11 
August 2020 it said that it had re-debited two of these payments totalling £25.46 in error on 1 
June 2020. Interest had been added and it said that it should have arranged for the amount 
resulting of £26.10 to be refunded then. This didnt happen until 6 August 2020 and it said 
that at the time there were no late payment markers and that it would monitor the account. It 
sent Mr P compensation of £100. On 2 November 2020 it said that a late payment marker on 
the account had been removed by 22 October 2020. It believed this might have been added 
due to the interest on the earlier disputed amount before it was recredited and it apologised 
for not having arranged an interest waiver. It paid Mr P £50 compensation and £10 in call 
costs by cheque saying that this was for poor service when he telephoned, had been kept on 
hold and was then cut off. On 4 November 2020 it told Mr P it wouldnt be paying any further 
compensation for the impact of the late payment marker. It said that it had removed the 
marker and replaced it with a dispute marker already. And that it had to report accurate 
information to the credit reference agencies.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and Mr P paid a further £250 in 
compensation making a total of £400 (with in addition the £10 he had been paid for call 
costs). He said that the issue was now compensation as Lloyds had refunded all the 
disputed payments and removed the adverse credit information. Lloyds had accepted it 
made an error in re-debiting the payments. And this had been compounded by interest being 
added to the amount. He said he could only look here at the impact on Mr P and not on his 
wife who wasnt the account holder.
Mr P said that they had to move from their rented accommodation in August 2020 and pay a 
deposit on a new property. He also said it was necessary to change their car as it wasnt 
working properly. As a result of the late payment marker he was unable to access finance 
elsewhere having tried to increase his overdraft on his Lloyds current account and apply for 
a credit card again. As he was unable to raise money for the deposit on the new rental 
property he didnt bother trying to finance the vehicle. Instead he paid for this out of money 
he took out of his pension. And a family member was also prepared to help him with money 
if he couldnt get this in time for the deposit.
Our investigator said that without clear evidence it is difficult to conclude that the late 
payment marker was the sole reason why Mr P was declined for credit. And a credit 
application can be complex, and decisions made against a wide variety of criteria. Mr P was 
caused inconvenience and some embarrassment at having to approach a family member. 
But he was able to secure replacement accommodation.
The issue dragged on longer than it needed to. And this would have added to the distress 
and inconvenience caused. As would finding out there was adverse information recorded 
against him. So, our investigator thought that the compensation wasnt sufficient. He noted 
Mr P had raised another issue about the refund of a deposit of £40 for a holiday and he said 
that he would need to raise that with Lloyds first before this service could look into this.
Lloyds didnt agree, and it said that the compensation was excessive. It said that there was 
only one late marker showing on the credit file for September 2020 although it accepted that 
it had promised to monitor the account. And this marker was removed in October 2020. It 
thought that the amount already paid was more in line with what the impact of what 
happened.
Mr P didnt agree that this was sufficient compensation. He said that a corporate giant like 
Lloyds needed to be brought to task and he asked who else would do this. He said its 
indifferent attitude had affected his life and he would pursue this further. He said that he took 
over £40,000 out of his pension and that he cant put this back. He had wasted a significant 
amount of time over 14 months in dealing with this. And he wanted realistic compensation. 
He said he didnt cash the cheque for £60 and that he hasnt been receiving refunds that 
should have been paid back to Lloyds  now he reports this happening for another 
transaction of £53.50.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need first to say that I wont be dealing with issues that havent been addressed in a 
response from Lloyds. And I set out above the specific ones Ive covered here. If Mr P is due 
further refunds then as our investigator has said he needs to raise that first with Lloyds. I 
also need to say that we provide informal dispute resolution and our role isnt to punish 
businesses but to address the impact of what happened for Mr P.
I am sorry to hear Mr P has been the victim of fraud and that a number of payments were 
made using an online payment service, despite his efforts to address this, following similar 
problems in 2019.
He reasonably believed that this had been dealt with not least because having paid his card 
account in full including these amounts he was then given a refund when the account was 
closed. In error two of the disputed payments were applied again and with interest his 
statement showed that he needed to pay £26.10 by 20 July 2020. He didnt do so for 
understandable reasons. And Lloyds accepted that this was its error and credited the money 
on 6 August 2020. That wasnt sufficient to stop a small amount of interest on the late 
payment being debited and this wasnt refunded which seemed to contribute to there being a 
late payment marker.
Lloyds has given information to this service about those payment markers. It originally said 
to our investigator that these were initially applied because Mr P[] refused to pay but we 
should have removed them sooner once fraud confirmed. Hence payments made on second 
complaint and removal agreed. It now says that the marker was only in place for three weeks relating to a small amount of additional interest. Im not satisfied given what has been 
said and from what Ive seen that there was no earlier marker from 20 July 2020 possible at 
least until the account balance was corrected on 6 August 2020. 
I need to consider the impact on Mr P of what happened. I think it reasonable to work on the 
basis that he was given any appropriate notice to move out of existing accommodation. Had 
he not been that was something to take up with his landlord. Hes shown he needed to pay a 
deposit on a new property of just over £2,000 at the relevant time. He said he couldnt raise 
this in any other way through finance. But as our investigator has said hes not got evidence 
to show he was turned down. And he says he had asked a family member to make 
arrangements to cover this amount. He also decided he needed to change the car at this 
time. He didnt try to apply for finance so I agree with our investigator that its not possible to 
say that he couldnt have otherwise obtained this  or that any marker would be the sole 
reason he couldnt. I dont know if he had the option of deferring such a large purchase while 
any issue he believed down to Lloyds was addressed. In the event it was his choice to 
withdraw money from his pension fund. He as a result had the benefit of the car and didnt 
pay any finance interest. I dont consider I can reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for any 
net financial consequences even if these could be fairly calculated.
Putting things right
I agree that Mr P was caused needless distress and inconvenience. A mistake was made, 
his credit record was affected, and he had to contact Lloyds on a number of occasions 
shown through the further final responses. The amount of compensation is a matter for my 
judgement, and this reflects the impact Ive identified and isnt designed to be punitive.
I think that £400 in total is fair. Lloyds sent £100 to his account. If he didnt cash the cheque 
for £60 which included the further £50 offered then Lloyds should cover that amount too to 
ensure he receives a total of £410 including the £10 for call costs. I appreciate Mr P will 
remain disappointed by this and if he doesnt accept my decision remains free to pursue this 
in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr P further compensation so that he 
receives a total of £410 including the allowance for call costs as I explained above. It should 
net anything it has already paid him from this amount.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman