DRN-3720501
The complaint
Mr P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Financial Services (VWFS) misrepresented a car he acquired via a contract hire 
agreement.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr P entered into a three-year contract hire agreement for a new car with 
VWFS. The agreement contained an annual mileage limit of 10,000. Mr P says he was 
advised that the car had a flexible servicing plan meaning that it required servicing every 
two years or 18,000 miles whichever came first.
In February 2021, when the car had travelled around 9,000 miles, its service light 
illuminated. Mr P attended a local manufacturer approved garage and was given the 
option of either having an interim service or a major service carried out. Mr P chose an 
interim service which involved an oil change. This service cost around £250.
Mr P says that in August 2021, and after hed driven a further 4,000 miles in the car, the 
service indicator light again illuminated. He spoke with a manufacturer approved garage 
and was advised that the car would need a major service. Mr P says he was quoted 
around £580 for this to be performed and it would include changing the oil, brake fluid and 
pollen filter.
However due to the work undertaken on the car earlier in February, the cost of the service 
was reduced to about £260 as the oil had already been changed and it was agreed that 
the brake fluid and pollen filter could wait until the car had reached around 18,000 in its 
mileage.
Mr P queried the cars servicing schedule with the manufacturer and says he found the 
information about the flexible service plan misleading as to how it applied. The 
manufacturer said that the flexible servicing schedule depended on how the car was used 
and style of driving. Mr P queried how the plan could be considered flexible when it set 
out that the vehicle would require servicing on a two-yearly basis which gave the 
impression of a fixed schedule. 
Mr P complained to VWFS that the car had been misrepresented as to its servicing 
schedule. He said he had only expected to have the car serviced once during his contract 
term with VWFS.
VWFS didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said that the finance agreement didnt include a 
term for the provision of services, maintenance or tyres. And that the information as to the 
cars service schedule had been supplied by the dealer. VWFS said that having spoken 
with its own maintenance department it would recommend that as Mr Ps annual mileage 
was less than 10,000, that the car should be placed on a fixed service plan of once a year 
or once every 10,000 miles whichever comes sooner. But it said it would have been for 
the supplying dealership to confirm this information with Mr P at the point of supply. 
VWFS said it had therefore raised a complaint on his behalf and passed it to the 
dealership to respond.
Mr P disagreed with VWFSs view. He said his contract was with VWFS and not the 
supplying dealer and his contact with the dealership had been minimal. Mr P said that 
he thought it had been both VWFS and the supplying dealership which had given him 
information about the servicing schedule that applied to the car.
Mr P said that it would be fair for VWFS to refund him the cost of the first service and to 
commit to cover the cost of the next minor service that would be anticipated from 
February 2022 onwards. Alternately VWFS should pay for the August 2021 service.
Mr P said that he was misled about the service schedule and, had he been aware of the 
true cost, then it was likely he would have made a different decision about entering into 
this contract hire agreement. He said the car wasnt as described.
Mr P said that he had spoken to a number of other dealerships who supply this make 
of vehicle and found the majority had failed to understand how the two service 
schedules recommended by the manufacturer actually applied. He said this showed 
that consumers were being misled as to the frequency of services required by this 
make of vehicles.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She said she 
didnt think VWFS had misrepresented the car to Mr P and that there had been no 
breach of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 in that the car was as described in the contract 
hire agreement.
Mr P disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that the two servicing schedules 
set out in the manufacturers website were misleading as to how they applied to vehicles. 
Mr P said he had been financially disadvantaged by being informed his vehicle only 
required a service every two years or 18,000 miles and that he hadnt been able to make 
an informed choice when he entered the contract hire agreement. He says the car wasnt 
as described and he also raised that he believed the Misrepresentation Act 1967 also 
applied.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional view along the following lines.
The make of vehicle that Mr P had selected when entering into the contract hire 
agreement with VWFS had two service schedules available, the fixed inspection service 
and the flexible service plan.
The fixed inspection service set out that the vehicle should be serviced every year or 
after 10,000 miles whichever comes sooner. Id seen that the manufacturer said this 
plan was for those who drive less than 10,000 miles a year and where the vehicle was 
used for mainly town centre driving. The flexible service plan set out that the car was to 
be serviced every two years or 18,000 miles whichever came sooner. This plan suited 
those that drove over 10,000 miles a year, using the vehicle for longer distances at a 
constant speed.
Id seen that the manufacturer said that the majority of vehicles were set to the flexible 
service regime when leaving the factory and customers then chose which service plan, 
they wanted depending on their driving style. I thought it was reasonable to say that it was 
the supplying dealership which then arranged the appropriate service plan.
Ive seen Mr P had researched the two servicing schedules that were available with 
his vehicle and had also been in contact with the manufacturer. The manufacturer, 
although disputing that the wording on its website was misleading, has agreed that it should be re- written to enhance its customer service. Mr P said he had also contacted 
28 dealers and conducted enquiries as to their knowledge about how the two service 
plans worked and found that the majority hadnt appeared to understand how the 
plans applied.
Mr P had raised a concern that VWFS might have been influenced about how it had 
handled his complaint by the manufacturer. However, I hadnt seen any evidence that the 
manufacturer had discussed the issue with VWFS. VWFSs response had always been 
that it wasnt responsible for information provided by the dealership to Mr P about the 
cars servicing requirement.
There were a number of issues for me to consider here. These were whether there had 
been  a misrepresentation about the cars servicing requirements and, if there had, 
whether VWFS as the provider of the hire agreement was liable, whether there had been 
a misdescription of the goods and whether the hire agreement itself had been 
misrepresented.
I didnt think it was disputed that Mr P had been told the vehicle hed chosen to acquire 
under the contract hire agreement came with a flexible service plan and that meant it 
would require a service after two years or 18,000 miles whichever came sooner. It was 
also not disputed that the car had required servicing sooner than Mr P had been led to 
expect. Mr P said he had been provided with the service schedule information from the 
supplying dealer but also possibly from VWFS. However, I hadnt seen any evidence that 
VWFS had been involved in any of the pre-agreement negotiations nor did it appear to 
have answered any queries about the car or hire agreement before Mr P had signed the 
contract. VWFS said that service plans were a matter for the dealership and not itself.
Id seen that the information about the two service plans was set out in the 
manufacturers website. Mr P had also described the various conversations he had with 
dealerships salespersons about the vehicle, and that at least one salesperson had 
referred to the manufacturers website when discussing the cars servicing 
requirements. I also hadnt seen any evidence that VWFS had provided Mr P with any 
brochures or other material that set out the car only required servicing every two years 
or 18,000 miles.
So, looking at the evidence, I thought it was more likely than not that it was the 
supplying dealership who had both provided information, and dealt with Mr Ps 
enquiries about, the cars performance, maintenance and service requirements and not 
VWFS.
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 finance companies, such as VWFS, 
may be held liable for things that are said in pre-sale negotiations. This meant that if a 
vehicle was misrepresented to a consumer by a suppling dealer then the finance 
company could be responsible for putting that right. But this section doesnt apply to 
contract hire agreements unless the antecedent negotiations were carried out by the 
creditor or owner (here that was VWFS) or if the dealership had been acting as VWFSs 
agent or had acted with actual or apparent authority.
As set out above, I was satisfied that VWFS hadnt been involved in the antecedent 
negotiations about the hire agreement. And under the terms of the hire agreement it set 
out at term 6.2 under the heading Exclusions that Any dealer or manufacturer involved 
with this agreement before or after it starts is not our agent. We are not responsible for 
anything they say, do or fail to do unless we have given them written authority to act as 
out agent..
Id asked VWFS about whether written authorisation had been issued to this dealership and it hadnt confirmed whether such authorisation was given. However, overall, Id not 
seen anything that would make me think that the dealership had acted as VWFS agent or 
that they acted with actual or apparent authority for them.
So, not only did section 56 not apply here, there was no other reason I could see that 
would make VWFS liable for anything said by the supplying dealer to Mr P prior to him 
entering into the hire agreement.
I was also satisfied that VWFS wasnt liable for anything said by the manufacturer on its 
website about the service plans. This was because the manufacturer is a separate 
company and VWFS had no control over the information it provided. And as set out 
above, VWFS hadnt provided this information itself to Mr P.
Mr P said that there was a breach of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 in that the car was 
not as described and/or that the financial agreement was caught by the Misrepresentation 
Act 1967. Looking at the contract hire agreement, Id seen that there was a term which set 
out that the vehicle is serviced and maintained strictly in line with the manufacturers 
recommendations and that scheduled servicing and necessary maintenance is carried out 
only by authorised xx dealers. But this term didnt set out that the car was to be serviced 
every two years or 18,000 miles and the manufacturers website describes two service 
schedules which were available.
Although I appreciated this would be of disappointment to Mr P, I didnt agree that the 
term in the contract hire agreement relating to servicing and maintaining the vehicle 
meant the car wasnt as described in the contract. This term required Mr P to have the car 
serviced and maintained as recommended by the manufacturer so I thought this would 
mean taking action when the service light illuminated. It didnt stipulate which service 
schedule must be applied.
Although I was satisfied that VWFS hadnt misrepresented anything to Mr P regarding the 
car, that didnt extinguish any rights he may have against the dealership as provided for by 
The Misrepresentation Act 1967.
For the reasons given above I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
VWFS says it has nothing it wishes to add to my decision. 
Mr P has disagreed with my provisional view. He says that under a hire agreement it is the 
finance company and not the driver/hirer which is the customer of the supplying dealership 
and the legal owner of the car. This means that the driver/hirer has no contract or legal 
relationship with either the lease broker, supplying dealership, or manufacturer. And that the 
driver/hirers contract is solely with the finance company and it is them, the finance company, 
that enters into a contract with the supplying dealership and so his legal rights rest solely 
with VWFS.
Mr P also says that in respect of the Misrepresentation Act 1967, while it is necessary to 
show that misrepresentation occurred, it is not necessary to prove that it was the contracting 
party who made, or repeated, that misrepresentation. As such, he wishes to draw my 
attention to the concepts of Negligent and Innocent misrepresentation.
Mr P has also raised a number of issues with the way the background of the case has been 
set out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr P feels very strongly about his complaint and he has raised a number of 
comments regarding the way the chronology of events has been described saying that it 
would be more accurate to describe them in a slightly different way. However, while I mean 
no disrespect to Mr P, Im satisfied that the chronology doesnt need amending as there 
arent factual errors in what has been recorded rather Mr P suggests a slightly different 
nuance by his proposed rewording. Im satisfied that none of the proposed amendments by 
Mr P impact on my overall conclusions.
Mr P says that I appear to have reached a decision that VWFS wasnt the contracting party 
in the hiring agreement. However, I would disagree I made that finding. I accept the car 
belongs to VWFS and it is the contracting party for the hire agreement, not the supplying 
dealership. However, the issue her was whether VWFS had made any pre-contract 
statements about the car prior to Mr P entering into the hire agreement. Mr P, in his 
response, has agreed with my provisional view that VWFS took no part in the pre-
negotiations. He says he accepts the information about the cars service schedule was 
provided to him by a third-party, namely the supplying dealer.
Mr P says that the manufacturer intended that the servicing needs of those driving their cars 
were to be qualified and that it was unclear whether VWFS or the supplying dealer 
understood the manufacturers expectation in terms of qualifying those needs. He says that if 
VWFS had understood that expectation, then it had delegated that responsibility of qualifying 
those service needs to the dealer. And that as VWFS had stated it had made no 
representations regarding the service schedule then it should be inferred it had delegated 
this authority.
However, the manufacturer is a separate entity to VWFS, and I cant reasonably hold VWFS 
liable for any expectations the manufacturer may or may not have had about a third-party 
providing information about its vehicles. I havent seen any evidence that the manufacturer 
had voiced that expectation directly to VWFS and that VWFS had accepted the task of 
qualifying with any customers their individual service needs. So, in turn I cant reasonably 
say that VWFS had delegated this task to the supplying dealer.
Mr P has raised that VWFS hasnt adequately responded to my enquiry as to whether written 
authority had been provided to the supplying dealer to act as its agent when arranging this 
hire agreement (as required by the exclusion term set out above). He asks that I press this 
issue with VWFS and if I dont receive an appropriate response to draw an inference from 
that. However, I havent gone back to VWFS on this point as I have already asked this 
question and I dont feel its necessary to repeat this enquiry. Where evidence is missing or 
contradictory then its for me to reach a decision based on the balance of probabilities. Here, 
Im satisfied that the exclusion set out in term 6.2 of the agreement is a specific term for this 
hire agreements and therefore for VWFS to have given written authorisation to a third-party 
would be unusual. And there is no evidence that VWFS had treated this supplying dealership 
and this hire agreement differently. So, I think its reasonable to conclude that it is more likely 
than not that VWFS had not provided written authorisation that the dealership act as its 
agent for hire agreements.
Im therefore satisfied that section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 did not apply to the 
pre-sales negotiations between the supplying dealer and Mr P. I still dont think VWFS was 
liable for anything that was said to Mr P by the supplying dealer about the servicing 
schedule.
Mr P says he has raised his complaint about being misled over the servicing schedule with 
the FCA who responded that they would expect firms to communicate in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading and adhere to CONC. 4.2. He says the FCA had also 
recognised that clarity provided in respect of servicing options could ultimately influence a 
consumers choice. Mr P says VWFS failures over qualifying the servicing needs would be 
covered by these provisions. 
While I appreciate what the FCA has said, I disagree with Mr Ps conclusion. For the reasons 
set out above, I dont think VWFS was responsible for what was said about the servicing 
schedule. I also think the terms and conditions of the hire agreement were clearly set out in 
the contract signed by Mr P. 
Mr P raises the Misrepresentation Act 1967 and says that it isnt necessary to prove that it 
was the contracting party who made or repeated a misrepresentation. He says that here 
VWFS could be considered to have acted either negligently in that it failed to recognise that 
the manufacturers flexible service interval claim had the potential to mislead. Or, 
alternatively, that this was an innocent misrepresentation in that the flexible servicing 
schedule is a term of the hire agreement and VWFS, as the contracting party, is liable for 
that term.
Ive seen that the manufacturer doesnt itself accept that its service plans are misleading so I 
cant reasonably say that VWFS should have realised they were. But in any event, as set out 
above in my provisional decision, I dont think the flexible service plan is itself a term of the 
agreement. The hire agreement states, the vehicle is serviced and maintained strictly in line 
with the manufacturers recommendations. 
Ive seen that the different service schedules apply to certain driving styles. The vehicle will 
notify the driver when a service is appropriate. I think its possible that although one plan 
might be considered suitable at the start of an agreement, that the actual driving style could 
then mean that the alternative plan is required, so holding a consumer to one particular 
service plan as a contractual term could result in unfairness to the consumer. Im satisfied 
that my provisional view as to the flexible service schedule not being a term of the hire 
agreement is a fair interpretation of the wording that is in the agreement. Therefore, I dont 
think I can reasonably find that VWFS was liable here for either innocent or negligent 
misrepresentation regarding the service schedule. 
Mr P says that he is concerned that VWFS was influenced by the manufacturer as to how it 
should or did handle his complaint. He has set out he has seen an email sent from a 
manager of the manufacturer to a colleague and copied to VW Group Managers asking if 
VWFS had reached out to make a co-ordinated response and asking if they were aligned. It 
requests that a person reaches out to VWFS.
While I appreciate Mr P may have concerns about potential contact between VWFS and the 
manufacturer which hasnt been openly disclosed, I havent seen that VWFSs response to 
his complaint was unfair. It correctly set out that it hadnt made any representations about 
the cars servicing schedule and hasnt gone beyond that its not liable for anything the 
supplying dealer may have said. I cant reasonably say that VWFS acted with the 
manufacturer to unfairly handle Mr Ps complaint or act in a way that prevented him from 
taking his complaint forward.
So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr P, for the reasons set out 
above, Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman