DRN-4267961
The complaint
Miss P and Mr P complain about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) has handled two
claims on their home insurance policy and about the service they got from esure.
Although Miss P and Mr P are joint policyholders, Mr P has been dealing with the claims
and with this complaint  so Ill mostly refer to him in this decision.
esure are the underwriters of Miss P and Mr Ps policy, so its their insurer. Part of this
complaint is about how esures agents have acted. As esure has accepted its
accountable for the actions of its agents, in my decision, any reference to esure includes
the actions of its agents. 
What happened
For the purposes of this decision, Im just going to summarise what I think are the key facts
and background, since the full details of both are familiar to Miss P and Mr P and esure.
Miss P and Mr Ps home was damaged by water after there were two separate leaks in two
of their bathrooms. I understand both leaks caused damage to some (but not all) of Miss P
and Mr Ps kitchen units (among other things). So Miss P and Mr P made claims on their
home insurance policy for each of the leaks.
I understand esure initially offered to cash settle Miss P and Mr Ps claims. But when Mr P
disputed esures initial cash settlement offer, it asked Mr P to get his own quotes for the
repairs. When this proved difficult for Mr P, esure appointed its own agents to carry them
out. The schedule of works esure prepared showed Miss P and Mr P would have to
contribute 50% to the cost of replacing their undamaged kitchen units, although esure has
said it would pay all of the labour costs for replacing all of them, including those that werent
damaged.
Mr P is unhappy with esures approach to the settlement of this part of his claims and with
the level of service he and Miss P have got from esure throughout the claims process. Mr P
wants esure to pay to replace all the kitchen units, including those that werent damaged by
the leaks. Mr P has also said he wants a new cooker, hob, hood and fridge freezer. And he
has been worried his boiler has been affected by water damage.
In response to Miss P and Mr Ps initial complaint. esure said it was never its intention to
cause Miss P or Mr P any stress or upset in its handling of their claims. It also apologised if
its stance on a 50% contribution towards undamaged items wasnt explained to Miss P and
Mr P.
Following this response, and having experienced further problems with the claims, Mr P
brought his and Miss Ps complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it upheld it in part.
He recommended esure pay Miss P and Mr P £500 in compensation for the trouble and
upset its handling of their claims had caused them. But he said the terms and conditions of
Miss P and Mr Ps policy made it clear anything undamaged by the leaks wouldnt be
covered, so he thought esures offer was fair. In relation to the kitchen appliances Mr P
wanted esure to pay to replace, our investigator said he wouldnt expect esure to replace
them unless theyd been damaged. So he recommended esure get a specialist to inspect
them to see if they were.
esure didnt accept our investigators recommendation in relation to compensation. It thought
its decision to contribute 50% to the cost of replacing the undamaged kitchen units and to
cover all the labour costs for all the replacement kitchen units was fair for the service 
failings
identified.
As Ive mentioned, after our investigator gave his view on this complaint, Miss P and Mr P
had another leak in their home and have a third ongoing claim with esure. For the
avoidance of doubt, my decision here is only about Miss P and Mr Ps complaint about
esures handling of their first two claims.
I gave my provisional decision on this complaint on 3 July 2023 and explained why I 
intended to uphold Miss P and Mr Ps complaint. The decision was provisional because I 
wanted to give Miss P and Mr P and esure the chance to let me know whether the damage 
caused by Miss P and Mr Ps third leak had any impact on the damage caused by the first 
two  which in turn couldve affected my findings on this complaint.
Both Miss P and Mr P and esure have accepted my provisional decision, which has now 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Miss P and Mr Ps complaint about how esure has offered to 
settle their claims. But I do uphold Miss P and Mr Ps complaint about the service theyve 
had from esure. I explained my reasons for reaching these conclusions in my provisional 
decision as follows:
esures claim settlement offer
Mr P has said hes unhappy esure initially offered to cash settle this part of his claim,
meaning he had the trouble of getting quotes for the repairs. But Miss P and Mr Ps policy
says esure can choose how it settles their claim, including by making a cash settlement. This
is a standard term in home insurance contracts and I dont think its unfair. In any case,
though, I think esure acted fairly when it subsequently agreed to carry out the repairs itself.
Mr P wants esure to replace all of his kitchen units, including those that werent damaged by
the two leaks. I can understand why, if an exact match for the undamaged kitchen units isnt
available, Miss P and Mr P think this is fair. But Miss P and Mr Ps policy has a specific term
saying esure wont pay any extra cost in altering or replacing any items or parts of items
that arent lost or damaged that form part of a set, suite or other article, of the same type,
colour or design. And insurance policies like Miss P and Mr Ps are designed to give specific
cover for damaged items only  not for undamaged ones.
In situations like these, we think a compromise is a fair and pragmatic way forward. esure
says it will pay to replace 50% of the undamaged kitchen units and will also pay 100% of the
labour costs in replacing them. Based on what Ive seen so far, I think esures offer is fair
and reasonable.Since our investigator gave his view on this complaint, esure has sent us a breakdown of the
costs for replacing the kitchen units, including the undamaged units. It says the cost of
replacing the undamaged units is £841.51 and the associated labour costs are £474.24,
bringing a total of £1,315.75. esure says this means its contribution to the replacement of the
undamaged units is £657.88. But I think  based on this quote  esures contribution would
be £420.76 (that is, half the cost for the undamaged units) plus £474,24 (that is, the whole of
the labour costs), which totals £895. In saying this, Im mindful that this quote is from
November 2022. A number of months have now passed and so a new quote may be
needed. But I want to be clear that esures offer was to pay all of the labour costs associated
with the replacement of the units  not 50% of them  and I think its fair and reasonable it
follows through on its offer to pay all of the labour costs.
Ive mentioned that Mr P wanted some of his kitchen appliances replaced as part of his
claims. Our investigator has recently spoken to Mr P and I understand his fridge freezer and
boiler are ok but his electric oven and gas hob have been condemned. I dont know if the
damage to these last two appliances was caused by one or other of the first two leaks. But,
in any case, our approach here is that wed expect esure to replace items that are shown to
have been water damaged as part of its settlement of the claims.
esures service
Mr P says he and his family have experienced shoddy, unprofessional and insulting
treatment by esure and its agents since the time of the first leak. He also says theyve
experienced lies, delays, not returned calls, not returned emails, unable to get through by
phone to speak with anyone. Mr P says he and his family have been left with a gaping
hole in their kitchen ceiling, making the kitchen a health and safety hazard and causing
particular difficulties for Miss P. He says he also had to make arrangements to re-house the
family dog, who mostly lived in the kitchen.
Due to family illness, Mr P accepts there were some delays on his part in progressing the
claims. But esure also accepts there were avoidable delays on its part over the months. Its
position is its offer to pay 50% of the cost of the replacement kitchen units and 100% of the
labour costs fairly compensates Miss P and Mr P for its service failings. On the issue of 
esures settlement of the claim for the kitchen units, the fair and reasonable
approach is for the parties to compromise (and, as Ive said, I think esures offer does that).
The issue of compensation for the distress and inconvenience Miss P and Mr P have
suffered as a result of esures actions is, however, an entirely separate issue from the
settlement issue. Our powers allow us to make a money award for distress, inconvenience,
pain and suffering and damage to reputation. This allows us to put right the emotional or
practical impact of a businesss mistake on its customer. So thats what Ive looked at in
Miss P and Mr Ps case.
From what Ive seen so far and from what Mr P has described, as a result of esures
handling of the two claims, he and Miss P have suffered considerable distress, upset and
worry and significant inconvenience and disruption needing a lot of extra effort to sort out
over a number of months. In these circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable to direct
esure to pay them £500 in compensation for this distress and inconvenience.
As Ive already mentioned, both Miss P and Mr P and esure have accepted my provisional 
decision. And Ive seen no reason to change the conclusions I reached in it.My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision of 3 July 2023 (which now form part of this 
final decision), I uphold Miss P and Mr Ps complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited to 
pay Miss P and Mr P £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused 
them.
esure Insurance Limited must pay Miss P and Mr P this compensation within 28 days of the 
date we tell it Miss P and Mr P accept my final decision. If it doesnt, esure Insurance Limited 
must pay Miss P and Mr P interest on the compensation at the rate of 8% a year simple from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman