DRN-4230079
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car acquired with finance from Startline Motor Finance Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2022 Miss S was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement 
with Startline. At the point of supply the car was around 3 years old and had covered 
mileage of around 50,632.
Miss S experienced issues with the car on the day she collected it. When she picked up the 
car she found that the car was pulling to the left and right. Miss S reported this to the 
supplying dealer and they told her to take the car to a third party garage to have the wheels 
aligned. The supplying dealership reimbursed Miss S for the cost of the wheel alignment.
Soon afterwards Miss S experienced a loss of power. She reported this to the supplying 
dealer, who replaced the battery. Miss S was continuing to experience issues with the car 
pulling to the right. The supplying dealer told Miss S to take the car back to the third party 
garage which had carried out the wheel alignment. The third party garage identified a caster 
split.
Miss S raised a complaint with Startline and asked to reject the car.
Startline didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it didnt agree that a wheel alignment 
warranted a rejection of the car.
Miss S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that there had already been one attempt at 
repair which the wheel alignment on the day of purchase. He said that the second fault  the 
castor split  meant that Miss S could reject the car.
Startline didnt agree. It acknowledged that there had been a wheel alignment on the day of 
purchase. It said that when Miss S reported ongoing issues with the steering the supplying 
dealer offered to arrange an inspection but instead Miss S had another wheel alignment 
carried out which was an unauthorised repair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Under the relevant legislation, where a fault occurs within the first 30 days, the consumer 
has a short term right to reject the car. Where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
assumed that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up 
to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the 
fault. If the repair isnt successful the consumer can reject the car.
Ive reviewed the available information about the issues which Miss S experienced with the 
car. In this case, Miss S experienced an issue with the car pulling to the left and right on the 
day of purchase. Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that there was a fault with the car. 
Its not in dispute that the supplying dealer referred Miss S to a third party for a wheel 
alignment and met the costs of this. 
I can see that Miss S contacted the supplying dealer after the wheel alignment had been 
caried out and reported ongoing issues with the steering. The dealerships notes record that 
Miss S asked to reject the car on 9 December 2022 and was advised that she should put her 
request in writing. I can also see that the dealership subsequently refused Miss Ss request 
to reject on the basis of the wheel alignment and offered to arrange a diagnostic to identify 
any faults.
Ive seen photos provided by Miss S which show that a further wheel alignment was 
completed by a different garage. Startline has said that this was an unauthorised repair 
which prevented the dealership from diagnosing the fault.
Ive taken everything into account but Im of the view that the first wheel alignment was the 
opportunity to repair under the relevant legislation. I accept Miss Ss testimony that the repair 
didnt resolve the issues with the steering. The evidence shows that the car was returned to 
a garage for a further alignment after this repair, and that the alignment was outside of the 
allowable tolerance. The evidence also shows that the caster was split. In my view, this was 
the second repair attempt after the alignment had failed and the caster split was the second 
fault with the car.
The first attempt at repair was unsuccessful in remedying the steering issue, and a further 
fault was diagnosed at the second repair attempt. Under the relevant legislation, the car is 
treated as an entirety, and only one repair attempt is allowed if a fault is diagnosed in the 
first 6 months. As soon as the second fault was diagnosed here, Miss S was entitled to reject 
the car.
Startline has said that the second repair was an unauthorised repair. I dont think this is 
relevant to my decision here, which is based on the dealership having already had one 
opportunity to repair the fault. That repair wasnt successful and under the relevant 
legislation Miss S is entitled to reject the car.
Putting things right
Ive already explained why I think Miss S should be allowed to reject the car. Startline should 
cancel the agreement and arrange to collect the car at no cost to Miss S.
I can see that Miss S has been able to use the car despite the steering issues and split 
castor, so I wont be asking Startline to refund all of the monthly payments. But I think Miss S 
should receive a refund of 30% of her payments to reflect the impaired use she had of the 
car.
Its clear that Miss S has been caused some distress and inconvenience as a result of being 
supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Shes explained the impact that it had 
on her. I think its fair to ask Startline to pay compensation to reflect this. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Startline Motor Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss S
Refund 30% of monthly payments made by Miss S
Refund the deposit
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman