DRN-4220123
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Avivas) handling of a claim he made 
under the block property insurance policy which covers his buy-to-let flat.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr H is unhappy with the time it took for Aviva to 
validate, accept and settle a claim he made following a burglary at a buy-to-let property he 
owns. He says hes suffered a significant loss of rental income as well as distress and 
inconvenience as a result of Avivas poor handling of his clam.
Our investigator said that Aviva had issued two separate final responses to complaints made 
by Mr H, each giving a timeframe for Mr H to escalate his concerns to our service. She said 
Mr H brought the complaint answered in the first final response too late  so our service 
wouldnt be able to consider those parts of Mr Hs complaint. But she said we could consider 
the impact of any unreasonable delays from May 2022 onwards, as these issues were 
answered in the second final response letter and Mr H had referred those concerns to our 
service in time.
Our investigator thought Mr Hs complaint about delays from May 2022 onward should be 
partially upheld. She said Aviva was responsible for unreasonable delays between 
June 2022 and October 2022, and again between October 2022 and November 2022. So, 
she recommended it should pay £250 to compensate for this. In terms of loss of rent, she 
said Mr Hs policy did not provide cover for this. She also highlighted that the property was 
not let at the time of the incident, and that she hadnt seen any evidence to confirm that it 
would have been let during the period of the claim, if it werent for Avivas delays. So, she 
didnt think Aviva needed to reimburse Mr H for any alleged loss of rental income.
Mr H seems to have accepted that our service is unable to consider the issues covered in 
Avivas first final response, as he hasnt made any further representations about those 
issues. But he didnt agree that the compensation recommended for the issues we have 
considered was fair  given the alleged loss of rent he says he has suffered. He says if it 
werent for Avivas delays, he would have been able to let the property by June 2022 at the 
latest. So, he says Aviva should cover loss of rent at £750 per month between June 2022 
and November 2022 as a minimum.
As no agreement has been reached, this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
As with our investigators assessment, Im only considering the issues covered in the 
second final response letter. That is, the impact of the delays in accepting and settling 
the claim between May 2022 and November 2022.
Aviva initially disputed that it had caused any unreasonable delays. But following our 
investigators assessment it accepted it could have reached its claim decision more quickly. 
In her assessment, our investigator considered the timeline Aviva provided and explained 
that it (or its agents) had all the information necessary to reach a decision on the claim by 
June 2022, yet it didnt do so until November 2022. She said this was due to delays in Aviva 
considering its loss adjusters report, confirming its acceptance of the claim and considering 
Mr Hs quote for reinstatement. Based on this, she concluded that Aviva was responsible for 
around five months worth of unnecessary and unreasonable delays. Having considered the 
timeline provided by Aviva, I agree with our investigators conclusions here.
Mr H says he had to spend a significant amount of time chasing Aviva, which caused him 
distress and inconvenience. I fully accept that needing to chase an insurer for updates on a 
claim would be frustrating. But some level of distress and inconvenience is to be expected in 
claims like this one, and that isnt necessarily the fault of the insurer. I also need to consider 
that neither Mr H, nor the managing agent for the building, appears to have contacted or 
chased Aviva from June 2022 onward. So, when considering a fair amount of compensation, 
Im only considering the impact of the delays which Aviva is solely responsible for. 
Taking everything into account, I agree with our investigator that Aviva should pay Mr H 
£250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience its delays and communication 
issues caused him.
In terms of Mr Hs claim for loss of rental income, he has argued that despite the policy not 
providing this type of cover, Avivas unreasonable delays have directly led to this loss. So, in 
these circumstances, he says Aviva should reimburse his losses.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Hs position here. And if I were persuaded that Avivas delays 
had led directly to a loss of rental income, Id be minded to direct it to cover said losses 
despite the lack of policy coverage, on a fair and reasonable basis. But in this case, Im not 
persuaded that Avivas delays are the sole reason that Mr H lost out on rental income. 
I say this because Mr Hs property had not been let to tenants since July 2021, which means 
the claim and subsequent delays were not the reason that it was empty. Ive also seen no 
evidence from Mr H that he was in the process of seeking new tenants, or that the claim 
delays impacted or prevented an actual prospective tenant from taking up a tenancy. 
In these circumstances, where there is no persuasive evidence of an actual loss of rental 
income caused directly by Avivas actions, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me 
to direct Aviva to make a payment, outside the policy terms, based solely on Mr Hs 
assertion that he would have placed a tenant. So, I dont uphold this part of Mr Hs 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Mr H £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him  if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman