DRN-3198180
The complaint
Mr M complains that Extracover Limited trading as Zego mishandled a taxi insurance policy. 
  
What happened
Mr M was a taxi driver. For the year from 23 January 2020, he had his vehicle insured
through Zego. Mr M wanted to pay by instalments. He entered into a credit agreement with a
finance company. His payments were due on the 23rd day of each month.
From March 2020, Mr M had little or no work because of Covid-19. From 23 March 2020, he
contacted Zego to ask to defer his payments. With effect from 30 June 2020, the policy was
cancelled.
About a year later, in June 2021, Mr M complained to Zego that it hadnt responded fairly to
his requests for deferral of payment.
By a final response dated late June 2021, Zego upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. But it said
the policy wouldve cost about £4,877.00 for the year from 23 January 2020 and that after
the cancellation from 30 June 2020, he still owed about £1,880.00. It offered to deduct
£50.00 compensation. Mr M brought his complaint to us immediately.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that:
The time Zego had charged Mr M for his time on risk was incorrect. Zego calculated 
the premiums from 23 January 2020 to 30 June 2020. The first time Mr M asked for 
the policy to be cancelled was via email on 3 June 2020. As a result, it was only fair 
that the amounts owed should be worked out from 23 January 2020 to 3 June 2020.
The compensation amount of £50.00 for the service he received was unfair. A 
number of errors Zego made caused Mr M distress and inconvenience.
The investigator recommended that Zego should pay Mr M £200 compensation for:
being passed to numerous wrong departments;
being told he would receive a call back on numerous occasions, which didnt happen;
having to call Zego on numerous occasions chasing an update;
having to send emails chasing call backs and updates.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M  
and to Zego on 17 November 2021. I summarise my findings:
Zego acted as an intermediary between Mr M and his insurer.
Mr Ms email of 3 June 2020 wasnt a clear request to cancel the policy. So I didnt 
agree with the investigator that Zego shouldve initiated cancellation with effect from 
3 June 2020.
Mr M had fallen well short of showing that Zego caused the debt to be higher than it 
otherwise wouldve been.
In any event, I didnt consider that Zegos role extended to setting the charge for time 
on cover. That was a matter for the insurer.
Mr M was significantly distressed about the cost of insurance and his inability to pay 
it. I accepted that the shortcomings in Zegos communication caused him extra 
distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time for him. 
I didnt think £50.00 was enough to put that right. I agreed with the investigator that a 
total of £200.00 is fair compensation.
Subject to any further information from Mr M or from Zego, my provisional decision was that I 
upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Extracover Limited trading as Zego to pay 
or to credit Mr M  in addition to the £50.00 it has already offered  a further £150.00 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Zego accepted the provisional decision.
Mr M disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
He was earning nothing because of the virus. So he told them he wanted to cancel 
his insurance. They said they said they won't charge him for 3 months and if he still 
wanted to cancel, he could.
 When he tried calling back before the 3 months, nobody would help him.
Then after the 3 months they finally answered his call. He explained that he was 
trying to call to cancel but nobody would call him back. They said that a manger 
would call him back, but they never did. 
This situation put him in a lot of stress and messed up his health.
He had to retire from taxis because of the virus. They are taking advantage of him. 
He understands paying exit fee but charging him for something they promised he 
would be changed for is wrong. Purposely avoiding his call to make a bigger bill is 
also wrong.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In particular, Ive reviewed call recordings, file notes and emails.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against a regulated
financial firm about a regulated financial activity. In our final decision, we name that firm, but
we dont identify any other party.
Zegos policy booklet contained a welcome section including the following:
Although youve bought this insurance policy from Zego, it is actually underwritten
by our friends at [insurance company based in a European Union country]. That
means that it is [that insurance company] who will receive the premium that you pay
(minus the sums that theyve agreed to pay us for our services), and who ultimately
will be responsible for paying any claims. However, your day to day contact under
the policy will always be with us
From that, I find that Zego acted as an intermediary between Mr M and his insurer.
On 23 March 2020, it was too late to stop the payment due that day. But Zego didnt deal
properly with Mr Ms call. It passed him around and gave incorrect information about who
deals with deferrals.
On 8 April 2020 Mr M called Zego again. He hadnt made the payment due in March. He
said he wouldnt pay it unless he knew for certain that Aprils payment would be deferred 
which it was.
On 11 May 2020, Mr M emailed Zego to say he wouldnt be able to make the payment for
23 May.
On 26 May 2020 , he also called to ask if Zego could defer the payment for another month.
Zego said it wouldnt defer any more. Zego gave Mr M the option to downgrade his cover to
social, domestic and pleasure (SD&P). 
Mr M then asked about cancelling the policy. But Mr M didnt give instructions to Zego for a 
downgrading or cancellation of the policy. Rather he asked to speak to a manager. And 
Zego didnt call him back in the next few days as it shouldve done.
On 3 June 2020, Mr M sent an email that concluded as follows:
My father and cousin got taxi insurance and there company have put there
insurance to social and demstic so its affordable to pay as the is no work for us taxi
driver. Either do the same for cancel my insurance
From that, I find that Mr Ms preference was for the policy to continue but to be downgraded
from taxi cover to SD&P. Failing that he wanted the policy cancelled.
On 10 June 2020, Zego called Mr M  to chase the outstanding payments. A supervisor was
meant to call him back but didnt.
Ive thought about Zegos role and the service it gave. I consider that its role included
communicating effectively with Mr M and, where appropriate, referring him to the insurer or
to the finance company.
Zego shouldve dealt better with Mr M when he got in touch. And I can see how  looking
back  Mr M considers that Zego deliberately caused delay and an increase in the debt he
has been asked to pay.But a deferral of payment doesnt mean that the payment never has to be made.
And Mr Ms email of 3 June 2020 wasnt a clear request to cancel the policy. So I dont agree
with the investigator that Zego shouldve initiated cancellation with effect from 3 June 2020.
I find that Mr M has fallen well short of showing that Zego caused the debt to be higher than
it otherwise wouldve been.
In any event  keeping in mind the welcome section quoted above - I dont consider that
Zegos role extended to setting the charge for time on cover. That was a matter for the
insurer.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Zego to reduce the charge for the time on cover 
before 30 June 2020.
From the call recordings, I find that Mr M was significantly distressed about the cost of
insurance and his inability to pay it. He has got to the point of feeling desperate and unwell. 
There are a number of organisations that can help Mr M with those issues. Details of some 
of those organisations are on our website.
Putting things right
I accept that the shortcomings in Zegos communication caused him extra distress and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time for him. I dont think £50.00 was enough to put that 
right. I agree with the investigator that a total of £200.00 is fair compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Extracover Limited trading as Zego to pay or to credit Mr M  in addition to the £50.00 
it has already offered  a further £150.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman