DRN-1614573
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) didnt allow 
him to refinance the balloon payment due at the end of his hire purchase agreement. He 
also says the agreement was mis-sold. 
What happened
Mr L entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS in 2015 to acquire a new car. He 
traded in his previous vehicle as part of the transaction. He says he asked about what the 
value of the car at the end of the four-year agreement would be and was told there would be 
enough equity to put towards a deposit for a new car. He says he also asked about the 
mileage and was told that any excess charges would be covered by the equity in the car.
At the end of the agreement, Mr L wanted to keep the car and asked VWFS to refinance the 
balloon payment, but he was told he didnt meet its lending criteria. He said he hadnt missed 
any payments during the term of his agreement and there was no adverse information on his 
credit file. He discovered at this time that the car was worth less than the balloon payment. 
Mr L says VWFS said he could return the car, but he would have to pay the excess mileage 
charges. He wants these charges waived.
VWFS says that any decision to refinance a balloon payment is subject to approval by its 
underwriters. It says a credit risk check was undertaken and Mr L didnt meet its criteria. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that he didnt have enough evidence to 
say that a misrepresentation had taken place and that VWFS werent required to allow Mr L 
to refinance the balloon payment. He said that as Mr L returned the car he had to pay the 
excess mileage charges, and as these were part of the agreement he couldnt ask for them 
to be waived.
 
Mr L didnt accept our investigators view. He said that he wasnt told the mileage limit was 
8,000 miles per year and had he known he wouldnt have accepted this. He said he was told 
any excess charges at the end of the agreement would be covered by the equity in the car 
and that this was his second agreement with VWFS and he didnt have excess charges at 
the end of the first agreement. He didnt believe VWFS had treated him fairly by not allowing 
him to refinance the balloon payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr L wanted to refinance the balloon payment due at the end of his agreement. I 
appreciate the comments he has made about his payment history, credit file and the 
payments due. However, before providing any new lending to Mr L we would expect 
VWFS to carry out reasonable checks. In this case it has explained that Mr Ls 
request was assessed by its underwriters and a credit check was carried out. We 
wouldnt expect the details of the credit assessment to be provided as this is 
commercially sensitive information to VWFS, but it has provided evidence to show 
that checks took place and that Mr L didnt meet its lending criteria. Based on this I 
cannot say that VWFS did anything wrong by not agreeing to refinance Mr Ls 
balloon payment.
Mr L says that he discussed the value of the car when he entered into the agreement 
and was told there would be equity in the car at the end of the agreement. I cannot 
say what was discussed when the agreement was entered into, but many factors can 
affect the value of a car. Given the agreement had a four-year term I find any 
comments about the value of the car at the end of the agreement would need to be 
considered estimates and subject to variation. So, while I note Mr Ls comments 
about this, without further evidence to show that Mr L was given any guarantee of the 
value of the car at the end of four years I do not find that I have enough to say that a 
misrepresentation occurred.
Mr L signed a pre-contract checklist confirming he understood the terms of the 
agreement. The agreement Mr L signed contained the relevant financial details and 
the mileage allowance and excess mileage charges. Mr L has said he discussed the 
mileage at the point of supply which suggests he was aware that charges could arise.
Mr L has said he was told any charges at the end of the agreement would be covered 
by the equity in the car. However, as I have set out above, I do not find that I have 
enough evidence to say that a misrepresentation occurred. As the agreement clearly 
set out the mileage allowance and excess charges, I do not require VWFS to waive 
the excess mileage charges as Mr L has requested.
Mr L says that this agreement was his second with VWFS and he wasnt charged 
excess mileage on exiting the first agreement. He thought the mileage allowance 
may have been reduced on this second agreement. I have looked at the first 
agreement and this also had an 8,000 mileage limit and so no reduction in the limit 
was made. VWFS has explained that Mr L part exchanged the vehicle that was 
subject to the previous agreement and so excess mileage wouldnt have been 
charged, instead this would have been reflected in the negotiation and part exchange 
value.
While I understand why Mr L is upset that his refinancing request was declined, as he didnt 
meet VWFS lending criteria I cannot say VWFS did anything wrong in this case. I also do 
not find I have enough to say that the car was mis-sold and because the information in the 
agreement set out the terms regarding the mileage I do not find I can uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman