DRN-3748330
The complaint
Mr R is complaining, as the executor for the estate of Mr M, that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
wont refund card payments which he says were carried out fraudulently on the late Mr Ms 
account.
What happened
Mr R says a family member, who Ill refer to as G, used the late Mr Ms card to complete 
card transactions on his account fraudulently.
Mr R says in 2016, the late Mr M was diagnosed with dementia. He says Lloyds were made 
aware of this diagnosis by the late Mr Ms wife. Sadly, in January 2019, the late Mr Ms wife 
passed away.  In February 2020, due to a stroke, the late Mr M was admitted to hospital, 
following which he was released into the care of a nursing home. In November 2021, sadly 
Mr M passed away. 
As the executor of the late Mr Ms estate, Mr R received bank statements for the account. He 
noticed card transactions which he says G completed fraudulently between January 2020 
and January 2021. Mr R has highlighted 17 transactions, which total just over £4,500.
Mr R called Lloyds in January 2022 and February 2022, to report the fraudulent activity on 
the late Mr Ms account. This included the disputed transactions (referred to above) and a 
faster payment of £25,000  which isnt being considered as part of this complaint.
As part of Mr Rs complaint to Lloyds he said:
Hed notified Lloyds in January 2020 that the late Mr M had had a stroke and lost his 
debit card. Mr R asked Lloyds to cancel the lost card, however the card was left 
active which allowed its fraudulent use by G.
The late Mr M couldnt have authorised or made any payments post January 2020, 
when he had his stroke.
The transactions completed by G couldnt have been for the late Mr M, as he had no 
food costs and didnt need money after he moved into the nursing home in February 
2020.
The late Mr M had resided with Mr R prior to his hospitalisation.
Lloyds responded to Mr R in March 2022, declining to refund the disputed card transactions. 
They told Mr R that the late Mr M had told them he wished G to assist with his account and 
there was no evidence that the late Mr M hadnt authorised the transactions. Lloyds told     
Mr R that this was a civil matter, best pursued through legal channels or the police.
Mr R was unhappy with Lloyds response, and after contacting them again, Lloyds issued a 
further response to Mr R in August 2022. 
In this response, Lloyds confirmed their position hadnt changed and they wouldnt refund 
the disputed card transactions as there was no evidence that the transactions were 
fraudulent. However, Lloyds apologised to Mr R for not providing a better level of service.  
Mr R had complained that he didnt receive the letter from Lloyds in March 2022, but Lloyds 
confirmed that it was sent to the correct address. However, Lloyds accepted they mightve 
caused confusion by not telling Mr R their response had been sent, when he called them the 
day after it was issued. As a result, Lloyds offered Mr R £100 in compensation.
Mr R wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so he brought a complaint to our service on behalf 
of the estate.
An investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt uphold it. Ultimately, they thought it 
was most likely that the disputed card transactions had been carried out by someone the late 
Mr M had authorised to use his card. The investigator explained this was supported by the 
late Mr M telling Lloyds that he wanted G to assist him with his account, asking for cards to 
be sent to Gs address and asking the branch to contact G if there were any issues. The 
investigator added that the spending pattern didnt match what wed usually see in the case 
of fraud, as the transactions were for low value and left over £20,000 in the late Mr Ms 
account.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion, raising the following points:
Lloyds shouldnt have allowed someone to have a card for their own use on the late 
Mr Ms account.
The late Mr M didnt have capacity when going into the branch with G, which Mr R 
says G confirmed in text messages to him.
Lloyds have breached their own Terms and Conditions, as the late Mr Ms card was 
not transferable and no one else was allowed to use it under their Terms and 
Conditions.
Lloyds were aware as early as 2016 that the late Mr M was unwell. In 2020, Mr R 
says they wouldve become aware that hed lost his speech and had physical 
limitations.
Lloyds shouldve stopped the late Mr Ms card when Mr R contacted them in January 
2020 as a precaution.
The card transactions were suspicious and shouldve concerned Lloyds, as some 
were done on either side of midnight.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
In this case, we dont have testimony from G or the late Mr M, however we do have Lloyds 
recorded notes from their contact with the late Mr M as well as Mr Rs testimony. Should Lloyds refund the transactions Mr R is disputing?
Generally, Lloyds can hold the late Mr M liable for the disputed transactions, if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that he made or authorised the transactions himself. Based 
on everything Ive seen Im satisfied that its most likely the late Mr M did authorise these 
transactions for the following reasons:
In August 2019, the late Mr M contacted Lloyds and asked them to refer to G if there 
were any issues with his account.
In September 2019, the late Mr M updated his address and contact details to those of 
G.
Also in September 2019, Lloyds received contact from a firm of solicitors acting on 
the late Mr Ms behalf, providing a Deed of Revocation withdrawing Mr R as Mr Ms 
sole attorney. Although its worth noting that Lloyds have no record of receiving or 
registering a Power of Attorney for Mr R on the late Mr Ms accounts.
The first transaction that Mr R is disputing was made in February 2020, and the last 
transaction was made in December 2020. There were no disputed transactions made 
between May 2020 and August 2020. There were 17 transactions highlighted, which 
total just over £4,500. None of the transactions was for over £200, other than one 
transaction of £2,400. The transactions were in line with the usual spending on the 
late Mr Ms account prior to the disputed transactions occurring and throughout the 
period of the disputed transactions the late Mr Ms account maintained a balance of 
between £20,000 and £34,000. The pattern of the transactions, the gap between 
transactions, the size of the transactions and the fact that the account balance wasnt 
drained  isnt in line with what I would expect if someone was fraudulently accessing 
the account.
During the period of the disputed transactions in April 2020, a payment was made 
with the late Mr Ms card to his nursing home  which Mr R believes to be a genuine 
transaction.
Having carefully considered everything, I think its most likely that these transactions were 
carried out with the authorisation and consent of the late Mr M. The contact he had with 
Lloyds suggests that he wanted G to have access to his accounts, although I accept he 
didnt make her a signatory on his account. 
As I explained above, I only have to reach a decision based on the balance of probabilities. 
And based on the information I do have, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the 
late Mr M authorised these transactions  most likely by giving his card to someone else to 
use. On that basis, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund them.
Mr R raised a concern about Lloyds breaching their Terms and Conditions in allowing 
someone other than the late Mr M to use his card. However, the Terms and Conditions of  
Mr Ms account puts the responsibility on him not to share his card or security details with 
anyone. Where he does, Lloyds would be entitled to consider the transactions completed as 
authorised by him. So, while the late Mr Ms card was not transferable, that doesnt make 
Lloyds liable to refund the late Mr M where he has given his card to someone else to use. 
Also, for the reasons given above, specifically the size of the transactions, the period of time 
over which they were completed and that they fit with the usual spending pattern on the late 
Mr Ms account  Im not satisfied that the transactions shouldve flagged with Lloyds as 
suspicious, unusual or a potential indicator of the late Mr M being at risk of financial harm.Is there any other reason that Lloyds should be held liable for refunding the transactions?
Mr R has raised concerns about Lloyds being aware the late Mr M didnt have capacity to 
authorise anyone to use his account. However, having reviewed the contact notes Lloyds 
hold for their interactions with him, I havent seen anything that suggests they had concerns 
about his capacity to operate his account. 
Mr R says that the late Mr Ms wife told Lloyds about his dementia diagnosis in 2016, but I 
havent seen evidence of that. Also, in Mr Rs testimony he has told us that in 2016, the late 
Mr M had good days and bad days. So, Im not persuaded that Lloyds shouldve have 
concerns about the late Mr Ms capacity in 2016.
Mr R is also concerned that Lloyds didnt stop the late Mr Ms card in January 2020, when  
Mr R reported it lost. However, in January 2020, Mr R was not authorised on the late Mr Ms 
account. And the most recent contact Lloyds had with the late Mr M was in the prior 
August/September, when he told them that G was to be contacted if they had any issues. 
Which was followed by Lloyds receiving the Revocation Deed revoking a Power of Attorney 
Mr R had for dealing with the late Mr Ms affairs. So, Im not satisfied that Lloyds acted 
unreasonably, in not acting on Mr Rs request to cancel the card. 
I also think its most likely that if Lloyds had contacted the late Mr M or G, that the 
instructions they wouldve received wouldve been different to Mr Rs, based on the card 
being used in the following months on the late Mr Ms account. I do note though, that there 
isnt any evidence Lloyds did contact the late Mr M or G in January 2020, Ive only 
addressed this as I dont think it would make a difference to the outcome if they had.
The level of service Mr R received
Lloyds have accepted that they didnt provide Mr R with the service he shouldve received 
and offered him £100 in compensation. While Mr R has declined this offer, Lloyds have 
confirmed the offer is still available to him if he wants to accept it. Based on all the 
circumstances of this case, I think their offer is fair.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R and realise this isnt the outcome he wanted, but I cant fairly 
ask Lloyds to refund the disputed card transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman