DRN-1879427
The complaint
Mr B complains that UIA (Insurance) Ltd (UIA) was wrong to reject a claim under 
his home insurance policy following a water leak .
What happened
In July 2019, Mr B suffered a flooding incident at his home when he accidently left a 
kitchen tap on for several minutes with the plug in the sink. The sink overflowed and 
caused flooding which extended through the kitchen and into the lounge. It resulted 
in significant damage to the laminated flooring in the lounge. Mr B reported the 
incident to UIA in September 2019 when the laminated flooring started to lift up. UIA 
paid out £1,001.89 in relation to this claim both for the damage and electrical costs of 
drying out the lounge.
Following this incident, UIAs appointed surveyor visited the property in January 
2020 and reported that the kitchen remained very damp and noticed that there was 
water on the kitchen floor. After further investigation, he found that there was an 
ongoing leak from the stop-cock valve which had been located behind the washing 
machine. 
Mr B made a claim on his home insurance policy as he considered that this leak had 
caused damage and damp in his kitchen. In its final response letter, UIA stated that; 
It is clear from the photographs that were taken during the surveyors visit that there 
are on-going maintenance issues at the property and the damage is not related to a 
one off escape of water and the policy does not cover for general maintenance, 
wear and tear or for damage as a result of a gradually operating cause.
The Ombudsmans Investigator considered all relevant documents and came to the 
view that; the evidence suggests damage in your kitchen has happened gradually 
over a long period of time and isnt from a one-off leak. I cant be sure when this leak 
actually happened so I dont think it would be fair to hold your insurer responsible to 
pay out for this second claim as your policy doesnt cover that.
Mr B did not accept this view and remained dissatisfied. He did not feel that UIA had 
handled his claim well. The matter was therefore passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue I need to decide is whether UIA was entitled to decline Mr Bs claim and 
whether thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ill first 
address the cover Mr Bs policy provides in relation to his home.
Mr Bs insurance policy covered his home for accidental damage arising from certain 
risks such as flood and escape of water from any fixed domestic water installation. 
Accidental damage is defined as; Any damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly 
by external means, which is not deliberate and is not specifically excluded under the 
terms of this policy.
The policy has a standard clause which states that the policyholder must take all 
reasonable precautions to prevent loss, damage or accidents and to mitigate any 
loss or damage which does occur and to keep buildings in good repair. 
The terms and conditions of the policy on page 79 and 80, then explain that the 
policy holder is not covered in the following circumstances;
Maintenance, Gradually operating causes and pre-inception losses
Any costs relating to maintenance and normal redecoration
Any loss or damage, liability or injury that happened before the first period of
insurance
Any loss or damage arising from wear and tear or any other gradually operating 
cause
I know that the policy document is lengthy, however the relevant paragraphs have 
been set out in a transparent manner in the document under clear headings. 
In circumstances where the background facts are disputed, we have to look at the 
available evidence. UIA say that damage to Mr Bs kitchen did not occur as a result 
of a matter covered by his policy. Mr B thinks that it did and that he could not 
reasonably know about the stop-tap leak as it was hidden behind his washing 
machine.
The surveyor who attended Mr Bs property in the autumn of 2019, following Mr Bs 
reporting of the sink overflow incident which affected the lounge, also noted 
substantial damage to the kitchen walls, skirting boards and kitchen units. UIA 
considered that they were affected by a gradually operating cause and would have 
been clearly visible to Mr B.
Following remedial works to the lounge following the first incident, the contractor 
came to check the position in January 2020 and reported that the kitchen was in a 
poor state and had historical damp issues. He was concerned that there was another 
leak and therefore investigated the matter.
He then found a leak from the stop-tap and he advised Mr B to get it fixed as soon as 
possible. The contractor thought that the leak had been going on for a long time. Mr B referred to it as a rapid drip and conceded that the leak would have been active 
for a period of at least three months.
A plumber was then called on 5 January 2020 and fixed the stop-tap leak.
Mr B was candid in acknowledging inherent historical damp problems at the 
property. He supplied a copy of his home buyers report from June 2011 which 
included property condition ratings graded 1 to 3. The walls and built-in kitchen 
fittings were graded 2 which meant that work was required.
Condition rating 2 was defined as; Defects that need repairing or replacing but are 
not considered to be either serious or urgent. The property must be maintained in the 
normal way. It identified that the kitchen units were somewhat dated and needed 
modernization.
It identified a risk to the building that the main walls were damp and advised as 
follows; We recorded high damp meter readings which have been caused by the 
failure of the damp-proof course and a more detailed investigation is necessary and 
recommended this before you commit to purchase.
Mr B also obtained his own report and quote for damp proofing in December 2019. It 
was headed Report concerning Structural Damp and commenced as follows; Due 
to lack of effective damp proof course rising damp exists and if left will continue 
to absorb atmospheric moisture. The floor levels are falling from back of the property 
to front with steps at each opening. This has the effect of allowing water to travel 
from the back to front of property, and where there are no skirting boards the 
dampness can be seen on these upstands and water has badly damaged the base 
of the kitchen units which are damaged to the point of not being able to be re-fitted. 
The front room floor is suffering from ground heave which has cracked the floor and 
water may well be coming up to the surface through these cracks.
Two months later the preservation surveyor wrote to UIA as follows regarding the 
policy holder; He does have a problem with rising damp, but this is not likely to 
affect the kitchen units, as the backs of kitchen units do not touch the wall..
We have been in this trade for forty three years and can say that it does not affect 
kitchen units to the point where they are severely damaged at the bottoms and away 
from the rear wall. 
Finally, the contractor appointed by UIA produced an Insurance Report on 6 January 
2020 following their detailed input. They also noted the sloping nature of the site and 
the fact that; The whole block of houses appears to be in a dip in the ground. They 
also reported that the kitchen and lounge had tested wet. Their initial findings were 
that; Damage to the lounge floor covering is consistent with a sudden short term 
flood. Damage to wall bases, skirtings and kitchen base units is consistent with older 
or larger floods or escapes of water.
Following their work at the property, the contractors reported that; Moisture levels 
seem far too high to have been caused solely by a 10 minute leak months ago and 
that; there is some question over which bits of water damage on site could 
reasonably be attributed to the sink overtopping.Ive noted that the photographs taken both by UIAs surveyor and Mr B, all show 
evidence of significant damp problems. Rotten bases to kitchen units, staining and 
damage to walls and skirting boards are clearly visible. It is also clear that the 
damage and deterioration to the kitchen units has taken place over a long period of 
time and hasnt been caused by a one-off accident or sudden leak from the stop tap. 
In my view, its more likely to have been caused by the inherent damp issues at the 
property. 
Even if the damage had been made worse by the stop-tap leak, both this type of leak 
as well as inherent damp issues were gradually operating causes and clearly 
excluded by Mr Bs policy.
Mr B was aware of significant underlying problems at the property since he 
purchased it in 2011 and this is no doubt why he called in a preservation firm which 
confirmed that there was a damp issue at the property. 
It was also initially the view of Mr Bs preservation/damp proofing expert that the flow 
of water from the back to the front of the property caused the damage to kitchen 
units and although he later discounted it being caused by rising damp, he did not 
clarify the apparent contradiction and his previous assessment in relation to the 
issue of flow of water.
I agree with the Investigator that its more likely than not that this damage is related to 
those inherent structural and damp issues and there has no doubt been further 
deterioration over the past 9/10 years as they had not been addressed and remedied 
at that time.
I appreciate that Mr B says that he didnt know about the stop-tap leak so he thinks 
that the gradual damage exclusion should not apply. Im afraid I do not agree that his 
lack of knowledge about the leak makes any difference however, because Ive 
already decided that the leak was not the cause of the underlying damage and damp 
in the kitchen.
 
We sometimes decide that its unfair for an insurer to rely on a gradual damage 
exclusion if the consumer couldnt reasonably have known the escape of water was 
happening and if they did something about it as soon as they could. In this case 
however, even if the leak had been the cause of the damage in the kitchen, I think it 
would have been reasonable for Mr B to have arranged to check behind the washing 
machine for any obvious on-going leaks. 
Ive also looked at the available evidence as to the way Mr B was treated by UIA and 
from everything I have seen, I consider that he was treated fairly, reasonably and 
with courtesy by UIA.
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr B, but I dont think the damage was covered 
by his policy and so I think it was fair and reasonable for UIA to decline his claim in 
this instance.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman