DRN-3618687
The complaint
Mrs H complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unreasonably delayed 
her income protection claim. 
What happened
Mrs H holds an income protection policy with L&G. She became unwell during 2017, and 
reduced her hours at work to part-time. And from February 2019, she was too ill to work at 
all. She described symptoms of pain, insomnia, hair loss and later heart problems. 
There were difficulties in Mrs H getting a diagnosis for her symptoms. And it wasnt until 
2020 that she was diagnosed with a rare tumour, and later underwent surgery. 
Mrs H said she waited until after her condition had been diagnosed to make a claim against 
her income protection policy. And the claim was submitted to L&G in January 2021. By July 
2021, L&G hadnt made a decision on Mrs Hs claim. She said she was struggling financially 
due to not receiving benefit payments from her policy, and she complained about the delays. 
L&G responded to the complaint in September 2021. It said it hadnt yet completed its 
assessment of the claim. And said there had been delays in receiving the evidence it had 
requested. However it acknowledged it too had caused unnecessary delays. And it offered 
£400 in compensation. 
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Mrs H brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator here looked into what had happened, and said they thought L&G had caused 
some unreasonable delays. But they thought the £400 it had offered was enough to put 
things right. 
L&G made no comment on the investigators view. However Mrs H disagreed. She said L&G 
had gone on to decline her claim, and had not contacted the correct medical professionals 
for evidence. 
Mrs H asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive considered the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say L&G has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
Having done so, I dont think L&G needs to do anything more than its already offered, and 
Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I must clarify that the complaint Ive looked into relates to the delays in L&G 
assessing the claim up until the point it issued a final response to Mrs Hs complaint in 
September 2021. Im aware L&G has since made a decision on the claim, and Mrs H has 
complained about this. However this is being treated as a separate complaint, so I wont 
comment any further on matters which have arisen since the point at which L&G issued its 
final response on this complaint. 
Our investigator has set out the details of the delays involved during L&Gs assessment of 
the claim up until the point it responded to Mrs Hs complaint in September 2021, so I wont 
repeat those here. 
Whilst claims of this nature can often take a significant amount of time to assess due to their 
complexity, having reviewed the events and timescales in this particular case, I think L&G 
could have done more to reduce the time taken. There were occasions when L&G failed to 
follow up requests it had made for information from third parties, delays reviewing 
information it received, and there was a delay in it making a referral to one of its own teams. 
L&G has accepted that it caused delays, and agreed it could have chased more frequently 
and kept Mrs H better updated. 
L&G offered £400 to recognised the distress and inconvenience caused Mrs H. And I think 
thats reasonable in these circumstances. I say that having thought about the failings L&G 
has recognised with its service, but also, that some of the delays were caused by third 
parties, which I cant hold L&G responsible for. Ive also considered the type of information 
L&G was seeking, and I dont think any of its requests for information were unreasonable. 
Mrs H questioned the relevance of contacting her GP. However its common for an insurer to 
contact a claimants GP for a copy of their medical records in relation to a claim of this type. 
So Im satisfied L&G didnt do anything wrong in requesting this information. 
Im aware Mrs H asked L&G if it would consider making an interim payment to her whilst her 
claim continued to be assessed. I can understand that this would have been beneficial to her 
due to her financial situation. However this wouldnt be usual practice, as an insurer would 
only be required to pay benefits on a valid claim, and at the point of the final response, the 
claim assessment was still ongoing. So I dont think its unreasonable that L&G didnt agree 
to this in its final response.
In addition, Mrs H said L&G didnt contact some of her treating medical professionals, and 
that it should have done so to obtain relevant evidence about her condition. However as 
L&G hadnt completed its assessment of the claim at the time it provided a response to Mrs 
Hs complaint, that isnt something I can look into. And as Ive stated above, Mrs H has 
raised a further complaint about the outcome of her claim, which is being handled 
separately.   
My final decision
I am aware that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has made an offer to pay 
£400. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my 
decision is that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should pay Mrs H £400, if it 
has not already done so. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman