DRN-1623116
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited hasnt fully settled a claim he made on his 
contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr As home was broken into. Amongst the items stolen was a collection of worldwide 
banknotes that Mr A had collected over a number of years. He made a theft claim on his 
contents insurance policy.
Tesco asked Mr A for information about the stolen banknotes. It originally offered Mr A 
settlement of around £5200 for his collection. But Mr A turned down this offer, because he 
said the value of the collection was around double this amount. 
So Tesco looked at the claim again and said the collection of banknotes couldnt be treated 
as a valuable item under the policy. It said the collection should be treated as money. Mr 
As policy has a money limit of £500. Tesco had already settled this amount though, as part 
of Mr As claim had been for stolen Euros and dollars, which didnt form part of the collection.
As it had already settled Mr As claim up to the money limit, it said there was nothing more to 
pay. It acknowledged Mr A shouldnt have been told his claim would be covered though, so it 
offered Mr A compensation of £150 to recognise its mistake.
Mr A wasnt happy with Tescos decision. He thought it should treat the banknote collection 
like a coin or stamp collection, which both fall within the valuables definition of the policy. 
This section has a higher limit. He was unhappy that Tesco had withdrawn its offer to pay his 
claim. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Tesco had treated Mr A fairly. She thought itd been entitled to 
withdraw its offer to pay the claim and itd awarded compensation for its error. But she did 
think it would be fair and reasonable for Tesco to treat Mr As collection as if it were a 
valuable item, rather than cash. She recommended that Tesco should reassess Mr As claim 
in line with the valuables limit, if Mr A was able to provide proof of ownership for a 
reasonable amount of the banknotes.
Tesco said itd been asking Mr A for proof of ownership throughout the claim. It was happy to 
consider anything more Mr A wanted to send it. It pointed out though that under the strict 
terms of the policy, the collection isnt a valuable item.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think it would be fair for 
Tesco to treat Mr As banknote collection as valuable and assess the claim in line with the 
valuables limit. Ill explain why.
Its clear from Tescos notes that Mr A was initially offered settlement for about half of his 
collection. I can understand why he was disappointed and frustrated when he then learned 
that Tesco were going to treat his collection as falling within the scope of the money 
definition of the policy. Especially as Tesco had already paid up to the money limit for Euro 
and dollar currency hed also claimed for.
But I dont think Tesco is bound by an offer it made early on in its claims process and has 
since withdrawn. After looking further into Mr As claim, it decided the claim should be dealt 
with under the money section of the policy. I think it was entitled to do so. But I do think that 
given its mistake and the distress and inconvenience this caused Mr A; it was appropriate for 
Tesco to offer him compensation. £150 feels fair to me to recognise its error and is broadly 
what Id have likely awarded Mr A if no offer had been made.
Ive then considered the policy terms. I agree that strictly, Mr As claim falls within the money 
definition. The definition includes cash and tokens with a cash value amongst other listed 
items. If I take a strict interpretation of Mr As collection  foreign and exotic banknotes  I 
think banknotes would be treated as cash, even if some of the notes were no longer legal 
tender.
But I dont think treating Mr As collection as money produces a fair and reasonable 
outcome. I can sometimes step away from a strict interpretation of a policy if I think it 
produces an unfair result. I think the fair outcome here would be for Tesco to deal with Mr 
As claim as if were a valuable item. The valuables definition includes stamp, coin or medal 
collections. 
In my view, Mr As banknote collection is more akin to a stamp or coin collection than cash. 
Thats because by his account, its been built up over a number of years. Some of the notes 
clearly have a reasonable re-sale value. And it doesnt seem as if Mr A intended to use the 
notes as tender  they formed part of a collection he kept a detailed note of. So I think it 
would be fair for Tesco to consider the claim as if the notes were valuables. This section has 
a significantly higher limit.
But I do think Tesco is entitled to be satisfied that Mr A owned the notes he claimed for and 
that they were worth broadly the amounts hes claimed. The claims conditions section of the 
policy explains that Tesco may ask for proof of ownership  like valuations or receipts - 
before it pays a claim. The claims notes show that Tesco asked its supplier to try and 
validate the claim, but itd been unable to do so. 
Like the investigator, I agree its reasonable for Tesco to require proof of ownership for a 
reasonable selection of the notes Mr As claimed for. Its open to Mr A to obtain this evidence 
and send it to Tesco to consider further. 
I appreciate Tesco feels its always offered to review any evidence Mr As sends to it. I dont 
think its final response letter makes this clear. This set out that the collection would be 
treated as money and that nothing further would be paid. I dont think Mr A wouldve known 
from this letter that he could continue to send in evidence for Tesco to look at.
Overall, Ive decided the fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint is for Tesco to 
reconsider Mr As claim for his banknote collection in line with the valuables limit and subject 
to the remaining policy terms, conditions and reasonable proof of ownership. It isnt for me to decide here what evidence Tesco might require. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint.
I direct Tesco Underwriting Limited to reassess Mr As claim in line with the valuables limit of 
the policy, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions, including reasonable proof 
of ownership.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman