DRN-3820414
The complaint
Ms O complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) have failed to refund over 
£6,700 she lost to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Ms O fell victim to an APP scam in June 2022. She was contacted by someone purporting to 
be from a recruitment agency offering a remote job at a company called Ecwid. She was told 
it was a marketing boosting platform that required people to simulate purchases and leave 
reviews. The scammer said she would have to send funds to an employment account in 
order to unlock missions for her to work through, and that money would be paid after she 
had completed 40 missions. Ms O made 13 payments to different individuals between 
25 June 2022 and 3 July 2022 totalling over £6,700. She realised she had been scammed 
when she was asked to deposit further funds and was unable to make any withdrawals. 
Natwest refused to refund the money Ms O had lost. Our investigator also didnt uphold the 
complaint. She considered whether Natwest ought to have refunded the money under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, which Natwest is signed up to, but didnt 
think it should have as Ms O had no reasonable basis for believing the transactions were 
legitimate. The investigator also didnt think the bank had to provide an effective warning as 
the payments would not have appeared unusual. Ms O disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Natwest should reimburse some or all of the money Ms O lost in line with the 
provisions of the CRM Code it has signed up to and whether it ought to have done 
more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
There is no dispute that Ms O has been the victim of a scam. She was tricked into 
making the payments thinking that she had to do this as part of her employment and 
in order to get paid. But this isnt enough in and of itself for Ms O to receive a refund 
of all the money she lost from her account.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, both the bank and its customer have 
obligations. If it can be shown that the customer has met their requisite level of care, 
then they will receive full reimbursement. If the customer has not done this, then it is 
for the firm to show that it has met its obligations under the Code. The most relevant 
obligation for the firm is to provide an Effective Warning. If a firm has not met its 
obligations then it, subject to any liability by the bank which received the money, will 
be liable for 50% of the customers loss.
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this case, I dont think Ms O had 
reasonable basis for believing the person/people she was paying were legitimate or 
part of an employment arrangement. She was contacted out of the blue on 
WhatsApp by someone purporting to be a recruiter from a well-known employment 
agency, which ought to have seemed odd given it was unsolicited. I appreciate Ms O 
says she researched Ecwid online. But it ought to have struck her as suspicious that 
she hadnt received any terms of employment or contract if it was truly a genuine 
employment opportunity. 
Ms Os representatives say she was told to make payments through Binance, but I 
cant see any evidence of payments being made to this company. All the payments 
she has disputed as part of this scam have been made to private individuals rather 
than cryptocurrency platforms. And the fact that she was also having to make any 
payments to private individuals before earning anything herself should have also 
alerted her that this may not have been a genuine employment opportunity. Overall, I 
think there was enough going on to have raised significant concerns about the 
transactions Ms O was making from the start, and I think further steps could and 
should have been taken in order for her to have a reasonable basis for believing 
everything was legitimate. Im therefore satisfied that Ms O didnt meet the required 
level of care under the CRM Code.
In terms of whether Natwest met its own standards, the CRM Code says that the 
bank are required to provide an effective warning only where it identifies an APP 
scam risk, which it should do by considering the normal transactional data of the 
account and customer behaviour. Natwest hasnt been able to show whether it 
provided an effective warning or not. However, in this instance, the faster payments 
Ms O made were for relatively low amounts (£30 - £1,800) which would not have 
appeared unusual when compared with her normal pattern of spending. I appreciate 
there were days where multiple payments were made. But these were all made to 
separate payees, so it would not have appeared particularly suspicious (compared to 
when multiple payments are made to the same payee, for example). Natwest 
wouldnt have been required to deliver an effective warning unless other risk factors 
were present, which I dont think they were here. So, Im not persuaded it has failed 
to meet the standards set under the CRM Code if it didnt provide an effective 
warning. 
Ive also considered whether Natwest did enough to try and recover the money after 
the fraud had been reported. Ms O didnt report the fraud directly to Natwest, and 
instead raised a complaint with her professional representative. However, I can see 
that Natwest has attempted to recover the funds after it was made aware of her fraud 
claim by reaching out to the beneficiary banks, where it said no funds remained. So, I 
dont think it could have done anything more to try and recover the funds in these 
circumstances.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms O. But I dont think she met her 
requisite level of care in line with the CRM Code, and Im not persuaded Natwest has failed 
to meet its own standards under the Code either. So, I dont think it has acted unreasonably 
by failing to offer a refund in these circumstances.  My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman