DRN-2360885
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Miss M also took extended PPI cover in 2004 when she applied for a further advance. 
Miss M says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ms 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Miss M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out in 2002 and again in 2004. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Miss Ms 
mortgage application form from 2002. There was a separate section for PPI  and 
customers could select one box to take PPI cover or an alternative one to decline it. On 
Miss Ms form the box requesting cover has been ticked and shes signed the form. 
Shes gone on to complete and sign a separate PPI application form as well as a direct 
debit mandate. Similar documents were also completed in 2004.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Miss Ms circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Miss M was eligible for the 
cover and although she likely had some existing means, I think she still had a need for 
cover. 
There was nothing about Miss Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Miss M says she had a few health issues some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended it. I say this because she experienced these problems several years 
before the sale and she hasnt told us she had any ongoing issues around the time of 
sale. I would add that the PPI only excluded cover if the health issues recurred during 
the first 24 months of cover. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the 
PPI out. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss M as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss M 
would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Miss M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman