DRN-2392379
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services(GB) Limited  trading as Alphera Financial Services (Alphera) was of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2016, Mrs J was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Alphera. The agreement was for £41,000 over four years; with 48 monthly repayments 
of £425, and an optional final repayment of £18,500.
Mrs J said she told the dealer who supplied the car that her annual mileage was roughly 
7,000 miles per year. The finance agreement was set at 10,000 miles.
Mrs J said the car had been in for numerous repairs to the exhaust system. She said the 
amber warning light for the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) first came on in May 2017. She 
said she did her own research and discovered she had to drive at 40mph for 20 minutes to 
clear the light. She said the light came on frequently, and when it did, either she or her 
husband always did the necessary drive cycle.
In September 2018, another warning light came on. She had to call out the manufacturers 
breakdown service. She said they told her it needed to go to the dealer because EGR 
insufficient flow detected.
On 5 October 2018 the dealer replaced the DPF, and the Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) 
cooler. The dealer said the DPF needed replacing because the EGR cooler was blocked. 
They said the DPF had failed to produce enough air flow causing a blockage.
On 23 October 2018 the pipe from the EGR cooler needed replaced. It looks like this was 
done at the same time as the cars 21,000-mile service.
In December 2018  Mrs Js car went into restricted mode after the DPF amber light came on. 
The dealer replaced the DPF and said the failure was due to Mrs Js driving style such as 
short journeys and/or low speeds casing the vehicle to not be able to perform automatic 
regeneration.
In June 2019 Mrs J called out the breakdown service because the engine management light 
came on. The technician said the fault code indicated a low flow through EGR valve. The 
car was taken to the dealer, and in July 2019 they said the EGR cooler filter was clogged, oil 
dilution, and soot in DPF was too high. The invoice showed the dealer replaced the low 
pressure EGR cooler.
Mrs J said she was happy for the car to be repaired as it was being done at no cost to her  
with the repair provided as a goodwill gesture by the dealer, or under warranty. She said she 
asked about a free extension to the warranty in August 2019. She said she was told by the 
manufacturer that these issues were not covered under warranty and the problems were her 
fault due to her low mileage. She said they told her to drive further to prevent the issue 
happening again.
She said when it became clear to her that the warranty wouldnt cover further repairs, she 
raised it with Alphera. She says she would have kept the car if shed been given a free 
extension to the warranty.
But when told this wouldnt be provided, by Alphera or the dealer, she asked about 
terminating the agreement as she felt the car wasnt satisfactory. She was given a 
settlement figure of £23,000. She sold the car for £21,000 and had to pay Alphera just under 
£2,000 to settle the agreement. Mrs J said she wouldnt have bought the car if shed known 
her low annual mileage would cause issues with the exhaust system. She says she feels like 
shes been mis-sold the car as it wasnt suitable for her annual mileage.
In their final response letter, Alphera said the car hadnt been mis-sold as the sales team 
wouldnt know what her day to day driving would be. They said there was no evidence to 
show this was discussed when the agreement was arranged.
Alphera said Mrs J may have set a low annual mileage as part of the agreement, but this 
didnt mean the sales team wouldve known that she would be using the car on short 
journeys, affecting the DPF. They said the information they had showed it was the short 
journeys that caused the DPF to fail and they werent aware of any other reasons.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Js complaint. She wasnt persuaded the issues experienced by 
Mrs J could be attributed purely to lower driving speeds, distances, and journey lengths like 
Alphera stated.
She also felt it was reasonable to expect a new car of this type to be free from even minor 
defects. She felt the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and Alphera should have allowed Mrs J 
to reject the vehicle when she raised her complaint in June 2019.
Alphera disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said customers should 
know whether or not their driving style suits the type of car theyre buying. They also said no 
fault was reported in the first six months and so this fell outside the timelines in the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
When thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I consider relevant law and regulations. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says, in summary, that under a 
contract to supply goods the supplier, Alphera in this case, has a responsibility to make sure 
the goods are of satisfactory quality and are fit for purpose. Satisfactory quality is what a 
reasonable person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
In this case, I would consider relevant factors to be, amongst others, the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, Ill consider that Mrs J acquired a brand new car that cost  
£34,000. I think a reasonable person would have high standards for the condition and 
performance of the car. And I think they would expect to have trouble free motoring for a 
reasonable amount of time.Ill focus on what I think are the key facts and issues here. Where I havent mentioned or 
gone into detail about a point raised by Mrs J or Alphera this isnt because I think its 
unimportant  this just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to reassure Alphera 
and Mrs J that Ive carefully considered all of the information and evidence on the case.
Alphera say there isnt anything wrong with the DPF system itself and the problems have 
been caused by Mrs J driving short distances and not allowing the system to regenerate. But 
I dont think its most likely this is the case. Ill explain why.
Mrs J told us how she used the car. She said the car was used daily to do the school run 
which was around two miles from her home. She said she also used the car three times a 
week to drive to work, around eight miles away. She said she used the car as the family car 
at the weekends, taking it on longer trips. 
Mrs J said she now knows these are not ideal journeys for a car equipped with a DPF. She 
said she discovered this when the amber warning light first came on after about six months. 
She said she researched this online, and found out she needed to drive the car above 40 
miles per hour for 20 minutes to clear the DPF. So whenever the DPF amber warning light 
came on, her husband used the car for his commute. This involved a journey of 38 miles 
each way.
Ive considered what the cars handbook says about driving distance and the DPF. This 
says:
Cleaning of the exhaust filter, also known as regeneration, occurs automatically, 
approximately every 300 to 900 km (185 to 560 miles) depending on driving 
conditions, and requires the engine to reach normal operating temperature.
The self-cleaning takes place when the vehicle is driven steadily at speeds between 
60 km/h to 112 km/h (40 mph to 70 mph). This process normally takes 10-20 
minutes. It is possible for self-cleaning to occur at lower vehicle speeds, but the 
process may take a little longer at a 50 km/h (30 mph) average speed.
Some driving conditions, e.g., frequently driving short distances, in slow-moving 
traffic, or in cold weather may not provide sufficient opportunity to begin the exhaust 
filter self-cleaning automatically. When this occurs, a warning icon is displayed in the 
message centre, depending on status, as follows:
Amber: Exhaust filter self-cleaning is required. Driving above 60 km/h (40 mph) 
for 20 minutes should clean the filter.
This is followed by a notes section with the following message:
Failure to follow the above driving approach to enable filter self-cleaning, may result 
in reduced vehicle performance. The amber exhaust filter icon is eventually replaced 
by a red exhaust filter icon, and the filter may need to be replaced
Mrs J has said that every time the warning light appeared, she completed the required drive 
cycle. On many occasions, this caused the amber warning light to disappear. She also says 
the car has failed without warning and this required the car to be returned to the dealer for 
repairs. These repairs included replacing the DPF and related parts.
I can see from the reports shes supplied that she had to call out the manufacturers 
breakdown service when the engine management light came on. And these call outs led to 
the DPF and EGR parts being replaced  so I find her testimony on this point persuasive.I think its clear from the manual that the DPF should self-clean if you follow the advice 
given. If you dont, a red warning light should be displayed, and the filter may need 
replacing. Ive no reason to doubt Mrs Js testimony about her driving style and usage of the 
car: shes been consistent and honest about the type of journeys she does. And I think the 
DPF would have failed more often if she hadnt been following the guidance in the 
handbook.
I think in this case its clear there were issues with the DPF in Mrs Js car. I say this as it 
required replacing when the car was less than two years old, and she continued to have 
problems after this date. Theres no dispute the car had faults. These were fixed on more 
than one occasion. Ive seen the invoices for the repairs, and Mrs J was not charged for 
them. They were either covered by the warranty, or the manufacturer paid for them as a 
gesture of goodwill. Either way, I find it unlikely that the manufacturer would pay for a repair, 
more than once, if they felt the fault was caused by the drivers style of driving.
In September 2018 Mrs J had to call out the manufacturers breakdown service because of a 
warning light. They told her shed need to take the car to the dealer because of an issue with 
EGR.
In October 2018 the dealer confirmed the fault was with the EGR cooler. They said there 
was a blockage in the EGR cooler caused by the DPF failing to produce sufficient air flow. 
So they said they had to replace the DPF.
And just two weeks later the EGR cooler pipe needed replacing. I note here that these two 
repairs were related to the DPF, but the reason given was not connected to Mrs Js driving 
style. And on these occasions Mrs J said the DPF warning light didnt appear as suggested 
in the handbook  so there was nothing she could do to prevent it failing.
In December 2018 the car was returned again to the dealer. On this occasion the car had 
gone into restricted performance  even though, according to the dealer notes  the DPF 
light was on amber: and according to the handbook this should require Mrs J to follow the 
instructions to regenerate. But here again, she didnt have that option. The dealer replaced 
the DPF. On this occasion they said the fault had been caused by short journeys and/or low 
speeds.
In June 2019, Mrs J called out the breakdown service. They reported the there was a low 
flow through the EGR valve. The technician said the average journey length and speed 
were too low to allow for the DPF regeneration. The car was returned to the dealer. They 
replaced the EGR cooler because it was clogged and there was too much soot in the DPF.
It appears to me that the repairs were necessary despite Mrs J following the instructions in 
the manufacturers owners handbook.
Considering all of this, Im satisfied there was an underlying fault with the DPF system. Mrs J 
says she drove the necessary distance to clear the DPF. I can see from the invoices that the 
DPF required replacing at 12,000 miles, at 13,000 miles and at 17,000 miles. I would expect 
the DPF to have failed sooner, and more frequently, if the issues were caused by Mrs Js 
driving style.
The CRA says that durability needs to be considered when thinking about satisfactory 
quality. Mrs Js car was brand new when she got it. I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect the DPF to need replacing in less than two years, and less than 12,000 miles, 
especially when Im satisfied its most likely the driver has followed the manufacturers 
instructions. So, Im satisfied the car wasnt durable. It follows that I dont think it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Alphera question why Mrs J raised this after two years. It appears to me that she allowed the 
dealer to repair the car, an appropriate remedy under the CRA. And she allowed further 
repairs when she may have been allowed to reject the car if shed argued the first repair 
hadnt worked.
She was happy for the car to be repaired as it was being done at no cost to her.  She says 
she would have kept the car if shed been given a free extension to the warranty.
But when told this wouldnt be provided, by Alphera or the dealer, she asked about 
terminating the agreement as the car wasnt satisfactory. I think that was a reasonable 
response, especially when she had the worry of the car breaking down, and facing 
potentially considerable repair costs whenever the DPF failed again.
And when given the settlement figure, she chose to sell the car, and pay the balance, as that 
was more favourable to her than a voluntary termination.
Putting things right
Ive explained above why I think Mrs Js car wasnt of satisfactory quality. So I think Mrs J 
shouldve been allowed to reject the car when she complained to Alphera in June 2019. I 
agree with our investigator that Alphera should pay Mrs J £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused by the repeated failures, the worry about being stranded if the car went into limp 
mode, and the multiple visits to the dealer. Mrs J asked that I consider the disruption over 
the months following the last repair. I assure her Ive done so, but feel the amount suggested 
is fair and reasonable.
Alphera should:
Refund £1,928.57 which is the difference between the amount Mrs J paid to settle 
the agreement and the amount Mrs J sold the vehicle for. 8% simple interest should 
also be applied from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the advance payment of £2,000 plus 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited  trading as Alphera Financial Services to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman