DRN-1640186
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the customer service she received from Nationwide Building Society 
when she tried to make a payment from abroad.
Mrs W is represented by her husband, Mr W.
What happened
Mrs W says was on holiday abroad when Mr W phoned her to say that she needed to 
transfer £3,000 to him immediately, so he could pass the money on to a builder. The builder 
was working on their property and had told Mr W that he would stop working on the property 
if he didnt receive the money. Mrs W wanted to make an online transfer from her Nationwide 
account to Mr Ws bank account to cover this, but she wasnt able to. She didnt have her 
Nationwide card reader with her. When she tried to transfer the money, she received an 
error message, and was told to contact Nationwide.
Mrs W phoned Nationwide as instructed. She complains it kept her on the phone for around 
an hour, despite her saying that she was abroad and needed the call to be quick, and it 
refused to transfer the money for her.
Nationwide told our investigator it can make an emergency transfer of money for customers 
over the phone, but only in exceptional circumstances. Thats set out in the relevant 
account terms and conditions. However, they will only transfer up to £500 at a time, and they 
will only do this up to three times in a rolling six- month period. All emergency transfers must 
go to a UK based current account, and transfers will only be made if certain criteria are met. 
These include customers stranded abroad with no access to internet banking and no other 
way of accessing their account, elderly or disabled customer unable to get to branch, 
hospitalised customers, and customers that have an urgent bill to pay which will affect their 
credit file. 
Nationwide recognised Mrs W was in an unfortunate and unexpected situation. However, it 
says Mrs W didn't meet the criteria, so thats why it acted as it did. 
Nationwide accepts the phone conversation with Mrs W couldve been handled better. Its 
not in dispute that Mrs W was given incorrect information on the phone about whether the 
number she was calling on was a free number, and about whether she needed her card 
reader to make some payments. Nationwide offered Mrs W £75 compensation to resolve the 
complaint, but Mrs W didnt accept this.
Our investigator looked into the matter. She understood why Mrs W was so unhappy about 
what happened. However, she said Mrs W hadnt met Nationwides criteria for making an 
emergency payment, so it didnt make a mistake when it refused to transfer the £3,000 for 
her on the phone. She thought the £75 compensation offered was a fair and reasonable 
amount to cover the long phone conversation, and the incorrect information she was given 
on the phone.
Mrs W disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She says 
the situation was an emergency as the builder was threatening to walk off site and leave her 
property in the middle of the build. It was a very stressful situation and she was in a 
vulnerable position. Mr W has also told us that it shouldnt be for Nationwide to define what 
an emergency is. He thinks Nationwides policy on this should be changed as he doesnt 
think its fit for purpose and in line with its obligation to treat its customers fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I also think the £75 Nationwide have offered Mrs W is a fair and reasonable 
amount to resolve this complaint. I appreciate that wont be the outcome Mrs W was hoping 
for.
Nationwide has accepted that the conversation it had with Mrs W when she phoned from 
abroad couldve been handled better. Theres no dispute that it went on for a long time, and 
that she was given incorrect information. So I understand why Mrs W was so annoyed by 
this. However, I think £75 is a fair and reasonable amount to cover the amount of time 
Mrs W was on this call, and the nature of the incorrect information she was given. It also 
covers any phone charges she wouldve incurred speaking to Nationwide for so long from 
abroad.
Mrs W remains unhappy that Nationwide didnt make the £3,000 transfer for her. The issue I 
need to decide is whether Nationwide made a mistake when it took this decision. 
I have no doubt that the situation Mrs W was in when she phoned Nationwide was a 
stressful one. She has told us that the money was needed urgently to stop their builder 
walking off site, and that the builder was attempting to strong arm her husband to make a 
payment.
However, the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws account are clear that payments (emergency 
payments) can only be made using telephone banking in exceptional circumstances. Mr W 
has argued that Mrs W was effectively in one of the positions covered by Nationwides 
criteria. He says Mrs W was in a vulnerable situation as she was abroad with no access to 
internet banking and no other way of accessing their account. I understand the point he is 
making. However, Im not persuaded she was in that position.
 
Mrs W was abroad with access to her Nationwide account. I say that as it appears, she had 
been able to log in online. The problem was that she wasnt able to make the payment she 
wanted to. I appreciate this was incredibly frustrating for her. However, Mrs W wasnt in what 
would generally be considered to be an emergency situation. She didnt say she was 
effectively stranded with no access to money. So I can understand why Nationwide acted in 
the way that it did.
I think it wouldve been helpful for Nationwide to have made the payment for Mrs W. 
However, for the reasons set out above I cant say that Nationwide was required to do this 
within the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws account. So I dont think Nationwide made a 
mistake when it didnt transfer the £3,000 for her. I appreciate that Mr W doesnt think it 
should be up to Nationwide to define what an emergency is, and that it should have 
transferred the money anyway. However, Nationwide is free to set its own policy for making 
payments for customers using telephone banking as long as that policy is in line with its legal 
and regulatory obligations. Nationwide was entitled to use its commercial judgement when 
applying that policy. Where a complaint is about the exercise by a building society of its commercial judgement 
(as it is here) my role is to decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and 
reasonably; it isnt to substitute my own judgement for that of Nationwide. 
Mr W thinks Nationwides policy on emergency payments should be changed as he doesnt 
think it is fit for purpose, and in line with its regulatory obligation to treat its customers fairly. I 
appreciate that Mr W concerned about this point. However, my role is to try to resolve this 
complaint. It isnt for me to act as a regulator and comment on Nationwides policies.
Taking the matter as a whole I think that Nationwides offer of £75 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. So I wont be asking it to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman