DRN-3286027
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as W has complained that QBE UK Limited wont pay the full 
amount of its loss assessor fees after it claimed on its business protection insurance policy. 
Ms T, a director of W, has complained on Ws behalf. 
What happened
W held a business protection insurance policy with QBE. It claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. QBE 
agreed to pay Ws claim following the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys test case. W let QBE know that it had appointed a loss assessor and intended to 
claim 7.5% (which equated to around £7,500 without VAT) of the claim value as the loss 
assessors fees.   
QBE said while the policy said they would pay up to 10% of a claim value in loss assessor 
fees, that was a limit and not an acceptance that a percentage based fee was acceptable in 
every claim. QBE said the 10% limit accounts for claims which require a much greater 
amount of preparation and presentation, but it doesnt always follow that a higher value claim 
will require more work than one for a lesser value. QBE also said that while the policy 
allowed time for certification and/or verification that doesnt include any negotiation of the 
claim. 
QBE didnt think a percentage based fee of this amount was reasonable or justifiable in the 
circumstances of Ws claim. They said they had provided an online calculator to support 
policyholders in demonstrating their losses and they would require the loss assessor to 
provide timesheets in order for W to claim for a time based fee. 
Unhappy with QBEs response, W brought its complaint to our service. It said loss assessors 
are always paid on a percentage basis and the costs it was asking QBE to pay were 
reasonable. The loss assessor firm said dealing with Ws claim was much more than just 
inputting numbers into the online calculator. 
QBE said the fees for this claim should equate to about 3-4 hours of loss assessor time. 
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he thought 
QBE had acted fairly and reasonably in refusing to pay the amount W wanted to claim in loss 
assessor fees. 
W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the policy sets out that a 
percentage based fee might appropriate and that the wording in the policy acted as an 
inducement to W entering into the contract. It said QBEs decision to refuse to pay the full 
costs was arbitrary and because they thought the costs were disproportionate to the claim 
value. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Insurance Schedule has a section for Claims Preparation Costs. Within this it says:
In respect of insured sections - A - Contents, C - Buildings and E - Business
interruption we will pay the reasonable and supportable costs incurred by you 
with our prior written consent, for the preparation, presentation, certification 
and/or verification of a specified claim provided that:

b) our liability under this clause shall not exceed 10% of a specified claim or 
£50,000.00, whichever is the lesser, in respect of any one claim or series of 
claims arising from a single occurrence or £100,000 in total in any one period of 
insurance
QBE said that the costs are required to be reasonable and supportable and given the 
circumstances of this claim they didnt think a percentage based fee of this amount was 
reasonable or supportable. 
I find QBEs response to be fair and reasonable. Its clear from the wording of the policy that 
QBE will pay up to 10% but the fees need to be reasonable, supportable and have QBEs 
written consent in advance. 
I think QBEs explanation that the policy is worded in this way as some claims will require a 
greater degree of work is reasonable. I also accept their point that a claim for a higher 
amount wouldnt automatically require double the amount of work as one for half its value. 
I think its reasonable that QBE pay costs that are proportionate to the time spent on the 
claim. I also think its reasonable for QBE to ask for information to establish the amount of 
work that the loss assessor has undertaken. I therefore dont think theyve made an arbitrary 
decision in refusing to pay the costs on a percentage basis. 
Ws loss assessor has said the work involved was much more detailed than inputting 
numbers into the online calculator and that it also had to correct a methodological mistake 
made by QBE. However, Ws loss assessor also said its fees arent based on the time spent 
on the claim. W said the costs includes the knowledge and experience of the loss assessor 
but I think an hourly rate would also take into account the value of a loss assessors 
knowledge and experience and so that doesnt persuade me that it would be reasonable for 
me to require QBE to pay £7,500 in loss assessor fees in this case. 
I can see that QBE let W know that it wouldnt agree to pay 7.5% of the costs when W 
asked. So, it was then for W to decide if it wanted to continue with the loss assessor it had 
appointed.
W said the wording acted as an inducement to it taking out the policy however I think the 
wording of the policy is clear that 10% is a limit and not an automatic entitlement to a 
percentage of costs. I also think its clear and that any costs need prior written consent. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome W was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I think QBE has acted fairly and reasonably. It follows that dont think I can fairly 
uphold Ws complaint.   My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman