DRN-3628679
The complaint
Miss T has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited regarding repair of her 
car which it undertook after she was involved in an accident.
What happened
Miss T had an accident in early October 2021. Advantage arranged to collect her car from 
the road  but there were delays and Miss T felt shed been lied to by Advantages 
representatives. The car wasnt repaired properly, Advantage insisted on inspecting it and 
further problems arose getting it to another garage for more work to be done. Miss Ts car 
was then returned to her in May 2022, but she felt there were still faults with it. Advantage 
agreed to view the car as a total loss and settle with Miss T for its market value. Miss T was 
happy with that, but not the value Advantage said it would pay. So Miss T complained.
During the course of Advantage trying to repair Miss Ts car it offered her £750 
compensation for the upset it accepted it had caused her. It also paid for fuel she had to 
purchase for the courtesy cars it had provided because Miss Ts car is electric and, by virtue 
of an arrangement she has, it costs her nothing to charge it. Advantage also paid Miss T 
£461 to allow her to get her car serviced  this was before the total loss agreement was 
reached. In respect of the total loss value  Advantages final offer to Miss T was £17,572 
But Miss T said that still wasnt enough  she owned her battery, rather than leasing it and 
couldnt find a similar, replacement car for less than £18,500. She also felt Advantage should 
pay her at least a further £500 compensation.
Our Investigator checked the trade guides for values for Miss Ts car and made enquiries 
with them about whether the values they generated were for battery leased or battery owned 
cars. Only one guide responded, the value it gave for Miss Ts car was £18,129. Our 
Investigator felt a fair settlement for Miss T would be for that value to be used to settle 
matters. Meaning Advantage owed Miss T a further £557. He felt it should also pay a 
further £100 compensation. But he noted Miss T had received £461 from Advantage to 
service her car which she hadnt used for that purpose due to the total loss agreement. He 
felt it was reasonable to off-set that sum against the total he felt Advantage owed Miss T 
(£657), meaning it should now pay her £196.
Advantage felt that it was unfair that we would uphold a complaint for such a small value. It 
also felt it was unfair to have discounted the value it had found of £17,572. It said if an 
amendment were made to its settlement, surely that should be the average of its value and 
the one our Investigator had found. 
Miss T said the £461 was given to her as a goodwill gesture, not as compensation. So if we 
deduct that sum then we are, effectively, reducing the compensation Advantage has paid. 
She didnt think that was fair. 
The complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T clearly had a difficult time following the accident in October. My background above is 
a very brief overview of what occurred, but I have read and understood everything that 
happened. I think its very clear that many aspects of her repair claim were not handled well 
by Advantage and it caused her a lot of distress and inconvenience over many months. So 
what started as a relatively simple repair in October 2021, and which should have resolved 
with Miss Ts repaired car being back with her in November 2021 at the latest, rumbled on 
with upset and inconvenience throughout until a negotiated agreement was reached in 
May 2021 to view the car as a total loss. I think a total of £850 compensation is fairly and 
reasonably due to Miss T to make up for the upset and inconvenience she was caused.
I know Miss T would like compensation in the region of £1,250. But, in my view, an award at 
that level would be unfair and unreasonable. If Miss Ts upset had continued over a longer 
period, then I might have felt an award like that was warranted. But given what Miss T has 
been through and the period she suffered over, Im satisfied that a total of £850 is fair and 
reasonable compensation. 
Turning to the settlement Advantage offered for Miss Ts car  I do think that needs 
increasing. This service will often use trade guides to determine what a fair and reasonable 
valuation is for a complainants car. And often we will use an average of the given values to 
compare to any sum offered by the insurer. But we wont always find it fair for an average to 
be used, and we will sometimes take into account the price of cars advertised for sale. 
Although we wont usually rely solely on advertised prices. 
Here one guide Advantage used was giving a value of £17,572. An average of that and the 
one returned by our Investigator would be £17,850.50. Miss T showed us sale prices for cars 
comparable to hers ranging from £18,295  £18,950, so an average of £18,622.50. It isnt 
unusual for cars to sell at a little less than their advertised price, but in the current market Im 
not satisfied Miss T could most likely replace her car for around £750 less than the average 
advertised price. So using the average of the two trade guide prices doesnt seem fair. But 
because the advertised price often isnt the value cars actually sell for, I equally cant say it 
would be fair to make Advantage pay the average sum of the sale prices. I think the fact that 
the price our Investigator returned is near the middle of those two averages indicates that it 
is most likely a fair and reasoble market value for Miss Ts car. So I think that £18,129 is the 
sum Advantage should pay Miss T for her car. That is an increase of its settlement of £557. 
So it is my view that Advantage should pay more compensation as well as an increased 
settlement sum. The total of those two additional amounts is £657 (£100 further 
compensation and £557 more in settlement of the car). And Advantage has said it has paid 
Miss T a sum of £461 previously. I understand that sum was paid as a goodwill gesture, so 
not compensation. But that it was paid specifically to allow Miss T to service her car. In the 
end Miss T did not service her car  the complaint moved on to Advantage settling for her 
car as a total loss. But Miss T did not return the £461 to Advantage. So she has the benefit 
of £461 of Advantages money which was paid to her for a specific purpose that it now cant 
be used for (as Miss T no longer has her car). It isnt fair for Miss T to benefit from this 
situation in that way. Its reasonable, in my view, for me to take that sum of £461 into 
account when I say what Advantage now fairly has to pay to settle Miss Ts complaint. 
I could say that Miss T must return the £461 to Advantage  seeing as the complaint moved 
on and Advantage looked to settle the matter in another way, that would put both parties 
back to where they should be. But, because the situation has moved on, I am now giving a final decision on it and setting out what the final redress is. And that involves a finding that 
Advantage owes Miss T further settlements; for her cars value and compensation, totalling 
£657. That is more than the £461 of Advantages money which Miss T already has in her 
pocket. So it makes sense to me to say the final sum for Advantage to pay Miss T to settle 
this matter is £196  being £657 less the £461 which Miss T already has.
Putting things right
I require Advantage to pay Miss T £196  this being the total I am satisfied it must now pay 
her, having found an increase to its compensation and total loss settlements was due 
(totalling £657), but bearing in mind some funds (£461) are already with Miss T.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman