DRN-3282008
The complaint
Miss R complains Topaz Finance Limited trading as Jasper Mortgages (Jasper) treated her 
unfairly after she missed payments on her buy-to-let mortgage. Shes unhappy it took 
possession of her property and decided to sell it without telling her; and it didnt make it clear 
what she needed to do to get control of the property again. She also complains The Law of 
Property Act 1925 (LPA) Receiver (LPAR) instructed by Jasper, removed her tenants so 
she no longer received rental income. Miss R says whats happened has impacted her 
health and caused her financial loss and severe upset and anxiety.
What happened
Miss R took out an interest only buy-to-let mortgage with Jasper around March 2008 for 
£83,426. The mortgage was initially taken out on a fixed rate of 6.39% until April 2011 at 
which point it was to move onto to the buy-to-let overseas variable rate.
In October 2017, Miss R was made bankrupt outside the United Kingdom (UK). Around 
February 2018, her mortgage account fell into arrears. Although around two months later, 
Miss R told Jasper shed pay what was outstanding, her UK bank was then closed, so 
Jasper was unable to take payment. It says it tried contacting Miss R and sent a demand for 
payment. But as nothing was received, in October 2018, it instructed an LPAR. In December 
2018, the LPAR suggested Jasper sell the property as there were concerns about a damp 
issue and a short lease. This was approved on 31 December 2018.
Miss R raised a complaint and asked Jasper to stand the LPAR down. In its final response, it 
said it would normally need customers to bring the balance to the position when they first got 
the mortgage. But instead it would consider standing the LPAR down if she explained how 
funds held by her letting agent would be paid to it; and how shed make future payments.
Miss Rs given us correspondence which she thinks shows she was doing what shed been 
asked. In March 2019, she told Jasper shed paid £1,800 to cover the arrears and further 
payments. This wasnt accepted as the payment was made by a third party as Miss R didnt 
have a bank account. So the tenants were evicted and the property was handed to Jasper.
 In April 2019, Miss R spoke to a representative of Jasper and shes given us a recording of 
this call. She said shed set up an account in the UK so she could make future payments. 
The representative explained Jasper was still willing to hand the property back to Miss R but 
shed need to make payments first. He agreed to check whether it could accept a payment of 
£3,000 in total  made up of the £1,800 she already tried to pay and £1,200 from the letting 
agent. Miss R said shed pay whatever was needed and asked the representative to tell the 
letting agent to release the funds.
Jasper has given us copies of some of its internal correspondence. The day after this 
conversation with Miss R, it agreed to dis-instruct the LPAR but it didnt tell the letting agent 
to release the funds. It also decided Miss R would need to pay a total of £4,800  so £3,000 
of the money the letting agent held in addition to the £1,800 shed already tried to pay. It 
doesnt have evidence to show it told Miss R this.
Around June 2019, Miss R says the letting agent released the funds to her. An internal email 
from the representative suggests shed been making regular payments to the account and 
was still keen to make a lumpsum payment once she knew how much was required. But at 
that point, Jasper decided not to move forward with anything as it had discovered there had 
been an application to have Miss Rs bankruptcy recognised in the UK.
In July 2019, Miss Rs bankruptcy was recognised in the UK. Shes highlighted this didnt 
mean shed been declared bankrupt here. As a result, Jasper told Miss R in August 2019 it 
planned to sell the property to protect its interest. And if she wanted it back, she needed to 
bring the mortgage balance to the position it was when she first got it.
Miss R says as she wasnt receiving a rental income and had been told the property would 
be sold, she stopped making mortgage payments in September 2019. Shes also not paid 
the maintenance fees for the property. She made a complaint in October 2019 as she felt 
Jasper hadnt honoured its offer to give her property back  and it hadnt been clear about 
what she needed to do. Jasper didnt agree it had done anything wrong. As things werent 
resolved, Miss R asked our service to look into the complaint.
Our investigator said we couldnt look at the points covered in Jaspers final response letter 
from January 2019 because they hadnt been brought to our service in time. But, she 
thought if it had made things clear to Miss R, she wouldve got the property back before the 
recognition order was issued. She also thought Jasper shouldve told the LPAR to hold off 
evicting the tenants while negotiations were ongoing. So, she suggested it pay Miss R 
£1,000 compensation and cover her financial loss.
Jasper agreed to pay compensation and work with Miss R to reach an agreement to hand 
back the property. But it didnt agree it should cover the losses our investigator identified. 
Miss R thought Jasper should pay more  and she raised concerns about her furniture and 
other additional costs. As the complaint wasnt resolved, it was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2021. I thought the complaint 
should be upheld in part in summary because:
I thought Miss R did everything she was led to believe was expected to get her property 
back. And I didnt think Jasper made it clear what more she needed to do. 
Jasper mortgages didnt move quickly enough to release the funds the letting agent held 
to Miss R. And this prevented her from being able to get the property back.
Had Jasper been clearer with Miss R and released the funds quicker, I thought she 
wouldve paid the amount required and regained control of the property. 
I thought Miss Rs tenants wouldve likely stayed and continued paying rent if they hadnt 
been evicted. And Jasper couldve delayed agreeing the eviction until a decision about 
handing the property back was made. As a result, Jasper left Miss R with an empty 
property which made it impossible for her to maintain the mortgage repayments. 
Its more likely Miss R wouldve taken control of the property around April 2019 and 
Jaspers actions prevented her doing that. 
I thought Miss Rs credit file wouldve been less impacted if Jasper had acted differently. 
I didnt think Jasper should cover the cost of re-letting the property as Miss R would 
eventually need to have done that anyway even if nothing went wrong.There was no information about the condition of Miss Rs items before the tenancy 
ended. So I didnt think Jasper should cover the cost of replacing them.
I thought it was Miss Rs responsibility to maintain her payments for the maintenance 
fees for the property. So I didnt think Jasper needed to cover her missed payments. 
To put things right in this case, in summary I thought Jasper should pay Miss R 
compensation for the distress itd caused her; cover her financial losses; remove negative 
markers from her file added since March 2019 and; pay towards the damp repair. I also 
thought it should return her property to her once shed paid the amount decided previously. 
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. Jasper 
accepted my provisional decision if it was in full and final settlement of the complaint. It said 
it would calculate the settlement and return the property once Miss R paid the £3,000.
Miss R said in summary she was told her tenants wouldnt be evicted and proceedings were 
on hold and she tried to make payments to Jasper. She thought Jasper should cover the 
cost of any missing or damaged items from her property as she couldnt inspect it or reduce 
the deposit returned. And it should cover the rent until the property is fully repaired. 
Following Miss Rs response, I asked both parties for further details of any end of tenancy 
inspection reports carried out before the deposit was handed back. Miss R gave us emails 
from October 2019 where shed authorised the full deposit be returned by the letting agent. 
Miss R thinks the return of the deposit shows the property was in the same condition as 
when the tenants moved in. So she says Jasper should be responsible for any deterioration 
since they moved out. Jasper let us know neither it nor the LPAR had any control over the 
deposit. I was also given reports from when Jasper took possession of the property; when it 
was being assessed for auction; and when the tenants first moved into it in 2014. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Damage by the tenants and deterioration since they left
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Jasper wasnt involved in the end of tenancy inspection  
or the decision to return the deposit. So I dont think it should cover the cost of replacing or 
repairing any items damaged or taken by the tenants. Miss R and her letting agent had the 
opportunity to take that amount from the deposit as part of the rental agreement but didnt.
In her response to my provisional decision, Miss R said the fact her letting agent decided to 
return the full deposit to her tenants meant her things must have been in the same condition 
as they were in 2014. So she thinks any damage she identifies after returning to the property 
mustve happened while it was left vacant and therefore should be covered by Jasper. 
I accept, as the property has been left vacant since the tenants were evicted in 2019, its 
possible there mightve been some deterioration to Miss Rs items or property over that time. 
But in this case, I think it will be very difficult to identify what damage was caused while the 
property was left vacant and what damage had already been caused. 
I say this because, Miss R has given us a report from 2014 when the property was first let 
out. And against each item, theres a description of its condition. Against many of the items, 
the description has been amended with handwritten notes, much of which describes them as 
in poor or fair condition. Several notes say the items were dirty or damaged. I dont have a report from Miss Rs letting agent showing the condition of the property or 
items in it at the end of the tenancy and I havent seen anything to suggest they inspected it 
at that point. I note the emails about whether to return the deposit were sent around 
October 2019  so several months after the tenants were evicted. 
Ive also been given the lenders possession report and a report about auctioning the 
property by another letting agent which were carried out in early 2019. These reports contain 
photos and descriptions of the condition of the property. Overall, they show damage and dirt 
 including stains on the carpets, missing wall tiles and unclean appliances. And it describes 
the property as being poorly maintained and in a poor condition. As these reports were from 
shortly after the tenants moved out, I think its more likely the property and items were left in 
the condition shown in those reports by the tenants. 
Taking everything together, Im not persuaded the deposit being returned means the 
property was left in the same condition as in the report from 2014, as the later reports seem 
to show it in a worse condition. In any event, even if the property and items were left in the 
same state as the start of the tenancy, its difficult to determine the precise level of damage 
there was at that point from the descriptions given in the initial report.
So whilst I agree it wouldve been fair for Jasper to cover the cost of any deterioration which 
has obviously been caused by the property being left vacant, I think it will be very difficult  if 
not impossible  for the parties to know what damage was there from the beginning of the 
tenancy; what was caused during the tenancy; and what has happened since. 
Considering Im directing Jasper to cover Miss Rs rental income from when the tenants 
were evicted until now  and theres no guarantee they wouldve stayed that entire time  I 
think the overall suggested settlement is fair. 
Duration the rental income is covered for
Miss R thinks Jasper should cover the rent until after the property is fully repaired. But 
Jasper wont be carrying out the repairs itself and so has no control over how long that 
takes. Its also clear from the reports that the property required further works  including 
damp repair  before things went wrong with Jasper. So I think its likely Miss R wouldve 
eventually needed to carry out works to ensure the property was fit for letting anyway. And 
that wouldve either been between tenancies  so shed lose out on rent  or she wouldve 
needed to reach an agreement with her tenants to carry out work while they were there. So I 
dont agree its fair for Jasper to cover the rent while she gets works on the property done.
Putting things right
I think Jasper gave Miss R poor service and wrong information  and thats meant shes 
been prevented from getting her property back. Ive thought about all of her foreseeable 
losses and the upset and confusion shes been caused at an already difficult time. To put 
things right in this case, I think Jasper should:
- Pay Miss R the £1,000 its already agreed for the severe distress its caused her.
- Work out how much Miss R wouldve received in rental income after her usual letting 
costs are deducted, from the date her tenants made their last payment until one calendar 
month after the date of settlement to give her time to market the property.
- Apply the above amounts to Miss Rs mortgage on the date the tenants would have 
made the payment each month  and adjust the interest applied to reflect that.- If the above payment brings the account up to date, pay anything left over from this 
amount to Miss R.
- Add 8% simple interest to that amount from the date the tenants wouldve made each 
payment until the complaint is settled.*
- Pay half of the reasonable costs to Miss R for repairing the damp problems at the 
property which are linked to the original issue identified in December 2018. Jasper can 
either pay towards the amount Miss R is quoted or, if it doesnt agree to that, obtain its 
own quote and pay 50% of the average amount of the two quotes. Miss R needs to 
provide an itemised quote directly to Jasper.
- Return the property to Miss R once shes paid the amount decided in April 2019. That is 
£3,000 as shes already paid £1,800. This is unless the account remains in arrears even 
after the rental income is paid towards it.
- Remove any negative markers from Miss Rs credit file which were added after 
March 2019 because she wasnt given the opportunity to regain control of the property.
*If Jasper considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax for 
that interest, it should tell Miss R how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Rs complaint 
and direct Topaz Finance Limited trading as Jasper Mortgages to put things right by doing 
what Ive said above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss R to accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman