DRN-2379016
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs G are unhappy about the way in which a claim has been handled under their
legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy, underwritten by DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision this complaint in October 2020 explaining why I was intending 
to partially uphold this complaint - part of which is copied below:
Mr and Mrs G have the benefit of a LEI policy. They made a claim under that policy to cover
their legal costs to pursue a claim against a particular firm for works carried out at their
premises.
Initially DAS said the claim wasnt covered under the terms of the policy on the basis that Mr
and Mrs G werent (in their personal capacity) party to the contract with the firm providing the
work. Mr and Mrs G were unhappy and raised several concerns about the advice received. 
And ultimately a counsels opinion was obtained towards the end of 2018 which advised that, 
on the balance of probabilities, Mr and Mrs G were the contracting party.
DAS put forward a further reason to say that the subject of the claim wasnt an insured
event. But by the end of 2018, after Mr and Mrs G had complained to our Service and an
investigator upheld their complaint, DAS had agreed to appoint a legal representative to act
for Mr and Mrs G in this claim - subject to the remaining terms of the policy. That included a
requirement that the claim needed to have reasonable prospects of succeeding for funding
to continue.
DAS agreed to appoint a non-panel law firm (the non-panel firm) at Mr and Mrs Gs request.
And in mid-February 2019 the non-panel firm advised that the prospects of them succeeding
in their claim were above 50%. DAS then sent the non-panel firm its working together
document which sets out the terms of agreement between it and the non-panel firm (the
agreement). The non-panel firm agreed to the terms of the agreement at the end of February
2019.
In order to progress the claim, the non-panel advised that an expert be instructed to attend
Mr and Mrs Gs premises and thereafter produce a report including the likely cost of
undertaking remedial works.
The non-panel firm requested authority from DAS to instruct an expert in early April 2019.
The expert didnt attend Mr and Mrs Gs premises until January 2020.
Mr and Mrs G say the delay was caused by DAS and without the experts report, their claim
couldnt be progressed. As a result of these delays, they say theyve incurred significant
financial loss in lost rent and experienced unnecessary distress.
Mr and Mrs G are also unhappy that:
once DAS took the decision to pay the experts fee before the conclusion of the
claim at the end of October 2019, it failed to appoint one of its panel law firms to
represent Mr and Mrs G in their claim;
theyve yet to be reimbursed for costs they personally incurred in 2018 relating to a
mediation service (which resulted in a mediation agreement being reached with the
firm who carried out the works  which they say the firm subsequently reneged on)
and a previous experts report (the two fees).
Our investigator partially upheld Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. He didnt think DAS had
unreasonably delayed Mr and Mrs Gs claim by failing to pay the experts fee before the
conclusion of the claim. And although DAS was unable to appoint the panel law firm that Mr
and Mrs G had requested represent them in November 2019, he didnt think that was due to
anything DAS had done wrong. However, he did recommend DAS confirm, without further 
delay, whether it accepted that the two fees were costs that were covered under the policy 
and it was responsible for. And if they were covered, he recommended the two fees be paid 
now together with interest, rather than wait until the conclusion of the claim.
DAS agreed to with our investigators assessment and had nothing further to add. It didnt
contest that the two fees were covered under the policy. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion. The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to partially 
uphold this complaint. Before I explain why I want to assure Mr and Mrs G that although I 
havent addressed each comment theyve made, I have taken on board everything theyve 
said.
I also acknowledge that Mr and Mrs G have raised several concerns about the way in which
DAS has handled their claim over the past few years (as well as another claim theyve made
on the policy). So that everyone is clear the complaint points Im determining are set out in
the background of this decision. And I wont be determining any issues beyond that.
Delays: April  December 2019
Its a term of the agreement that where DAS is responsible for the non-panel firms costs and
expenses these will be paid by DAS on conclusion of the claim and no request to the
customer should be made for payment of these, unless we direct you otherwise.
Expenses are defined by the agreement as: reasonable, proportionate and necessary
disbursements such as counsel / expert / agent / court fees.
The non-panel firm wrote to DAS in early April 2019 explaining why an expert should be
instructed in this case to visit Mr and Mrs Gs premises and prepare a report. It also notified
DAS of the fee quote provided by the expert for the work required. Im currently satisfied that
the experts fee amounts to an expense as defined by the agreement.
DAS requested comparative quotes before it would approve the cost of the experts report
which I dont think was unreasonable in this particular case; its not unusual for insurers to
request more than one quote to ensure that an amount being quoted isnt inflated,
particularly when it doesnt have an agreed fee structure in place with the expert providing
the quote.After the non-panel law firm explained to DAS that it was unable to find another expert with
the relevant experience needed, DAS approved this request and agreed to fund the experts
fee  and looking at the timeframe, I dont think it unreasonably delayed making that decision
in the circumstances of this case.
I can see that the expert wanted confirmation of when he would receive payment of his fees
and DAS confirmed to the non-panel law firm in mid-June 2019 that the agreement said
payment would be made at the conclusion of the claim.
It doesnt look like much then happened. I can see that the non-panel firm asked Mrs G in
early July 2019 whether she could contact the expert and persuade him to wait for payment.
But I dont think she did that as Ive seen an email from Mrs G to the non-panel firm in early
September 2019 that shes not able to confirm Mr Gs position. Theres also a further email
from her to the expert dated a couple of weeks after that apologising for not being able to
move things forward and that although DAS is willing to cover his fee, it hasnt agreed to his
timeframe for payment.
It wasnt until around this time that a complaint was raised with DAS about its decision not to
pay the fee until the conclusion of the claim. DAS investigated that complaint and at the end
of October 2019 it did agree, as a gesture of goodwill, to fund the experts report before the
conclusion of this case. That was so the claim could be progressed without further delay.
I know Mr and Mrs G think DAS shouldve made this decision sooner and if it had, the expert
wouldve visited their premises and the report wouldve been prepared much earlier than it
was. But I disagree. DAS had agreed to cover fee under the policy terms, and Im satisfied it
fairly relied on the terms of the agreement by initially saying it wouldnt pay the experts fee
until the conclusion of the claim. Although it subsequently took the decision to pay the
experts fee before then, I dont think that means it acted unfairly or unreasonably by not
taking that decision earlier, or when the request was first made.
So, Im not currently persuaded that DAS caused any unreasonable delays to the claim from
April to December 2019 inclusive.
I note that a further site visit was delayed because the expert said they wanted payment
before the site visit took place. I dont think it was unreasonable for DAS to request a copy of
the invoice before making payment  rather than making payment based on the previous fee
quote it had received. Its system notes reflect that it authorised payment directly to the
expert on 19 December 2019 which Im satisfied is a reasonable timeframe after receiving
the invoice. DAS had already explained to Mrs G that it could raise a payment quickly, but it
could take up to five working days for it to be released.
Appointing a panel law firm to represent Mr and Mrs G at the end of 2019
After DAS agreed to pay the experts fee before the conclusion of the claim at the end of
October 2019, Mr and Mrs G said theyd like DAS to allocate the claim to the panel law firm
who had previous represented them at an earlier stage in this claim (the panel firm). The
panel firm had previously advised that it didnt think Mr and Mrs G were personally party to
the contract.
DAS systems show that it contacted the panel law firm in early November 2019. The panel
firm declined to represent Mr and Mrs G; they said theyd alleged negligence against it
previously. I know Mr and Mrs G dont agree that they did this, but Ive also seen
correspondence from the panel firm to DAS from August 2017 saying that the relationship
with Mr and Mrs G had become irreparably damaged and it had terminated its relationship
with them.If a panel firm has declined to act, I dont think DAS can be reasonably held responsible for
not instructing them to represent Mr and Mrs G. Mr and Mrs G may not agree with the
reasons put forward by the panel law firm not to represent them but given theyre
independent law firms  which DAS has no control over - Im not persuaded that DAS
couldve reasonably done anything more in this situation.
I can see that DAS then contacted another one of its panel law firms (the other panel firm) to
represent Mr and Mrs G in the claim and details of the claim were communicated on 7
November 2019. A week later the other panel firm said it was unable to act as they were
conflicted. DAS promptly notified Mr and Mrs G about this.
Mr and Mrs G say that DAS sent details of the wrong claim to the other panel firm, rather
than the claim which is the subject of this complaint. And so, they say, the other panel firm
didnt determine whether it was conflicted in representing them in this claim.
Even if thats the case and DAS made a mistake when looking to see whether the other
panel firm could represent them, I dont think this impacted Mr and Mrs G at the time. Thats
because DAS also gave Mr and Mrs G the choice to either provide it with details of any other
law firm they wanted to use (and DAS said it would look to advance the case with that law
firm) or to remain with the non-panel firm, if they so wished. In an email from Mrs G to DAS
dated 13 January 2020 she says it was DAS whod suggested it may be better to appoint the
panel law firm and she had no reason to change from the non-panel firm at the time. And
she gave several reasons why, with the agreement of DAS, she preferred to remain
represented by the non-panel firm.
Other issues
DAS has agreed that it shouldve accepted Mr and Mrs Gs claim earlier than it did and there
was a period of time where Mr and Mrs G were funding the claim themselves. That included
paying the two fees in 2018.
DAS has said those costs would be considered at the conclusion of the claim. However, like
our investigator, I dont think that is a fair and reasonable position to put Mr and Mrs G in,
particularly as they say theyve already paid these amounts. If cover had been put in place
sooner, and a law firm had been appointed under the terms of the agreement, then its likely
Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have personally paid the two fees. DAS confirmed it agreed with the
investigators assessment and didnt contest that the two fees were covered under the
policy.
So, if it hasnt done so already, within 28 days of receiving documentary evidence of the
invoices being paid by Mr and Mrs G, I intend to direct DAS to pay Mr and Mrs G the total
cost of the two invoices. I also intend to direct it to pay 8% annual simple interest on those
amounts from the date on which Mr and Mrs G paid each invoice to the date on which DAS
reimburses them.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. DAS had nothing to add. Mrs G has raised a 
number of points including (but not restricted to):
she has suffered significant financial losses as a result of the way in which the claim 
has been handled  including unnecessary delays  going back to 2017;the non-panel firm say it didnt enter into an agreement with DAS to cover 
disbursements;
DAS couldve told her much earlier than it did that the non-panel firm was responsible 
for paying any disbursements until the conclusion of the case;
The terms of the agreement were too restrictive; and
DAS incentivised the non-panel firm to sit on the claim, resulting in the delays from 
April 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the additional comments received from Mrs G incorporated in a number of 
documents shes provided for my attention. 
I know Mrs G feels very strongly about her complaint. I can tell shes very frustrated by the 
situation she is in and the significant financial losses shes incurred by not being able to rent 
out her property. But her further representations havent changed my thoughts about the 
outcome of this complaint. I say that because:
many of the points Mrs G has raised are points shes raised previously, and Id 
considered them before issuing my provisional decision;
Ive seen no evidence to support what she says about DAS incentivising the non-
panel firm to sit on the claim, as Mrs G says;
Ive seen evidence from the end of February 2019 reflecting that the non-panel firm 
agreed to the terms of the agreement. Theres no evidence to suggest that they 
werent happy with any of those terms at the time including the term that: where DAS 
is responsible for the non-panel firms costs and expenses (which under the 
agreement included experts fees) these will be paid by DAS on conclusion of the 
claim. That doesnt necessary mean that the non-panel firm had to cover any 
disbursements until the conclusion of the case  but the agreement does also reflect 
that the non-panel firm shouldnt ask Mr and Mrs G to cover these personally during 
the lifetime of the case. 
In the circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded that DAS acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not informing Mr and Mrs G of this particular term earlier than it did. 
As set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that DAS acted appropriately by 
reminding the non-panel firm of this term in mid-June 2019. The agreement was 
between DAS and the non-panel firm and I dont think DAS needed to also notify Mr 
and Mrs G of its position at that time; particularly as Mr and Mrs G hadnt queried 
DAS decision not to pay the experts fees then.
 
Mrs G has asked that I take a holistic look at all the concerns she has raised about DAS over 
the years. However, Ive limited my decision to the issues Ive set out in the background 
section of this decision. Mr and Mrs Gs other complaints have already been determined by 
our Service. Mrs G would also like me to ask the non-panel firm for further information, but 
Im satisfied I have sufficient information to make a final determination on this complaint. Mrs G has also raised more general concerns about the way in which DAS operates. But Ive 
considered the individual circumstances of this complaint when considering whether DAS 
has acted fairly and reasonably, as Im required. And for the reasons set out above  and 
those set out fully in my provisional decision  Im not persuaded that its fair and reasonable 
to hold DAS responsible for the delays that took place from April 2019 to around December 
2019.
But I do partially uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint in respect of the other issues Ive set out 
in my provisional decision. Namely, I dont think DAS acted fairly and reasonably by asking 
Mr and Mrs G to wait until the conclusion of the claim to pay the two fees in 2018; a time 
when Mr and Mrs G were funding the claim themselves. DAS has agreed that is shouldve 
accepted the claim earlier than it did.
Putting things right
If DAS hasnt done so already, within 28 days of receiving documentary evidence of the 
invoices being paid by Mr and Mrs G, it should pay Mr and Mrs G:
A.  the total cost of the two invoices; and 
B. 8% annual simple interest* on the amounts set out in A. from the date on which Mr 
and Mrs G paid each invoice to the date on which DAS reimburses them.
*If DAS considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax
from any interest paid, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It should also give
them a certificate showing this if asked for one. That way Mr and Mrs G can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. I direct DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman