DRN-3972333
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC Bank) irresponsibly gave him a credit 
card account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 18 April 2019, Mr S applied for a credit account with HSBC Bank. The initial credit limit 
was £7,000. 
In 2022, Mr S complained to HSBC Bank to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that HSBC Bank ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before doing so. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. HSBC Bank didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 3 February 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
HSBC Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ss complaint is that HSBC Bank made credit available that was unaffordable. HSBC 
Bank has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr S provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Mr Ss name 
to assess Mr Ss level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been managing 
that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, HSBC Bank decided to 
agree to the credit limit of £7,000. The HSBC Bank checks showed that Mr S already owed 
an amount in unsecured borrowings that was over £6,000. This is not a modest amount of 
revolving credit borrowing but it isnt immodest when compared to the good salary that Mr S 
declared. That salary was tested to see if it was as in line with the normal range of salary for 
someone of Mr Ss age, job type and demographic information. The test confirmed the 
accuracy of the declared income.  
HSBC Bank also told us that the checks they performed showed that Mr Ss credit file was 
very clean at the time of the loan application. HSBC Bank told us they used Experian 
Bureau Data which lead to an automatic acceptance which suggests there were no 
concerns raised in the report about Mr Ss existing borrowing. Its disappointing that I have 
not been able to see the results of those checks. But it is true that Ive been shown no 
evidence that brings that information into doubt.  
So, it seemed from the credit checks that at the point that the lending decision was made, 
Mr S was affording his existing credit. And so, HSBC Bank were not put on notice of any 
reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the information that 
HSBC Bank had at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to feel they ought 
to make more searching enquiries of Mr Ss expenditure. 
Mr S has provided us with some bank statements for his current account with a different 
bank and they do show some evidence of gambling on them. I have to look at the 
information that was available to HSBC Bank at the time it made its lending decisions and 
not to use hindsight. I have seen no evidence that Mr S made HSBC Bank aware of his 
gambling at the time the credit card was applied for. And because Mr S was a new customer 
of HSBC Bank, they had no previous relationship. So, I have seen insufficient evidence that 
the other information that HSBC Bank acquired or had presented to it at the time of the 
lending decision, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr Ss 
expenditure more closely. 
In this case, I have noted that HSBC Bank described the purpose of the credit card as 
being for balance transfers. I havent seen anything from the point of sale that confirms 
that. But eight days after the credit card was applied for, Mr S made three balance 
transfers which amounted to £6,200. The credit card had offered 28 months at 0% interest 
on any balance transfers made within 60 days of the account opening. So, it seems most 
likely that the credit card was applied for with a view to make the balance transfers that 
followed shortly afterwards. 
So, I dont see the activity on the card as evidence solely of new credit being provided by 
HSBC Bank, adding to an already significant amount of personal borrowing. Instead, it 
looks more likely that Mr S was taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to manage his 
existing debt by taking out this card and using it to secure more favourable terms to 
existing credit. I say that because Mr S would have been saving money on interest he 
would have been paying elsewhere. So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for 
HSBC Bank to have facilitated that.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr S to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that the 
credit HSBC Bank provided to Mr S was unreasonable. 
I know that Mr S will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr S to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 17 February 2023. HSBC Bank has not acknowledged receiving 
the decision or made any further submission or asked for an extension to do so. Mr S made 
three submissions on the day the provisional decision was issued. He was told these 
submissions had been added to the file for my consideration, which they have been, and 
asked to make any further submission by 14 February. We have received no further 
communication from Mr S. 
I think that both parties have had sufficient time to make substantive further submissions if 
they had wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S still feels that HSBC Bank were negligent in the checks they performed and believes 
the lending was unreasonable. Whilst Mr S hasnt engaged with the points I made in my 
provisional decision, or provided any new evidence for me to review, his disappointment with 
my provisional findings is clear. In particular, Mr S was disappointed because he had other 
complaints that were upheld. But I need to explain that each case is considered on the 
merits of its own particular circumstances. 
 
Given the above, having reconsidered the full complaint file again, I believe that I have no 
reason to depart from those provisional findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons 
for not upholding Mr Ss complaint (above), I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman