DRN-4111514
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC declined a transaction on her account.
What happened
Miss C holds a current account with Metro Bank. In January 2023 Miss C tried to make a 
payment for a T shirt. The payment was declined.
Miss C complained to Metro Bank. In response, Metro Bank said the payment had been 
declined in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Miss C wasnt happy with the response. She wants Metro Bank to provide further information 
about why it declined the transaction. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that whilst they understood Miss Cs 
concern about the transaction being declined, the bank had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and was entitled to decline a transaction without giving a specific 
reason.
Miss C didnt agree. She said it was unreasonable for the bank to prevent her from buying a 
T shirt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss C made a payment from the account on 27 January 2023. Miss C has 
explained that this was to purchase a T shirt for an awareness campaign.
Metro Bank declined the transaction and returned the money to Miss Cs account. It said that 
it had declined the transaction in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ive looked at the term and conditions of the account. These say  amongst other things  
that the bank can refuse to make a payment in certain circumstances. Miss C agreed to 
these terms and conditions when she opened the account.
Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that Metro Bank has made an error. It was 
entitled to decline the transaction in line with the terms and conditions. I appreciate that Miss 
C wants to know exactly why the transaction was declined. However, Metro Bank isnt under 
any obligation to provide a specific reason.
I understand that Miss C feels that its unfair that she was unable to complete her purchase. 
However, for the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to say that the bank has done anything 
wrong here. Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman