DRN-3680857
The complaint
Mr J and Ms P complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined
a claim on their pet insurance policy.
What happened
Another ombudsman sent the parties a provisional decision in April 2022, in which he set out 
the following background information to the complaint and his provisional findings. 
Mr J and Ms P had a pet insurance policy underwritten by RSA for their cat. The policy 
started on 18 August 2021 and included a 14-day exclusion period at the beginning of the 
policy term. When their pet began to suffer from vomiting and dry heaving, they submitted a 
claim for investigative treatment. But RSA rejected the claim. It said the pet had shown signs 
of a gastrointestinal condition during the exclusion period.
Mr J and Ms Ps vet said that wasnt the case. The medical issue claimed for had begun
outside of the cooling-off period and they were still at the investigative stage and didnt have 
a diagnosis yet. So Mr J and Ms P want RSA to apologise and honour their claim. RSA said 
the claim was declined because clinical signs were present within the first 14 days of the 
policy start date. Under the terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy that wasnt 
covered. RSA said its in-house vets had reviewed the claim. And it felt hairball production, 
while not abnormal in cats, should be an infrequent event. If it was occurring more than 
every couple of weeks, it would look to underlying causes in the gastrointestinal tract. The 
pet had been bringing up hairballs every 2 or 3 days before vomiting and that wasnt normal.
RSA believed it was most likely linked to an underlying gastrointestinal condition, supported
by the fact that vomiting had begun within days of the excessive hairball production.
Mr J and Ms P werent satisfied with RSAs response. Our investigator could see RSA felt 
the production of hairballs was most likely linked to an underlying gastrointestinal condition. 
But the treating vet had said it was quite possible the production of furballs was separate 
from the vomiting condition being claimed for. And without a specific diagnosis for the 
vomiting they couldnt be certain whether or not it was related.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded RSA had conclusively shown the hairball production was
a sign or symptom of the vomiting or a gastrointestinal issue. So she didnt think RSA could
reasonably rely on the exclusion to decline the claim. And RSA should consider the claim
subject to the remaining policy terms, excluding the terms and conditions starting with the
first 14 days.
RSA didnt agree with our investigator. RSA felt itd demonstrated it was more likely that the 
symptom of gastritis was present before the policy commenced. So on the balance of 
probabilities the symptoms were present within the first 14 days. The vet didnt exclude 
gastritis. And the frequency of the hairball production indicated an underlying GI issue - 
which did appear to be the problem as the vet had still been investigating the cause.
Provisional findings
The ombudsman said that when Mr J and Ms P complained that RSA had unfairly declined 
their claim, the insurer asked its in-house vets to review their pets medical history. Based on 
the frequency of the hairball production, followed by vomiting, it believed the most likely 
cause was an underlying gastrointestinal condition. That meant the clinical signs of the 
treatment claimed for in October were present during the first 14 days of the policy start.
RSA has relied on the following exclusion to decline this claim we dont pay for illnesses
which you or your vet were aware of in the first 14 days of your policy first starting, or any
illness that develops from them. By illness we mean, both diagnosed illness and signs or
symptoms of illness (undiagnosed illness).
The ombudsman thought it was clear from these terms that any condition which began 
before the policy started, or in the first 14 days of the policy, wouldnt be covered. Looking at 
the medical history on 9 September he said Mr J and Ms P had reported two weeks of 
intermittent vomiting, taking place every two or three days. He said it started as hairballs but 
had developed into food being brought up on two occasions. He thought its fair to say the 
symptoms had been taking place during the 14-day exclusion period.
RSA asked the treating vet to confirm when they believed the gastric condition had started.
The vet said the gastric condition was likely to have started within the 24-hour period prior to
the examination on 9 September. But they couldnt be 100% certain that the hairballs were
unrelated to the vomiting as they didnt have a specific diagnosis.
The ombudsman understood that hairball production isnt unusual in cats, but wouldnt 
normally occur more than monthly or every few weeks at most. Anything more frequent 
would indicate there was another issue that needed investigating. He appreciated that the 
treating vet couldnt say for sure what was causing the problem, and was still carrying out 
investigations. But he didnt think RSA has acted unfairly in suggesting intermittent vomiting 
every two or three days was abnormal.
The ombudsman thought the symptoms were happening too frequently, suggesting an 
underlying gastrointestinal condition was the more likely cause than normal hairball 
production. He said the exclusion clause relied on by RSA didnt require a diagnosis to have 
taken place. The signs or symptoms had already begun during the 14-day exclusion period. 
And he thought it more likely that the symptoms were related to the treatment later claimed 
by Mr J and Ms P.
The ombudsman was satisfied RSA has shown its likely Mr J and Ms Ps pet was showing 
signs of illness before the end of the 14-day exclusion period. And it followed that RSA had 
acted fairly in declining Mr J and Ms Ps claim based on the medical information provided.
The provisional decision and the parties responses 
The ombudsman provisionally decided not to uphold the complaint.
RSA said it has demonstrated that its more likely that gastritis symptoms were present 
before the policy commenced, or within the first 14 days. It said when the policyholders 
reported, intermittent vomiting for the past two weeks - every 2-3 days. Started as fur-balls, 
but today bought up food twice", "discuss hair-ball treatment longer term", the treating vet did 
not exclude gastritis but rather confirmed that they cannot be 100% certain that the furballs 
are unrelated to the gastritis issues. RSA said the treating vet hasnt provided any medical 
explanation as to why they feel that the furballs are unrelated to gastritis.
RSA said it provided a medical reason that cats shouldnt be bringing up hairballs every 2-3 
days as opposed to once a month on average or possibly once every couple of weeks. RSA said its only a concern if a cat is vomiting a hairball every few weeks or consistently for more 
than 48 hours at a time. It said hair should pass normally through the gastrointestinal tract 
and shouldnt be brought up with frequency. RSA said if this is happening it usually indicates 
an underlying gastrointestinal issue, which appears to be the problem here that manifested 
within the first 14-day period, with the cause still being investigated.
Mr J and Ms P disagreed with the provisional decision, saying it still hadnt been confirmed 
that their cat has a medical condition. They said the vomiting happened on the day of 
assessment and the dry heaving started afterwards as confirmed by their vet. They said their 
cat had been shedding a lot of hair since arriving from abroad, which they thought could be 
due to the stress of travel or acclimatisation which could have caused fur balls. 
Mr J and Ms P said the dry heaving and vomiting didnt start within the first 14 days  it was 
nine days into policy when fur balls started and so the fur balls would have to have been 
within a five-day period. Mr J and Ms P felt let down by RSA as they were given a false 
sense that their claim would be covered and said they received poor customer service by the 
way that RSA handled their phone calls.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ombudsman who wrote the provisional decision isnt in a position to provide a final 
decision and so this complaint has come to me. I have reviewed all the evidence and 
information in order to provide this final decision to the complaint. This includes the 
recordings of the calls between Mr J and the insurers.
Cases involving the timing of when symptoms began, and the nature of the symptoms are 
difficult to determine and so we have to be guided by the evidence to determine what we 
think most likely to have happened. I understand from Mr J and Ms P that their cat still hasnt 
had a confirmed medical diagnosis and so there isnt much new evidence to guide a decision 
about what had happened when their pet first became ill and they claimed to RSA. 
From Mr J and Ms Ps pets medical history I can see that they reported two weeks of 
intermittent vomiting on 9 September 2021. From the calls I can see Mr J made his claim at 
the start of October and said his pets symptoms of throwing up and dry heaving had been 
ongoing for over a month. He said his vet wanted to do an ultrasound investigation in case of 
a growth and he requested a claim form. Later in October RSA rejected Mr Js claim and he 
called to challenge this and said that his pet started vomiting on the day the claim form 
arrived not 14 days previously. Mr J disputed the diagnosis put forward by RSAs vet and 
called the insurer to cancel his policy describing it as a joke.  
There is some information from Mr J and Ms Ps vet which is somewhat inconclusive, and 
theres the opinion of RSAs vet. The latter has reviewed the pets medical history and thinks 
the most likely cause of its problems was an underlying gastrointestinal condition. This is 
based on the frequency of the hairball production, followed by vomiting. The vet states the 
common frequency of this and said that Mr J and Ms Ps pets illness is outside of the likely 
range for this issue. The vet states this means the clinical signs of the treatment claimed for 
in October were present during the first 14 days of the policy starting.
I understand that without a specific diagnosis the vets couldnt be completely certain that 
hairballs were unrelated to the vomiting. However, RSA doesnt have to have a diagnosis in 
order to apply the exclusion clause for treatment within the policy.Where the parties disagree about the facts of a complaint, we have to decide on what we 
think is most likely to have happened. On the balance of probabilities, I find the evidence 
from RSAs vet persuasive about the likely cause of the problem and the point at which this 
was likely to have manifested itself and it seems likely to have been within the 14-day period 
following the commencement of the policy. I say this because two weeks before 9 
September is within the period that the policy clearly states isnt covered for any illness. And 
so I agree with the ombudsman who issued the provisional decision that it was not 
unreasonable for RSA to decline the claim in the circumstances.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman