DRN-3354519
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt reimbursed card payments he made from his 
bank account to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr O has told us he was searching online for investment opportunities and came across 
company C. He registered for an account and with the help of a broker, made payments 
into this account between January and June 2018. This case relates to the payments he 
made from his Barclays account between May and June 2018. Mr O did receive some 
returns on his investments, but when he asked to withdraw his funds, the broker cut all forms 
of communication with him and the online platform he used was taken down.
In May 2019, Mr O logged a chargeback claim with Barclays for the payments he made from 
this account. The claim was unsuccessful as Mr O was outside the timescales VISA specify 
to be able to raise this type of claim. Mr O was unhappy with this response so brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator agreed that chargeback wouldve failed in 2019, but he thought Barclays 
shouldve contacted Mr O about the third transaction he sent from this account. Due to the 
value of payments sent on that day and the type of transaction, he felt Barclays shouldve 
intervened and called Mr O. And he said if it had, it likely wouldve unravelled the scam and 
Mr O then couldve used chargeback to get the previous payments returned. Barclays 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in February 2022. My provisional findings were:
Im in agreement with Barclays and our investigator that a chargeback claim wouldnt 
have been successful in 2019. This is both due to the time passed since the 
transactions, as Mr O was too late. But I consider even before this it likely wouldve 
failed, due to the evidence needed for a chargeback claim. Mr O has explained that 
when he tried to make withdrawals, he lost access to his account  and dated 
screenshots from his trading account wouldve been needed to successfully claim under 
VISAs chargeback rules. He didnt attempt a chargeback until after hed lost access.
Ive then thought about whether or not Barclays shouldve intervened. Its said the 
transactions in question werent out of character for Mr O. Its pointed our he 
previously invested in 2017 from this account, including sending a payment of 
£8,000. And that he regularly made high value payments.
Ive reviewed his statements and I accept that what Barclays has said is true in relation 
to his investment history and payments of several thousand being sent by him fairly 
regularly. But I dont agree with it that this means the transactions in question werent 
unusual.
Mr O sent £20,789.79 in one day to a fairly new payee, by three international payments 
 the amounts were sent in US dollars. This isnt the same behaviour as sending several 
thousand pounds to known payees. And when he previously invested, over 12 months 
before, this was payments in GBP and nowhere near this value. So I do think these 
payments were out of character for Mr O and Barclays shouldve intervened. I think it 
shouldve called him before processing the second payment, as combined with the first, 
he was trying to send £13,089.87 internationally that day. Even considering the previous 
investment payment, this is a substantial sum.
However, Ive then thought about what most likely wouldve happened if Barclays had 
called Mr O. And I dont agree it wouldve been able to unravel this scam.
At the time Mr O was making these payments, Barclays wasnt on notice for these kind 
of trading scams. They werent well known or publicised by the regulator until months 
later. So it couldve only been expected to give Mr O a general fraud and scams 
warning. And Im aware that Mr O had been investing with C for five months by the 
time I think Barclays shouldve called him. And I can see that in this time hed received 
returns from C into another bank account  the one hed used to make payments 
between January and April 2018. And hes not suggested hed had any problems or 
concerns with them until much later, when he tried to withdraw a larger sum.
Mr O has told us C promised him a 10% return, which I accept is unusually high. 
Questions around the return the broker had suggested couldve been part of Barclays 
conversation with Mr O. And both a promised, and this level of, return could then have 
been a concern and suggested to Barclays this may not be a genuine investment.
But from Mr Os other bank statements, I can see hed actually received this return for 
his initial payments  he actually received just over 10% of what he invested. So even if 
Barclays had questioned this, I think Mr O wouldve been satisfied that he was dealing 
with a genuine firm. Hed have been able to confirm to Barclays hed actually received, 
into another account, the returns hed been promised and over a period of time. And he 
had an existing, positive relationship with this particular firm. So this, and his previous 
high-risk investment history, meant he wasnt a new or novice investor. And I think hed 
have still been confident in the firm.
Ive thought about if there was anything else in Mr Os testimony that ought to have 
concerned Barclays if it came up and meant Mr O wouldve then been able to 
realise this was a scam. But Im not satisfied there wouldve been.
The only other unusual element in Mr Os testimony about the broker is that he 
wasnt paying them direct. But hes told us hed questioned the firm himself about 
why he was paying a different business to invest, and the broker had explained this 
to his satisfaction. And I can see the payments he received were from the same 
party he paid. So even if Barclays questions had established this difference in firms, 
Mr O wouldve explained hed already looked into it, and so Im not confident this 
wouldve unravelled things either.
I fully accept Mr O has been the victim of a scam. But unfortunately, I think it was set 
up in such a way that any intervention by Barclays wouldnt have unravelled it and 
prevented further payments being made. And Mr O doesnt hold what was needed for 
a successful chargeback claim, even if he had brought this in time. So Im not minded 
to say Barclays needs to return any of the funds he lost.
Barclays said it agreed with the provisional decision. Mr O said he had nothing further to 
add, so the complaint has been returned to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has added anything further, I see no reason to change my findings from my 
provisional decision, included above.
I dont think Barclays was wrong not to pursue a chargeback claim in this case, as it wouldnt 
have been successful. And while I do think Barclays shouldve called Mr O and discussed 
with him about the second payment he made towards this scam, I havent concluded this call 
wouldve prevented him sending this money, or the further payment he made. So Im not 
concluding Barclays needs to reimburse him any of the funds he lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman