DRN-2382293
The complaint
Mr L complains that Alwyn Insurance Company Limited declined his claim made under his 
motor insurance policy. He wants his claim covered. 
What happened
Mr L took out a policy with Alwyn. He then made a claim as his car was stolen and damaged. 
But Alwyn said he wasnt covered at the time as the confirmation hed received of his cover 
was in UTC (Coordinated Universal Time). And this was after the time the car was stolen. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He looked at the 
systems evidence for the policys purchase. And he saw that Mr L had received a 
confirmation in UTC, which was an hour earlier than British Summer Time (BST). So he 
thought the policy had been bought after the time of the accident.   
Mr L replied that his confirmation email didnt mention UTC and so he thought he was 
covered at the time of the accident. Mr L asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alwyn declined Mr Ls claim as it said cover wasnt in place at the time of the accident. It said 
that Mr Ls confirmation email was automated and sent by UTC. It said the BST time stamps 
for the quote and the payment were an hour later than this UTC time, which was after the 
accident occurred. 
Ive looked at the evidence that Alwyn has provided and the date stamps on the 
transactions. I can see that Alwyn received the quote details, the bank details and the 
authorisation for the payment of the deposit for the policy time stamped after the time of the 
accident. 
A purchase confirmation email was then sent to Mr L. The header for this email shows that it 
was sent exactly one hour after the date and time of purchase stated in the text. Alwyn 
explained that this was because it was sent automatically by a system running in UTC. This 
isnt stated on the email Mr L received. But Ive looked at the system details and I can see 
that it doesnt take into account local time, i.e. BST. 
So, from the evidence available, the time stamps for Alwyns software and the external 
payments system show activity to buy the policy after the time of the accident. The 
confirmation was sent when the purchase was confirmed, and not an hour earlier. So I cant 
say that cover was in place when the accident occurred. And so I dont require Alwyn to 
consider the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman