DRN-3994627
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service provided by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) when 
making a claim on his private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I note that Mr H called AXA on a few occasions and experienced long delays while 
waiting for the calls to be answered. He was calling to get his treatment authorised. 
Mr H says this was unacceptable and he should be compensated for this as well as 
have a 75% refund of his premium.
AXA responded to Mr Hs complaint and said it accepts that there were delays for 
calls to be answered. It apologised and paid £50 compensation in recognition of the 
poor service. AXA also said it has recruited more staff and while it takes time for 
these team members to be trained, the service levels will improve. 
Ive considered what happened and reviewed both Mr Hs and AXAs information 
provided to us. I agree that the service levels in answering telephone calls could 
have been better and there were delays caused which could have been avoided. But, 
taking everything into account, Im satisfied that £50 compensation for what 
happened is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate its been frustrating and distressing for Mr H to experience delays on the 
calls when he required treatment to be authorised. However, I can see that AXA has 
accepted it could be better and has offered compensation. I think this is fair and 
reasonable. 
I understand Mr H would like a 75% refund of his premium because of the service 
hes received. However, my understanding is that Mr H has benefitted from the 
policy. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for him to receive a refund on the premium as 
well as make a claim on the policy.
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded that AXA should 
pay further compensation for what happened. It has accepted that the service could 
have been better and taken steps to make improvements and recruit staff. In 
recognition of its failing, it offered Mr H £50 compensation. I think this is fair and 
reasonable. I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could ask 
AXA to award further compensation or to refund 75% of the policy premium. It follows 
that I dont require AXA to do anything further. 
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint about AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman