DRN-1486327
 
The complaint
Mrs C says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about 16 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mrs C between June 2018 
and September 2019.  Mrs C borrowed amounts ranging between £50 and £250 to be repaid 
in six monthly instalments. The loans overlapped so that in some months Mrs C was 
repaying several loans. There were no significant breaks in the lending. From what I can see 
loans 10 and 13 to 15 have balances still outstanding. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Cs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed and offered redress for loans nine 
onward. Mrs C was unhappy with this offer so the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner.These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Sunny asked Mrs C for information about her income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mrs C said she earned £3,730 a month. She said her monthly expenditure 
was between about £1,000 and £1,450. I cant see that Sunnys credit checks found 
anything adverse that should have prompted further checks.
For loans one to three, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time and her history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Mrs C provided or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mrs C was saying. The loans looked affordable and so I cant say it was 
wrong for Sunny to have provided loans one to three. 
But, as our adjudicator explained, Sunnys checks for loan four would have shown that Mrs 
C was having problems managing her money. This was because when Mrs C asked for loan 
four she still had three loans outstanding with Sunny. So I think Sunny should have realised 
that Mrs C would be unable to sustainably repay loan four, or any subsequent loans. And so 
I think Sunny was wrong to have provided loans from loan four onwards. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Cs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan six. I say this because by this point Mrs Cs overall pattern of lending showed that she 
was persistently reliant on short-term loans:
This was Mrs Cs sixth loan in six months and the amounts she borrowed didnt 
significantly decrease.
From loan six onwards Mrs C was provided with a new loan within days or weeks of 
settling a previous one. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Mrs C was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was 
leaving in her finances and that Mrs Cs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mrs C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan 15 was 
taken out 15 months after Mrs Cs first. And it was for a similar amount. Mrs C had 
paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended 
period. 
I think that Mrs C lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Cs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mrs Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 15 and I think Sunny should put things 
right. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mrs C, I think Sunny should:
buy back any debt it has sold on or liaise with the purchaser to achieve the results 
set out below;
refund all interest and charges Mrs C paid on loans  4 to 15, offset this refund against 
any principal still owing and pay Mrs C the remainder; or, if a balance remains owing, 
then arrange an affordable repayment plan to clear this;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 4 to 5 from Mrs Cs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 to 15 should be removed from 
Mrs Cs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mrs Cs 
complaint. I require Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mrs C 
compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman