DRN-2762355
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly advised them to lock away £90,000 
(jointly) in a six-year product which was likely to deliver a lower return that an instant-access 
savings account  in 2007.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Js representative also said that the advisor didnt sufficiently investigate or 
consider their likely future plans in enough detail. They had recently sold their home, due to 
Mr Js health issues and the necessity to stop work temporarily and were renting a property. 
Their future was uncertain and were conflicted as to when to go back into the housing 
market. Given this, it was completely inappropriate to recommend they put most of their 
money in a product with a six-year commitment.
Mr and Mrs J surrendered their investment in 2008, suffering a small loss.
An investigator at this service felt their complaint should be upheld, saying:
Mr and Mrs J had £109,000 in cash, mostly from their property sale, and it was not 
unreasonable that they consider how best to invest £90,000 of this
The advisor said (in the fact find) Mr and Mrs J were not sure of their future plans
But were looking to return to the housing market in the future
They had no investment experience so were dependent on HSBC for appropriate 
advice
While Mr J had been off work with a bad leg for six months, his health was good
He was on the road to recovery and was back in full time employment 
Their objective was to protect their capital and they wanted capital growth rather than 
income
The fact find does state that cash-based products were discussed but these were 
dismissed as large capital sums run the risk of being eroded by inflation
Considering the recent house sale and Mr Js ill-health in recent years in recent 
years, its reasonable to assume that this money was very important to their future
The question, therefore, is whether they wanted to tie their money up when they were 
unsure of their future plans
The evidence strongly indicated that it wasnt appropriate to recommend they tie up 
their money for six years given the significant upfront charges and costs to an early 
surrender
Instead, they should have been advised to keep their money in an instant-access, 
high-interest savings account. As they had a further £19,000 in either cash or deposit 
accounts, they could have put their money into HSBCs Premium Savings Account 
paying 4.79% at the time of advice
This therefore should be the basis for calculating fair compensation. If such a 
calculation shows a loss, HSBC should add 8% interest to any loss figure from the 
date of surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint
HSBCs representative did not agree, and said:
I believe their plans were very clear: they had sold their home as they wanted to go 
into rented accommodation and at the same time take advantage of the equity in the 
property
They did this because Mr J felt the housing market was static and by paying a little 
rent they could get a larger property. Im not sure how much clearer the advisor could 
have documented this
The advisor also documented very clearly that their monies would need to be 
committed for a period of at least six years; this was noted on more than one 
occasion in clear language, even to the extent the advisor has provided a specific 
end date for the investment
Their needs and objectives, full capital protection with potential for capital growth and 
better return than cash deposits, were discussed with standard savings products 
discounted
Therefore, it would seem that - based on their circumstances at the time - the 
recommendation did meet their needs and objectives. What more could the advisor 
have documented about Mr and Mrs Js needs and objectives beyond what Mr and 
Mrs J had discussed?
With reference to the lack of diversification, it was clear from the fact find that other 
capital-protected products were discussed and discounted along with the advisor 
documenting why more than £20,000 would not normally be recommended into one 
single fund, but this met their need for capital protection and their objective for 
potentially better returns than cash deposits the recommendation
You cant have a capital-protected product that is diversified into other asset classes. 
The benefit of a capital-protected investment is that it protects the investor against 
falls in the stock-market, which is what Mr and Mrs J were seemingly looking for
It was clear again from the fact find that a discussion was held regarding going back 
into the housing market and their long-term plans, there is nothing noted about their 
short terms plans and that they may in the short term consider purchasing a property
All the factual evidence available points to this simply being a change in 
circumstances and plans, and we dont think it is fair that HSBC should be held 
accountable for this. It is very clear that conversations were held during the two 
meetings around their short and long-term plans, and it was made very clear that this 
was a six-year commitment and that they shouldnt have proceeded if their short-term 
intention was to purchase a property
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs J had no investment knowledge or experience and therefore 
would have been dependent on the advisor for appropriate and sensible advice, based on 
their circumstances and likely requirements.
So while they may have read the documentation and agreed to this recommendation, both in 
terms of the six-year commitment and the formula for receiving any return, the key issue is 
whether they were given good advice and whether they were given sufficient information to 
make an informed decision about whether to commit most of their money to this product. On 
both counts, I dont think they were.
Firstly, considering the product itself, my view is that this was a particularly complex capital-guaranteed product, with returns based on a formula which I am not convinced Mr and Mrs J 
would have understood. 
It also had comparatively high charges of nearly 7% which would have a significant impact 
on potential returns. Based on the product literatures growth illustration of 6.3% this would 
deliver a return of 5.1% at the end of six years. While Mr and Mrs J were unlikely to have 
fully understood the implications of this, their advisor certainly would, or should, have done.
He should have known that the figure of 6.3% would have been based on a regulator-
approved projection of likely future FTSE rises over the next six years, based on previous 
and/or recent statistics. He should therefore have known that 5.1% was, on balance, the 
most likely annual return Mr and Mrs J would get if they retained the product for the full six 
years  although they could receive more, less or no return.
It is therefore hard to understand why he thought it made sense for Mr and Mrs J to risk 
getting no return on their money in order to potential receive just 0.31% more than they were 
guaranteed via its Premium Savings Account.
Crucially, Ive seen no evidence to indicate that the advisor provided Mr and Mrs J with such 
a fair comparison such that they were in a position to make an informed decision about 
whether to risk getting nothing back after six years for such a tiny potential gain over the 
guaranteed returns via a risk-free and flexible savings account.
Given this, I do not believe that Mr and Mrs J would have chosen to invest a total of £90,000 
in this product, if fully and fairly advised.
I also share the investigators concerns about whether the advisor fully explored the 
suitability of a product which committed Mr and Mr Js money for six years. While Mr J may 
have said he had no immediate plans to buy a new property, Mrs Js view (which according 
to the advisors report was more nuanced). Further, even though Mr J may have been happy 
to rent for the time being, at their ages six years would have been a long time to be out of 
the housing market and I dont think either they or the advisor could have been sure they 
wouldnt change their mind, depending on house prices etc.
As such, it was  in my view  clearly inappropriate for the advisor to recommend they 
invested in a product which would make it practically impossible or financially very expensive 
to re-enter the housing market in a few years time, particularly for very little, if any, potential 
financial advantage. 
I am satisfied that the investigator fully explained why she felt the Premium Savings Account 
rate was the fairest basis for comparison. As I agree with all her arguments about this issue I 
will not repeat them.
Putting things right
HSBC must compare how much Mr and Mrs Js initial investment sum of £90,000 would 
have been worth on the date they surrendered the product/s if this money had been placed 
in HSBC Premium Savings Account (earning an initial 4.7% interest per annum) with the 
total surrender sum they received in 2008. If this shows a loss, it must pay this and add 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of this 
complaint, 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman