DRN-2190191
The complaint
Miss G complains that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans provided her with a 
loan which she says was unaffordable.
What happened
Buddy Loans provided Miss G with a loan as follows:
Loan Date taken Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountApproximate  
monthly  
repayment*
1 August 2017 60 £5,000 £198
Miss G mainly said that if Buddy Loans had checked properly before providing the loan it 
wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable for her.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld and she set 
out the steps she said Buddy Loans should take to put things right. 
Buddy Loans disagreed with our investigators view. It said that during the application 
process it conducted thorough underwriting checks which included identity, credit history, 
income verification and affordability. Buddy Loans said Miss Gs loan would not have been 
granted if she hadnt met its requirements. So it didnt agree that the loan was affordable and 
asked for an ombudsman to review the case. 
Miss G told us she was happy with what our investigator had said in her view letter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. Having done so, Ive come to the same view as our 
investigator and Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Miss Gs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Gs case, I have considered 
the following questions:
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Gs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in 
a sustainable way? If it did, did Buddy Loans then make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Buddy Loans asked Miss G about her income and expenditure. Buddy Loans checked 
Miss Gs income and was satisfied that it could rely on her receiving an income of around 
£1,850 as she had declared. After doing its own checks, which included obtaining 
information about Miss Gs credit history and taking into account statistical information about 
how much someone in Miss Gs position typically spent each month on basic essentials and 
also adding a contingency of £15 to cover any unforeseen spending or reduction in income, 
Buddy Loans worked out that Miss G would have disposable income of approximately £803.
I've taken into account what Buddy Loans has said about how it calculated Miss Gs 
disposable income before it agreed to lend to her. But, I dont think Buddy Loans made 
a fair lending decision when it lent to Miss G based on the information it had gathered.I say this because when I look through the credit search Buddy Loans carried out for 
this loan, I can see that it suggests that Miss G was already having serious problems 
managing her finances. Buddy Loans saw that Miss G had six defaulted accounts 
showing on her credit history  all within the previous 3 years with the oldest dating 
back to December 2014 and the most recent in December 2015. All the defaulted 
accounts related to accounts with telecommunications suppliers. The combined 
balances came to more than £2,000 and Buddy Loans saw that Miss G was paying £5 
per month to each one  so it was evident that it was going to take her a long time to 
clear this amount of outstanding debt.
In addition, its credit checks showed she was paying £5 each month towards an 
outstanding county court judgement that showed a balance of £754.
As well as this, Buddy Loans could see that Miss G had taken out a substantial 
unsecured loan (£4,000) with another high cost lender within the last 6 weeks or so  
she would have to make monthly repayments of £195 on that loan and it looked like 
she had yet to start paying it back. 
I dont think Buddy Loans thought carefully enough about what this credit history 
showed about Miss Gs overall financial situation, especially bearing in mind it had 
calculated that she had more than £800 spare cash each month which, to my mind, 
wouldve seemed at odds with what it saw on the credit checks it had carried out. 
I think Buddy Loans should have been concerned that these search results indicated 
that Miss G didnt seem to be making any real inroads into repaying her existing debt  
at just £5 per month to each one it looked likely she would be paying her defaulted 
debts for a long time to come. Buddy Loans was also aware from its checks that she 
had 11 active credit accounts already when she applied for this loan  and she had 
recently taken out the £4,000 loan and was now going to be borrowing a further 
expensive £5,000 loan. All this suggested that she had a continuing need for this sort 
of expensive credit. I dont think, based on what Buddy Loans had in front of it, I can 
fairly say that Buddy Loans saw enough to reasonably be satisfied that Miss G was 
going to be able to make the repayments for this loan in a sustainable way. 
I think that Buddy Loans shouldve done more in-depth checks. I dont think its checks 
were proportionate because, to my mind, the amount borrowed, the total repayments 
she would have to make for this loan and the length of the loan term all lead me to 
think, on balance, that Buddy Loans should have carried out a complete review of Miss 
Gs finances and done more to verify what she had told it  especially bearing in mind 
also what it saw on the credit checks it did carry out.
I've looked at bank statements provided by Miss G which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding Miss Gs overall financial situation at the time. I think, if Buddy Loans had 
done a proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that this 
loan was going to be sustainably affordable for Miss G. I can see that, far from having the 
amount of disposable income left over each month that Buddy Loans had calculated, in 
reality Miss G was mostly struggling to keep her bank account in credit at the end of the 
month. 
It is apparent that the limited repayments she was making on her outstanding credit debts 
was really all she could afford. Its difficult to see how she was going to be able to repay the 
£4,000 loan she had taken out in June 2017 in a sustainable way  or make the repayments 
on this loan without needing to borrow further. Certainly, it was clear that Miss G didnt have 
the amount of spare cash that Buddy Loans affordability check suggested. I think, had it done a proportionate check, it wouldve most likely realised that this loan 
wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for Miss G when she was already struggling to get 
through the month without needing to rely on credit, not making any real headway towards 
clearing her outstanding defaulted debts and she had other new debt that needed to be paid 
alongside this loan from Buddy Loans. 
I've taken into account that Miss G told Buddy Loans that the purpose of this loan was to pay 
off other debt.
Buddy Loans hasnt shown me it knew which debt was going to be repaid. Miss Gs recent 
borrowing track record suggested she was continuing to borrow  and couldnt afford to pay 
for that borrowing. The fact Miss G had taken out a recent large high-cost loan (which Buddy 
Loans could see from the credit checks it did) looks to me like a sign she was facing serious 
financial difficulties. Thinking about all of this information, I dont think Buddy Loans could 
reasonably have satisfied itself that providing its loan to Miss G wouldnt put her in a worse 
position by increasing her overall debts. Given her recent borrowing, there was a real risk 
that Miss G might use this loan to help her meet her immediate need to make loan 
repayments with the result this loan would simply add to her existing debt. 
I dont think Buddy Loans was able to safely say that using its loan to repay other debt 
wouldve helped Miss Gs overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable 
improvement in her financial situation  particularly keeping in mind that she was signing up 
to pay a loan which could cost her around £6,850 in interest over the next five years. 
So I dont think Buddy Loans shouldve provided this loan. 
As Miss G has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a 
loan that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a 
result of what Buddy Loans did wrong. So, I think Buddy Loans needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think Buddy Loans acted unfairly towards Miss G in 
any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. But she has paid interest and 
possibly charges on a loan that should not have been provided to her. In line with this 
Services approach, Miss G shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she borrowed. 
With this in mind, Buddy Loans should: 
 add up the total amount of money Miss G received as a result of being given 
the loan. The payments Miss G made should be deducted from this amount
 
if this results in Miss G having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Buddy Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss G bearing in mind the need 
to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussionsremove any adverse information placed on Miss Gs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans must give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Gs complaint and require Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman