DRN-2978572
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from TSB Bank plc. Hes unhappy with the 
delays and the service he experienced when he asked it to process a chargeback after his 
holiday was cancelled.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr H purchased a holiday using his TSB debit card. He paid a travel agent 
£2,610.86 for seven nights accommodation. 
In March 2020, the government advised against all unnecessary foreign travel and the 
country then went in to a full national lockdown and Mr H says the country that he was due 
to travel to, already had similar restrictions in place  and his holiday was cancelled. Mr H 
says he had great difficulty contacting the travel agent; his phone calls and emails went 
unanswered for some time before he was eventually offered a refund in the form of a credit 
voucher. Mr H didnt want a voucher so he contacted TSB to see whether he could seek 
reimbursement under the chargeback scheme. He told us:
On 29 April he contacted TSB to see whether he could make a claim under the 
chargeback scheme in respect of the money hed paid for his holiday which had now 
been cancelled;
the bank told him it couldnt raise a chargeback because the travel agent had already 
offered him a refund in the form of a credit voucher. And although he contacted TSB 
on several occasions over the next six weeks to ask it to reconsider its position, the 
bank insisted that it was unable to assist him further because hed already been 
offered a remedy to his problem;
in mid-July, the bank wrote to Mr H and explained it had now received updated 
guidance from VISA and would be in a position to raise a chargeback on his behalf 
and it asked for some additional details about the holiday. TSB also apologised for 
providing incorrect information to Mr H at the outset and it offered him £100 in 
recognition of the poor service it had provided;
he made a further complaint to TSB on 29 July. He was unhappy that the bank had 
failed to raise the chargeback; it had not responded to his emails; and the service he 
received from across TSB  the disputes team, the branch staff and the complaints 
team  was poor. Theyd all failed to help him and they wouldnt take any 
responsibility for the issues he was experiencing.
TSB upheld some aspects of Mr Hs first complaint. It acknowledged it had made some 
mistakes and it apologised for the inconvenience this had caused. TSB said it shouldnt have 
rejected Mr Hs request to raise a chargeback simply because hed been offered a credit 
voucher by the travel agent  the new guidance from VISA allowed it to raise a chargeback if 
it had confirmation that the merchant wouldnt offer a full cash refund. It explained that it only 
had one opportunity to raise a chargeback and it needed further information from Mr H 
before it would make a claim on his behalf.
TSB apologised for the poor service it had given Mr H; specifically, its failure to respond to 
his emails and it paid him £100 compensation which it credited to his account. It also said it 
would be happy to review any other expenses Mr H had incurred as a result of difficulties 
hed experienced.
TSB wrote to Mr H again in August 2020, and it acknowledged that although it had taken the 
correct approach to dealing with his chargeback request initially when hed been offered a 
credit voucher by the merchant, it said it shouldve raised a chargeback in July when it 
received revised guidance from VISA. It confirmed it had now raised a chargeback and it 
provided Mr H with timescales for resolution of this. And it offered Mr H a further £200 by 
way of an apology for the delays and poor service hed endured.
TSB told us its operations were badly affected by the pandemic and that all categories of 
dispute were very seriously delayed. It apologised for the inconvenience its customers 
experienced but said this had been outside its control; it had been dealing with a very high 
volume of disputes about cancelled flights and holidays and this had affected how quickly it 
could investigate these types of disputes.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that she was only looking at whether TSB should have done more to help Mr H get 
his money back.
She explained the chargeback process and said it can often take some time for a 
chargeback claim to be successful  this is because bank need to give suppliers time to 
investigate and say whether or not they agree to the refund, and if not, provide evidence to 
support their position.
She said she didnt think TSB acted fairly by not raising a chargeback initially  she said TSB 
could have and should have raised a chargeback for Mr H when he asked it for help. And the 
advice it had provided had been incorrect. She recognised that the incorrect advice wouldve 
caused Mr H a great deal of frustration, and she said had it not been for his persistence, he 
might not have successfully recovered his money. She considered the compensation that 
TSB had already paid Mr H - £300  and said she thought it was fair and she wouldnt ask 
the bank to do anything further.
Mr H disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says this doesnt take into 
account the amount of time, money, effort and stress he had to go through to get a solution.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. Mr H should note, 
however, that although I may not address each individual point that hes raised, I have given 
careful consideration to all of his submissions before arriving at my decision.
Having taken everything into consideration, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mr H received from TSB. This is because although Mr H disputed a payment hed made, both parties have now confirmed that a full refund was credited back to Mr Hs account in 
September 2020.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats VISAs.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for TSB to ask for a payment Mr H 
made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied 
by the company Mr H paid or they werent as described by the supplier.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Mr H has ultimately not been provided with the goods and 
services that he originally paid for  the holiday. And in normal circumstances, it would seem 
reasonable to expect TSB to raise a chargeback for him, as Im satisfied that this scenario is 
one that is covered within VISAs chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month  to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. But even so, in normal circumstances, Id 
have expected TSB to have resolved this chargeback sooner than it did.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mr H. 
Hed booked and paid a considerable sum for a holiday, and from what hes told us, his 
experience wouldve understandably caused him some anxiety. He had great difficulty 
making contact with the travel agent and then when at last he did  it would only offer him a 
credit voucher rather than a full refund.
But I cant hold TSB responsible for any of this because the initial problem was caused by 
the travel agent, and then compounded by the pandemic.
Mr H says that TSB is a major financial institution that has vast numbers of resources as 
their disposal and I agree. But I also need to take into account that these werent normal 
circumstances. This was an unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mr H first 
contacted TSB, dealing with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get 
money back as the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up 
issues which were relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, 
rules and guidance at a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges 
during this period.
But even so, Id have expected TSB to have handled Mr Hs claim better than it did. I say this 
because Ive read the communication exchanges between Mr H and TSB and, although TSB 
acted quickly in raising the chargeback once it had all the information it needed, I think it 
couldve better explained the process and the likely timescales to Mr H at the outset. 
Ive noted that TSB has already paid Mr H £300 in recognition of the mistakes it made and 
the poor service it provided when he first contacted it. And although I wouldve expected 
TSB to identify vulnerable customers who may need more immediate support and help, from 
the information I have, I dont think Mr H fell into this category.Mr B says the compensation hes been given isnt enough; he says hes spent in excess of 
100 hours to obtain a satisfactory resolution. Although I understand the frustration this 
mustve caused him, we dont usually make awards for a consumers time in dealing with a 
claim. This is because its part of a consumers responsibility when making a claim to pursue 
the issues to a conclusion.
So, for the reasons Ive given, I think £300 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint and I dont think TSB needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman