DRN-2568289
The complaint
Mr D complains that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited mis-sold him a life 
assurance policy.
At the time of sale, Quilter was trading as Positive Solutions. All references to Quilter will 
include Positive Solutions.
What happened
Mr D took out a term assurance policy (the policy) in March 2005 at the same time as taking 
out a mortgage with his wife. The Quilter adviser (the adviser) recommended the policy 
which provided a lump sum payment in the event of death or terminal illness  this 
recommendation met with Mr Ds objective of providing protection for his wife and family in 
the event of his death. The cost of cover was £31 each month and the sum payable was 
£132,695 initially but decreased in line with the outstanding mortgage balance during the 
benefit term. The policy also provided sufficient cover for debts that Mr D had at the time.
In 2007 Mr D cancelled the policy when he redeemed the mortgage. In 2019 he complained 
to Quilter. Initially Mr D thought he had Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) but Quilter 
confirmed the policy sold to him was for term assurance. Mr D said he considered the policy 
was mis-sold to him because the adviser said it was a mandatory part of the mortgage. He 
said he felt pressured into taking out the policy. He also thought his self-employed status 
meant he wouldnt be able to claim the sickness benefit which came with the policy.
Quilter didnt uphold the complaint. It said the fact find completed at the time of advice 
showed Mr D was married, with young children. It was recorded that a priority for him was to 
take care of his wife in the event of his death. So Quilter considered the recommendation 
was suitable. It also didnt think there was any evidence of its adviser telling Mr D the policy 
was a condition of the mortgage. Quilter noted the Waiver of Premium benefit, which would 
cover the cost of Mr Ds premiums if he became too ill to work, would pay out regardless of 
his self-employed status.
Our investigator didn't recommend upholding the complaint. In brief, she thought the 
recommendation was suitable and she didnt think there was any evidence to show Mr D had 
been misled by the adviser. 
Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter. In summary, he said:
He was self-employed so couldn't make a claim if he wanted to;
He was paying over £50 each month not £31;
The adviser told him he wouldnt get the mortgage without taking out the policy which 
was a lie.
 
Mr D asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made a number of points in support of this complaint. We are an informal service 
and our rules allow me to focus on what I consider relevant. So if theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored anything  I havent. Ive just focused my decision on 
what I think impacts on the outcome of the case.
Mr Ds main complaint is that he was misled by the adviser about the policy being a 
compulsory part of the mortgage. Mr D says it wasnt explained to him that it was optional. I 
acknowledge what Mr D has said, and this forms part of the evidence I have to consider. But 
I have to make a decision on a balance of probabilities  what is more likely than not to have 
happened  taking account of the evidence both parties have produced and giving what I 
consider to be the appropriate weight to different evidence. In this case, whilst I accept Mr D 
has told me what he believes happened, he is recalling what happened over fifteen years 
ago and his recollections from so long ago are unlikely to be reliable or complete. So Im not 
persuaded simply based on his memory of what happened that the adviser misled him.
I note the mortgage offer document that was sent to Mr D at or around the time of the 
advice, showed the only mandatory insurance required by the lender was buildings 
insurance. In this regard the lender said if Mr D was arranging his own insurance then he 
had to provide a copy of the policy schedule. Mr D wasnt asked for any other insurance 
document. There is nothing in the offer document that suggests the mortgage wouldnt have 
gone ahead until life cover had been taken out.
 
The adviser also completed a Your Personal Protection Planning document (the suitability 
report) based on the meeting he had with Mr D. In this document the adviser said he was 
recommending the policy because Mr D wanted his wife taken care of and not to have debts 
to pay in the event of his (Mr Ds) death. So there is nothing in the suitability report to 
suggest Mr D had to have the policy.
I also note that the adviser made another recommendation to take out critical illness cover. 
But Mr D decided not to go ahead with this cover as he said he wanted to consider this at a 
later date. I think this shows Mr D chose the policy he wanted not the one he believed he 
had to have. I consider this is evidence that Mr D wasnt put under pressure to accept the 
recommendations the adviser made to him.
So all in all, Im satisfied Mr D wasnt misled about the policy being optional. I think its made 
reasonably clear from the point of sale documents that he wasnt told he had to have the 
policy, but rather it was a recommendation which Mr D could chose to accept or reject.
In terms of whether the policy was suitable, its generally considered a good idea to have life 
cover for a mortgage although there may be circumstances where it might not be. In Mr Ds 
case, at the time of the advice he had a wife and young children. The policy recommended 
to him matched the amount and term of his mortgage, as well as providing enough cover for 
outstanding loans Mr D had at the time. So the policy wouldve prevented Mr Ds wife from 
being put under a significant financial burden if hed died or became terminally ill. 
Further, an assessment of whether the policy was affordable was carried out and it was 
agreed that based on Mr Ds situation, the premiums were within his budget. Mr D says he 
was paying around £50 each month. The suitability report shows the cost was £31. The cost 
of cover may have increased following the application to the insurer following its underwriting 
decision. Nonetheless, even if this increased the cost of cover to £50 each month, I can see 
Mr Ds disposable income at the time was sufficient to make these payments.In light of Mr Ds particular circumstances at the time of the advice, Im satisfied that on 
balance, the recommendation to take out the policy, was a suitable one to make.
Mr D says the policy would not have paid out if hed become ill because he was self-
employed. But I dont think this is the case here. The suitability report stated that: The plan 
will pay a lump sum if you die or suffer a terminal illness within the benefit term which could 
be used to part or fully pay off your mortgage. Similarly, the policy key facts also said the 
cover was payable if Mr D became terminally ill or if he died. So Im satisfied Mr Ds 
employment status would not have prevented a successful claim.
I note as part of the policy Mr D had Waiver of Premium cover. The cost of this cover only 
represented a small proportion of the monthly premiums. This benefit was paid if Mr D was 
unable to work during the term of the cover due to illness or injury. If this happened Mr Ds 
premiums would still be paid if he was sick for longer than a deferred period of thirteen 
weeks. From what I can see, this cover would pay out if the condition of being seriously ill 
was met regardless of Mr Ds employment status.
I think when Mr D talks about the policy not paying out due to his self-employed status, he 
may be referring to PPI policies  this is what he initially complained about. PPI was 
sometimes advertised as a way of protecting the policyholder against the risk of losing their 
job, so would be payable if they became unemployed. Some self-employed people were sold 
the insurance, despite the fact the terms of some policies meant they would not actually be 
covered. But I dont consider these circumstances apply in this case  Mr D was sold a life 
assurance policy which became payable if he became terminally ill or died. His employment 
status had no bearing on whether a claim would be successful or not.
So for all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with this outcome, Im 
not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman