DRN-2955852
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with what Fairmead Insurance Limited did after he provided a positive
barristers opinion on a legal expenses claim hed made to it. 
What happened
Mr C has a dispute with a neighbour about a loft conversion and extension at their property.
He first contacted Fairmead about this in 2018 and claimed for legal costs to obtain an
injunction against the neighbour and other remedies for damage to his property, trespass
and nuisance.
Fairmead asked one of its panel solicitors to consider whether the claim had reasonable
prospects of success (as required by the policy terms). The solicitors didnt think it did.
Mr Cs complaint about that was considered by another ombudsman in March 2019. She
was satisfied Fairmead was entitled to rely on the legal opinion it had been provided with.
But she said if Mr C provided a contrary legal opinion Fairmead should consider that.
There were further discussions between Mr C and Fairmead during which it confirmed it
would reimburse Mr C the reasonable cost of a barristers opinion if this said his claim did
have reasonable prospects of success. Mr C obtained a positive opinion from a barrister and
provided that to Fairmead in December 2019.
Fairmead were concerned the opinion had been reached without expert evidence. As the
previous panel solicitors said they were no longer able to act it asked an alternative panel
firm to carry out a prospects assessment of their own. That was provided in March. It
concluded some elements of the claim did have reasonable prospects of success but expert
evidence was required to assess the value of these. The solicitors asked for some additional
information from Mr C and said theyd seek authorisation from Fairmead to obtain expert
evidence and for further legal costs.
Mr C then said he wanted to appoint his own solicitor. Fairmead didnt agree to that as it said
legal proceedings werent yet being issued. In June it responded to the panel solicitors and
said it was for Mr C to provide any documentation required in support of his claim. In
response to complaints made by Mr C it accepted there had been some delay in refunding
the fee for the barristers opinion and other communication issues. It offered to pay Mr C
£200.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable of Fairmead to ask panel solicitors to assess the
barristers opinion Mr C provided. And he didnt think it did anything wrong in saying Mr C
couldnt appoint his own solicitor. But he thought the compensation for poor communication
should be increased to a total of £400.
Fairmead agreed to do so. Mr C remained unhappy. In summary he said:
Fairmead was wrong to ask panel solicitors to carry out a further prospects assessment 
when hed provided counsels opinion which confirmed the claim did have reasonable 
prospects of success;
The conditions for him to be able to choose his own solicitor had been met and he drew 
attention to the law and a recent court judgement relating to this;
Fairmead didnt take reasonable steps when he brought concerns about the actions of 
the panel solicitor to its attention and wrongly told the panel solicitor to stop carrying out 
further work on the claim;
There had been failings by Fairmead in how it handled his claim since December 2019 
for example there had been delay in paying for counsels opinion and he was wrongly 
told the claim was suitable for the Small Claims Court.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
Was it reasonable for Fairmead to ask panel solicitors to carry out a further prospects
assessment?
Legal expenses insurance policies generally contain a requirement that a claim should have
reasonable prospects of success. Mr Cs is no different; it says we will pay costs as long as
the administrator considers that your claim has prospects of success. Prospects of success
is defined as it being more likely than not that you will recover damages (or other legal
remedy) or make a successful defence.
In this case panel solicitors initially concluded the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of
success. But Mr C was then able to provide a positive barristers opinion. Ive reviewed that
opinion which does say that in relation to an aspect of the potential claim (about a chimney)
further evidence would be required on how it had been constructed. However, the overall
conclusion was that Mr C stands very good (over 75%) prospect of successfully bringing a
claim in trespass and nuisance against [the third party] which will result in recovering an
award of damages which are likely on any basis to exceed £10,000 and may be significantly
more.
So the barrister was satisfied the claim did have reasonable prospects of success. And I
note in 2019 Fairmead told Mr C in a final response letter that if he obtained a barristers
opinion which said the prospects are 51% or above we would be able to reimburse you for
the reasonable cost of the opinion and reinstate cover for this claim
I appreciate the barrister did suggest further evidence (from a surveyor) was required to
establish liability for issues relating to the chimney. This does appear to be relevant to the
prospects of success of that aspect of the claim so I think it would be reasonable for Mr C to
provide that evidence. But I dont see why that would have prevented progress being made
on the other aspects of the claim. And I dont think it was appropriate for Fairmead to ask for
another prospects assessment from panel solicitors (who dont have equal legal standing to
a barrister).
Should Fairmead have allowed Mr C to appoint his own solicitor?
Mr C asked if he could appoint his own solicitors when he provided the barristers opinion on
his case in December 2019. I note he reiterated that request in subsequent emails (after the
panel solicitors had concluded aspects of his claim did have reasonable prospects of
success). But I dont think Fairmead did anything wrong in declining to agree to that request.
Mr Cs policy says at any time before the administrator agrees that legal proceedings need
to be issued, the administrator will choose a professional adviser for you. It goes on to say
that a policyholder can appoint their own solicitor where the administrator agrees that legal
proceedings have to be initiated or if there is a conflict of interest.In this case I dont think the lawyers involved had decided it would be necessary to issue
proceedings to progress the legal case. I appreciate Mr Cs solicitors felt the next step would
be to issue a letter before claim but that isnt the same as issuing legal proceedings. It might
put someone on notice that court proceeding could be brought against them but it doesnt
form part of those proceedings; its an attempt to resolve the dispute before it reaches the
court process. It would only be if these negotiations failed it might then become necessary to
issue proceedings. So under the terms of the policy I dont think Mr C did have the right to
choose his own solicitor.
Mr C has drawn attention to the law on this matter (which Im aware of) and in particular a
recent ruling of the European Court of Justice which related to the EU directive on the free
choice of lawyer in legal expenses insurance policies. Given the date of the ruling I
understand that would still be relevant to UK law. And I appreciate as part of its judgement
the court did say any stage, even a preliminary stage, which is capable of leading to
proceedings before a judicial body must be regarded as falling within the term
proceedings.
The relevant regulations say that under a legal expenses insurance contract an insured shall
be free to choose their own lawyer where thats necessary to defend, represent or serve
their interest in any inquiry or proceedings. But the court judgement Mr Cs referenced
related primarily to whether judicial mediation constituted proceedings within the meaning of
the relevant directive and how that applied within the member state concerned (which wasnt
the UK). So Im not clear it would have a read across here.
Even if it does have a broader application I dont think thats necessarily out of line with our
long standing approach to these matters which is that a policyholder should be allowed to
choose their own solicitors from the point that legal proceedings need to be started. The
position might be different if there were exceptional circumstances that apply to the case or if
theres a conflict of interest. But having looked at the case Mr C wants to bring I dont think
that applies here; the claim doesnt, for example, appear to be particularly complex.
However, I appreciate that when Fairmead wrote to Mr C in January 2020 it did say the
previous panel solicitors had withdrawn because there was a conflict of interest. I queried
that with it. Its told me that was an error and the actual reason was because the relationship
between the parties had broken down. I think thats supported by other evidence from the
time so Im satisfied the panel solicitors didnt withdraw because there was a conflict of
interest.
But in any case, while Im required to take into account the law, ultimately my role is to
decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ill
go on to explain, while I dont think Fairmead were wrong to say that Mr C didnt have the
right to choose his own solicitors, I do think it should now allow him to do so. Thats not
because Ive determined he has the right to do that but because I think its a fair way of
resolving the complaint hes brought to us.Did Fairmead take reasonable steps in response to the concerns Mr C raised about the
panel solicitors?
I understand Mr Cs key concerns here (which arent covered elsewhere in this decision) are
that when he told Fairmead the claim was being assessed by a paralegal it didnt respond to
him about that. I can see that Mr C did raise concerns about this at the start of February
2020. However, I can also see that Fairmead responded to this point at the end of February
(and apologised at the time for the delay in doing so). In response it explained that any
advice provided would be reviewed by a qualified solicitor prior to its release to ensure the
advice was sound.
I dont think that was unreasonable; wed generally accept that an assessment could be
carried out by a paralegal as long as theyre working under the supervision of a suitably
qualified and experienced lawyer. However, as Ive already explained I dont think it was
appropriate in itself for the panel solicitors to be asked to carry out a further prospects
assessment on a claim which a barrister had already concluded did have reasonable
prospects of success in most aspects.
Were there other issues with how it handled the claim from December 2019?
Mr C says there were delays by Fairmead in agreeing to pay his barristers costs. I think
Fairmead has already accepted that is the case so I dont think this is in dispute. Its also
accepted that its communication with him should have been better. And I can see in the
letter he was sent in January 2020 it did say that this dispute was suitable for the Small
Claims Court. But as Mr Cs barrister had by then provided an opinion which said damages
could significantly exceed £10,000 (the small claims limit) I dont think that was correct and I
appreciate that will have caused Mr C understandable confusion about how his claim was
being handled.
I also note that in the assessment the solicitors carried out at the start of March (and which I
understand was copied to Fairmead) they said theyd be seeking a decision from it on the
provision of indemnity toward the further legal costs to be incurred and, indeed, the costs to
obtain expert evidence as detailed above. I can see the solicitors did subsequently chase
for a response to that request but it doesnt appear that any response was provided until
June when Fairmead said it was for Mr C to provide documentation in support of his claim.
So there does appear to have been some delay here.
And while I accept it was for Mr C to obtain the evidence to show that his claim had
reasonable prospects of success it doesnt appear a clear answer was given on what
indemnity would be provided for those aspects of the claim where it had been established
that was the case. In fact Fairmead told the panel solicitors to stop carrying out any work on
the claim while this complaint was considered by our service. I dont see why that was
necessary.
Putting things right
As Ive identified I do think that Fairmead has got a number of things wrong in relation to this
claim. Mr C has suggested that but for this his claim would now be further forward than is in
fact the case. And while its difficult to say exactly what progress would have been made but
for those failings I think in broad terms hes most likely right about that.
Given the issues Ive identified and the delays these are likely to have caused to progress
(and in order to move matters on) I think it would be appropriate for Fairmead to now allow
Mr C to appoint his own solicitors to deal with the matter. It will of course be entitled to agree
terms with that solicitor in relation to, for example, the hourly rate to be paid.I also think Mr C has provided an opinion which shows this is a claim which in most aspects
has reasonable prospects of success. I appreciate that further expert reports may be
required to establish the exact value of his claim but I think thats something that should be
covered under the terms of his policy. However, if there remain outstanding issues as to the
prospects of the claim (which does appear to be the case in relation to the chimney) I think it
would be for Mr C to provide the necessary evidence here.
I appreciate the delays to the process so far will also have caused Mr C understandable
distress and led to confusion about what was happening with the claim. However, on
balance, I think the £400 our investigator recommended is the right figure to reflect the
impact of that on Mr C.
Responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead was concerned allowing Mr C to instruct his own solicitor might lead to further 
delay while terms were negotiated with that firm. It also said that it wouldnt expect a solicitor 
to take on a case and rely on a prospects assessment carried out by someone else. It said it 
was a standard part of the process when taking on new instructions that a firm should carry 
out its own assessment. 
Mr C also responded. He accepted the provisional decision as a reasonable decision that 
would allow him to move forward with his claim. However, he raised further issues in relation 
to the meaning of proceedings in the light of the recent ECJ judgement which he thought 
were worthy of further consideration. He also queried the position on payment if further 
expert evidence was required in support of this claim. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Fairmead will need to discuss terms of appointment with Mr Cs solicitor and 
those discussions may not conclude immediately. But I made clear in my provisional 
decision that Fairmead would be entitled to agree terms with Mr Cs solicitor and he 
accepted what I said on that basis. So it remains my view that Fairmead should allow him to 
do that. If Mr C would nevertheless prefer to proceed with a panel solicitor I think that option 
should also be open to him.
Ive noted what Fairmead has said about a new solicitor needing to satisfy themselves a 
claim has reasonable prospects of success. I understand that. My concern in this case was 
that it appeared to have asked the panel firm to review the barristers opinion and decide 
whether that was correct or not. Thats contrary to our normal approach and indeed what it 
told Mr C when it provided him with advice about this. 
Having said that I appreciate the requirement a claim has reasonable prospects of success 
is an ongoing one and a new firm taking on a claim would want to satisfy itself that remained 
the case. But if there hadnt been a material change in the evidence available I dont think it 
would be unreasonable for a firm to give significant weight to a barristers assessment of 
prospects when doing so (given a barristers opinion generally has higher legal standing). In 
any event for the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision it remains my 
view that in this case it would be appropriate for Fairmead to allow Mr C to instruct his own 
solicitor (subject to normal terms of appointment) if thats what he wants to do. I also note the further comments Mr C has made about the ECJ case. But as I said in my 
provisional decision that judgement primarily to whether judicial mediation constituted 
proceedings within the meaning of the relevant directive and how that applied within the 
member state concerned (which wasnt the UK). 
I accept it could nevertheless have a broader application but Im still not persuaded thats 
necessarily out of line with our long standing approach to these matters which is that a 
policyholder should normally be allowed to choose their own solicitors from the point that 
proceedings need to be started. In any event while Im required to take into account the law 
ultimately my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case. And for the reasons Ive explained I think that it would be fair for Fairmead to now 
allow Mr C to choose his own solicitor.
Mr C also queried who should pay for further reports that might be required. If those reports 
are required to establish prospects of success for the outstanding elements of the claim (for 
example in relation to the chimney) I think that would be for Mr C to provide. If the reports 
are to support the elements of his claim which Fairmead has agreed have prospects of 
success I think they should be funded by Fairmead in line with the terms of his policy. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Fairmead Insurance Limited will need to put things 
right by allowing Mr C to appoint his own solicitor to deal with the matter (subject to agreeing 
terms with that solicitor in relation to, for example, the hourly rate to be paid). It will also need 
to pay Mr C £400 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman