DRN-3515879
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. It is unhappy with 
the service it has received from them since the end of the relationship with its previous 
financial adviser.
The complaint is being brought by Mr H and Mrs M who are directors of G. For ease of 
reading, I will only refer to Mr H. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows: 
Mr H complained to Aviva on Gs behalf as he was unhappy with the service it had 
received since the relationship with its previous financial adviser ended. 
He was unhappy with the limitations on the Aviva platform for orphaned clients 
(clients without an attached adviser) and felt that G should have been made aware 
earlier of its options, any specific investment limitations and their implications. This 
would have allowed it to review its position and consider its options e.g. engaging 
another financial adviser or moving his investments to another platform provider. 
The delay in receiving the information resulted in lost time, missed opportunities and 
had cost G a lot of money to hold investments on the Aviva platform. 
He also thought Aviva should have done more to question the actions of Gs previous 
adviser e.g. the conversion of investments into cash.
He thought that Aviva should be making it easier for G to invest its outstanding cash. 
The investment process for orphaned clients was protracted and cumbersome and 
wasnt conducive to timely and opportunistic investment. 
G was being charged fees of 0.15% when previously it was 0.13% with the adviser. 
This was unfair and was too high for the service G was receiving which was simply 
an electronic investment storage facility. 
G couldnt deal in investment trusts and exchange traded funds. Mr H thought G 
should be able to trade these instruments at its own risk in the same way as it was 
allowed to trade traditional funds.
He wanted a refund of all the monies G had paid since the end of the relationship 
with the adviser and wanted compensation for not being able to trade freely. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. They explained that as an orphan client, G didnt 
benefit from any discounts which would have been negotiated by the adviser. An 
adviser would also have done most of the administrative work and the higher charges 
reflected the extra work required of Aviva to make sure customers were aware of all 
options. 
They appreciated Gs frustration in trading on a non-advised basis and accepted that 
it extended the timescales to trade. They also acknowledged the concerns it had 
raised about the previous adviser but explained that the adviser was an independent 
entity to Aviva and therefore they couldnt comment on his actions. They thought they 
could have been clearer in their correspondence and paid G £100 in compensation. 
Mr H didnt accept their findings and brought the complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Aviva hadnt breached the 
terms of the agreement they had with G. He noted Gs concerns but thought the 
changes in fees and limitations that would apply were set out in a letter Aviva had 
sent to G in September 2020. And while Avivas processes regarding making trades 
differed from other providers, that didnt mean that they were treating G unfairly. He 
acknowledged that they couldve responded sooner on some occasions and been 
clearer in some of their communications but thought that their offer of £100 was fair 
compensation.
Mr H didnt agree and said he believed Aviva could have looked after G better. He 
thought it should have been provided with an orphan client pack after the end of the 
relationship with the adviser. 
He didnt think that the investigator should have relied on a letter that had been 
allegedly been sent but hadnt been received. Hed spent considerable effort trying to 
engage with Aviva but found it to be an onerous process and thought they needed to 
have explained earlier that once a transfer had been started then further trading was 
not possible. 
He also thought Aviva should have done more to invest Gs cash. The impact of 
Avivas actions was serious and their offer of £100.00 was inadequate and he wanted 
the investigator to reconsider his assessment of the offer.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will go on to explain why. 
But Id firstly like to say that I appreciate the strength of feeling regarding this complaint. Id 
like to assure Mr H that Ive read and considered everything hes told us. 
Im aware Ive summarised the complaint points in less detail than he has, but this simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service. I note that Mr H has raised a number of issues 
with Aviva and Id like to clarify that this complaint is solely about the poor service G has 
received on its account. 
This service isnt the regulator, that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Our 
service therefore doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. Broadly speaking, we wont interfere with a 
commercial decision. Our role here is to look at what happened in the circumstances of this complaint and check that Aviva followed their rules and procedures  as well as those set by 
the regulator and any relevant industry guidance and good practice - and applied them fairly. 
Mr H has said that Aviva should have done more to question the actions of Gs previous 
adviser  especially the conversion of Gs investments to cash. However, Im not persuaded 
that they should have. The terms of the account G held said We will not apply any discretion 
when dealing on Your behalf nor accept liability for any losses, direct or consequential, 
which You may realise as a result of the Investment decisions made by You or in conjunction 
with Your Adviser or DIM. 
Therefore, I dont think they had a responsibility to review or comment on the actions of the 
previous adviser. This also means that I dont think they had a responsibility to invest the 
cash that G held without any instruction being given.
The rest of Gs complaint centres around the changes to its Aviva account when the 
relationship with the adviser ended and the impact of these changes. Ive therefore 
considered if and when G was made aware of the changes. From what Ive seen Aviva sent 
the directors of G a letter each on 25 September 2020. The letter said: 
We have been informed by your financial adviser that they are no longer dealing with your 
Platform account. Weve stopped paying the adviser charge you set up with them, so you will 
need to find out whether there are any outstanding fees. 
You have two options now. You can appoint a new financial adviser to deal with your 
account, or you can choose to manage your account yourself. Depending on which option 
you choose, your account charges could change so its important you consider your options 
before making a decision.
The letter went on to explain how accounts could be managed - it said: 
Some of our investments are only available through financial advisers. This means there be 
some assets which you cant invest in if youre managing your account yourself. These are: 
 Structured products
 Offshore funds
 Shares and other exchange traded investments
 Model Portfolios 
Any existing investments youve got in them will remain, and you can sell the assets you 
already hold, but you wont be able to buy any more.
If youre investing money from a direct debit into a model portfolio or assets which are no 
longer available, well start applying it as 100% cash. You can choose new assets to invest 
this money in using your online Platform account. You should bear in mind the interest rate 
you receive on cash investments can be lower than your plan charges. This means the value 
of your money could do down if its invested in cash long term.
Its also important you know that any existing arrangement you have in place to regularly 
rebalance your portfolio will be cancelled.
I think the letter was clear about the changes that would be made to the account, including 
the change to the charging structure. I appreciate the point Mr H has made about not receiving the letter but the evidence Ive seen shows that both directors were sent a letter so 
I dont think I can fairly say that Aviva didnt make G aware of the changes. 
Ive also thought about what Mr H has said regarding the processes that Aviva have in place 
for orphaned clients and the limitations on trading once a transfer to another provider 
started. I appreciate the points hes made, but as Ive said above, it isnt for this service to 
interfere in commercial decisions. Avivas processes may differ to that of other businesses, 
but I dont think its unreasonable for a business to use their commercial judgement to set 
their own processes. 
I also appreciate that Aviva could have made the trading restrictions clearer earlier than they 
did. But I think that even if they had done, its more likely than not that Mr H would still have 
made the decision to move Gs account to another provider. I say this because of the many 
concerns Mr H has raised about Avivas processes and charges  I dont think a trading 
restriction would have made him keep Gs holdings on their platform. Therefore, he still 
wouldnt have been able to trade while the transfer was pending so I dont think I can fairly 
say that Aviva have caused G to suffer a loss.
That being said, I think that Aviva caused G inconvenience by not being clearer about the 
challenges it would face when trying to invest regular monthly amounts. There were also 
delays in providing information it had requested. But having taken everything into account I 
think the £100 that theyve paid is fair compensation for the inconvenience they have 
caused.
So in summary, while I appreciate the concerns that have been raised, I dont think Aviva 
have treated G unfairly. From what Ive seen, theyve kept to the terms of the account that G 
held with them and while theyve caused G inconvenience, the compensation theyve paid is 
fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman