DRN-3720787
The complaint
Mr M complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) applied a hidden charge following his 
cash deposit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
The evidence available demonstrates that on 15 December 2021 Starling sent Mr M 
notification that the terms and conditions of his account were changing.
The relevant terms (available online) stated that beyond £1000 each calendar year, 
depositing money into Mr Ms account through the Post Office Counter Service 
would incur a 0.7% fee of the amount deposited.
Im satisfied Starlings terms were clear on how this charge applied, and that Starling 
notified Mr M via its app months before the terms changed.
I cant agree with Mr M that he was notified in a hidden menu - looking at the 
evidence available Starling notified Mr M via its app, under the notifications section. I 
think its reasonable to expect messages to appear in this area, and Starling have 
demonstrated how a notification wouldve also appeared on Mr Ms main phone 
interface when this message was first delivered.
Mr M feels Starlings reliance on mobile app notifications isnt sufficient  and that 
other banks would send a letter in such instances. But Starling Bank is a digital bank 
and its terms and conditions state it will communicate by either text, email, app or 
letter. Its app is also listed on its website as a requirement to open an account. 
Ultimately, its up to Starling how it chooses to communicate with customers, 
provided it uses one of the agreed communication methods. Im satisfied Starling 
sent the message to Mr M regarding the changes in line with its terms and 
conditions.
Mr M has also explained that because of how easy it is to turn off and miss smart 
phone notifications, Starling should rely on other methods to communicate. But Im 
not convinced that it would be fair to hold Starling responsible for the settings Mr M 
has set on his own phone. Ive also not seen any evidence to suggest Mr M stated 
any alternative communication preference prior to the notification being sent.
Im satisfied the terms of Mr Ms account were clear about the charges hed incur, 
and that he was fairly notified. And Im not persuaded that Starling has acted 
unreasonably when applying the charge in question as it has followed its terms and 
conditions. As I think Starling acted fairly, I wont be asking it to do any more.
For these reasons, my decision is to not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman