DRN-3824358
The complaint
The estate of Ms S complains about the way that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled 
a medical expenses claim she made on a travel insurance policy.
Ms S estate is represented by Ms E.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Im not going to set 
them out in detail. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
Ms S was on holiday with Ms E. Unfortunately, on 4 May 2022, Ms S was admitted to 
hospital after suffering a suspected stroke. Ms E got in touch with IPAs medical assistance 
team to make a claim on Ms S policy. Ms Ss treating doctors unfortunately discovered that 
Ms S had a mass in her chest and recommended that she should be repatriated to the UK 
for treatment.
IPA told Ms E that it would need medical information, both from the treating hospital and 
from Ms S GP, before it could confirm cover. While IPA looked into arranging repatriation to 
a UK hospital for Ms S by air ambulance, it says it didnt receive all of the medical 
information it needed until 11 May 2022. 
Unfortunately, by this point, Ms S had developed an infection and was no longer fit to fly. 
Sadly, she passed away a few days later in hospital abroad.
Ms E was very unhappy with the way IPA had handled Ms S claim and she complained.
IPA felt it had made appropriate requests for information and that it wasnt responsible for 
the delays in the provision of information. But it agreed that it hadnt kept Ms E updated with 
what was happening with the claim and so it offered £200 compensation.
Ms E remained unhappy with IPAs position and so she asked us to look into this complaint.
Our investigator thought the delays in IPA being unable to confirm cover were down to 
reasons outside of its control. He thought it had attempted to move things along in a timely 
way. He concluded IPA had already made a fair offer of compensation.
Ms E disagreed. In brief, she said shed felt let down by IPA, which shed been told had been 
experiencing staff shortages. She felt that Ms S could have come home as planned on 9 
May 2022 and that the claim ought to have been treated as urgent.
So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Ms E, whilst I think IPA could have 
handled some things better than it did, Im not telling it to do anything more and Ill explain 
why.
First, Id like to offer Ms E and her family my sincere condolences for the sad loss of Ms S. I 
dont doubt what a very upsetting time this has been for Ms E and I sympathise with her 
position. At the outset though, I must make it clear that while Ms E was a third-party 
representative of Ms S during her hospital admission and is now a representative of Ms S 
estate, Ms E is not herself an insured person under this policy. That means she has no 
contract with IPA and it wasnt responsible for providing Ms E with any particular standard of 
claims handling or assistance. IPAs contract was with Ms S. Therefore, while I appreciate 
Ms E has told us how IPAs handling of the claim made her feel, I cant reasonably award 
her any compensation directly. Im limited to considering what trouble and upset Ms S may 
have been caused by any errors IPA made and whether compensation for those errors is 
accordingly due to her estate.
Id add too that our role isnt to punish or fine the businesses we cover. Thats because were 
not the industry regulator. So whilst I understand how strongly Ms E feels that IPA let Ms S 
down, I cant make any award of punitive damages.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive carefully considered whether IPA treated Ms S fairly and reasonably.
Its clear that on 4 May 2022, Ms S was admitted to hospital as an emergency, after suffering 
a suspected stroke. Due to data protection rules, Ms E couldnt be confirmed as having 
authority to deal with IPA on Ms S behalf until the following day. I can see from IPAs notes 
that it did record Ms S condition as urgent, which I hope reassures Ms E on this point. IPA 
required a medical report from the treating hospital, as well as Ms S medical history. This is 
standard procedure in medical assistance claims and I dont find it was unreasonable for IPA 
to want to satisfy itself that Ms S claim was covered before it confirmed it would pay for 
repatriation. And I can see that a medical report was requested on the same day.
The medical report appears to have been reviewed on 6 May 2022. But IPAs notes say that 
it appeared to be generic in nature and didnt mention a mass. So it said it needed further 
medical information from the treating doctor about Ms S condition. Again, I think this was a 
reasonable position for IPA to take. 
In the meantime, IPA told Ms E, on the following day, that it was in the middle of requesting 
Ms S medical records. I can see that a formal request wasnt made to the GP for those 
records until 9 May 2022. IPA says that this delay was because it hadnt received a release 
of information form it needed to request Ms S medical history. It says it didnt receive this 
form until 9 May 2022. I note that this particular event isnt accounted for in IPAs claims 
notes. But while the notes dont specifically refer to waiting for this form as the reason for 
any delay, it does tally up with the timeline of events. And there are suggestions in the notes 
that IPA was on the case with the GP. I can see though that throughout the afternoon of 9 
May 2022, IPA did make attempts to chase-up the GP and obtain Ms S records.
Ultimately, Ms E obtained GP information from the GP directly and sent it on to IPA. 
Unfortunately, the notes appear to have been a summary and not the information IPA 
required. This meant that IPA needed to request further medical evidence on 10 May 2022. 
Thats because it appeared from the medical evidence that, some time before she travelled, 
Ms S had undergone tests for symptoms which could have been caused by the symptoms 
shed presented with abroad. So I dont think it was unfair for IPA to ask the GP for further 
information about those tests before agreeing cover. The additional information appears to 
have been reviewed on 11 May 2022 and it was at this point that cover was confirmed. Im satisfied, based on what Ive seen, that had Ms S been fit to fly at this point, its likely she 
would have been repatriated.
Sadly, by this time, Ms S condition had deteriorated and she was no longer fit to fly. I dont 
doubt how very upsetting this was for both Ms S and Ms E  and Ive borne in mind that Ms 
E has told us how much Ms S wanted to return to the UK for treatment. But based on what 
Ive seen, I simply dont think I could fairly or reasonably find that IPA caused such 
unreasonable delays that it prevented Ms S from being repatriated to the UK whilst shed still 
been well enough to fly. It seems to have been dependent on the provision of third-party 
information to confirm cover and arrange repatriation. The evidence suggests that IPA 
requested and reviewed that information in a timely way. It progressed the claim once it was 
in a position to do so. And I dont think it can be held responsible for any delay in the GP 
providing the evidence IPA needed to assess whether or not the claim was covered, or in 
any delay in the provision of a release of information form. I accept Ms E may have been told 
that there were staff shortages, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that this had any material 
impact on IPAs handling of the claim.
IPA does recognise that there are things it could have done better. It could have kept Ms E 
better updated about what was happening with the claim, which meant that Ms E couldve 
consequently kept Ms S updated. But it seems to me that the £200 compensation IPA has 
already offered is a fair and reasonable award to recognise the upset Ms S was caused by 
IPAs failure to keep Ms E updated. Its open to Ms E to accept this award should she 
choose to do so.
Overall, I do have a great deal of sympathy with the position Ms S and Ms E found 
themselves in. But Im not telling IPA to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that IPA has already made a fair offer 
to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms S 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman