The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (T/A Halifax) didnt properly pursue a chargeback 
request on his behalf.
What happened
On 2 February 2019 Mr S rented a car abroad using a company that Ill refer to as E in this 
decision. He provided E with the details of his Halifax credit card, which were required as 
security so any damage or additional charges could be debited on the vehicle's return.
Mr S collected his hire vehicle at 12:52 pm on 2 February 2019 and returned in at 16:57 pm 
on 7 February 2019. He said the vehicle was returned undamaged and was checked by two 
of Es employees, who didnt raise any concerns about the condition in which it had been 
returned. 
Mr S said E didnt give him any check-in documentation but he was shown a handheld 
device, which confirmed the car had been returned with no damage and a full tank of fuel. Mr 
S said he was informed some additional costs would be charged due to toll charges. 
The following morning, Mr S received an email stating the vehicle's rear light had been 
damaged. E asked him to complete an incident form. It also sent him photographs of the 
damage. But the number plate of the vehicle couldnt be seen on the images and they were 
dated 9 February 2019. Mr S responded to Es email explaining that he disputed this 
damage had been caused while the vehicle was in his custody.
On 1 March 2019 Mr S noticed his credit card had been charged £152.63 by E. The 
transaction date was 27 February 2019. Mr S contacted Halifax to flag the transaction as 
fraudulent and the money was returned to Mr S, on 3 March 2019, while Halifax commenced 
its chargeback process.  
A few weeks later, Halifax contacted Mr S for further information about the car hire. Mr S 
explained that he hadnt returned the vehicle damaged and provided it with a copy of the 
email disputing what E had said. He drew Halifaxs attention to some of the terms and 
conditions in Es hire agreement, which he said supported him. But Halifax wanted to see 
check out and check in documentation for the vehicle and any photographs showing the 
condition in which it had been returned.
After Halifax had investigated Mr S transaction it explained E had provided evidence 
showing it had been entitled to claim the money. It therefore re-debited the money from Mr 
S account. Mr S wasnt happy about this. He objected to paying for damage that had been 
discovered after the period of hire had ended. He said this was contrary to the terms and 
conditions he had signed. And he felt Halifax had looked at the wrong terms and conditions 
relating to his vehicle hire. He also thought it had failed to question the reliability of the 
evidence E had provided. So, he complained to Halifax.
DRN-1474495In its final response to Mr S complaint Halifax told him E had provided documentation 
confirming the damage and that it said had been caused during the rental period. And it said 
it had used the correct terms and conditions, which had been signed by Mr S. So Halifax told 
Mr S it was satisfied E had shown it was entitled to the money it had claimed and it didnt 
uphold his complaint.
Mr S disagreed with the content of Halifaxs final response letter. So, he referred his 
complaint to our service. By this time E had refunded the money Halifax had re-debited from 
Mr S account. But he wanted our service to review how Halifax had dealt with his 
chargeback request. 
Our investigator assessed the information Mr S and Halifax had provided but they didnt 
uphold his complaint. Overall, they thought Halifax had followed the chargeback rules 
properly. They didnt think it had acted unreasonably and werent persuaded it needed to do 
anymore here. But Mr S disagreed and asked an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is brought against Halifax. It isnt about E or the actions it took because that 
doesnt fall within our jurisdiction. So, I dont have the power to comment on whether E acted 
fairly in claiming Mr S had caused damage to the vehicle he hired. 
My role is to assess whether I think Halifax made a mistake, or treated Mr S unfairly in 
dealing with his chargeback request, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having 
thought carefully about everything he and Halifax have said, Im afraid to say that I dont 
think it did. I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can 
understand the reasons behind my decision.
While Ive read and considered all the information provided by Mr S and Halifax, Ill 
concentrate my decision on what I think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I can see our investigator explained how the chargeback process works and the role a bank 
plays. But, Id like to reiterate that information for Mr S benefit.
The chargeback process allows consumers to ask their card issuer to reverse payments 
made on their card in certain circumstances  such as where theres a problem with the 
transaction as there was here.  It doesnt guarantee that consumers will get their money 
back - its not a legal right - and individual card issuers have their own rules to say how the 
scheme works.
The card issuer here is Mastercard and the rules mean that, once a chargeback request 
needed is raised, the retailer has 45 days in which to provide evidence to substantiate the 
validity of the transaction. I've looked at the reason under which the chargeback request was 
raised by Halifax and I'm satisfied this was appropriate to the circumstances of Mr S' dispute 
with E.
As our investigator explained it isnt Halifaxs role to assess the quality of the evidence 
provided. So, it doesnt get involved in the merits of the dispute. Its role here is to determine 
whether E was entitled to claim the money that debited Mr S account.On 3 March 2019, Halifax wrote to Mr S explaining that it had refunded the money E had 
claimed. Its correspondence said this is a 45 day temporary credit, as the retailer may 
disagree with our action and provide information to substantiate the charge. Should further 
information be received, we will contact you at that time.
I think the letter Halifax sent Mr S was sufficiently detailed to explain that the credit was 
temporary. And I can see it made Mr S aware that E had a set time in which it could provide 
evidence to substantiate a claim that it had rightfully debited the money. 
E provided Halifax with evidence supporting its claim that it had been entitled to claim the 
money and it did so within 45 days. I can see it provided Halifax with a number of documents 
including the car hire agreement signed by Mr S, invoice, unsigned incident form, customer 
information form, ID taken from Mr S, correspondence sent to Mr S and a repair estimate 
together with what it deemed to be evidence of damage caused to its vehicle. In such 
circumstances I cant fairly criticise Halifax for determining E had been entitled to debit Mr S 
account. 
I know Mr S vehemently denies any damage to the vehicle was caused while it was in his 
custody. I can see he drew Halifaxs attention to the terms and conditions, which state his 
liability for any damage ends when the hire period ends. Hes said the same to our 
investigator. I understand the point Mr S is making here. But, as I mentioned above, Halifaxs 
role here wasnt to weigh up the merits of his dispute with E. So, I can understand why it 
didnt challenge the evidence E presented. And our service wouldnt expect it to either.
I can see this has all been very stressful for Mr S. Im pleased to see that E refunded the 
money it claimed. But that doesnt mean Halifax didnt deal with Mr S chargeback request 
properly. Overall, I havent seen enough to led me to conclude Halifax hasnt followed the 
chargeback process fairly. So I wont be upholding this complaint.
I realise Mr S will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Halifax informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr S 
further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman