DRN-3237177
The complaint
Ms D complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Ms D took out a loan with AvantCredit on 28 March 2016. She borrowed £1,000 and was
due to repay £38.84 monthly for 60 months until 31 March 2021.
Ms D says that AvantCredit didnt properly check whether she could afford the repayments
before it lent to her. She says she is struggling financially and she cannot afford to pay back
the contractual amount each month.
AvantCredit says it asked Ms D for details of her financial circumstances, verified her income
and checked her credit file. It says that, after its creditworthiness and affordability review, it 
concluded the loan was affordable and that the repayments were sustainable for Ms D.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt satisfied that 
AvantCredit had carried out proportionate checks and considered it unlikely Ms D wouldve 
been able to sustainably meet the repayments given her existing credit commitments. She 
recommended AvantCredit should refund the interest and charges Ms D paid on the loan 
(plus 8% statutory interest) and remove associated negative information from her credit file.
AvantCredit responded to say, in summary, that the credit checks showed no information of
concern and there were no indications that Ms D would struggle to sustainably afford the
repayments.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Ms D and to AvantCredit on 25 November 2021. Ive 
summarised my findings:
 AvantCredits checks showed:
 Ms Ds income was in line with what shed declared at around £1,400 per 
month;
 Declared expenses of £345, including £225 on rent;
 Ms Ds existing credit was well-managed and there was no history of defaults 
or missed payments on her credit file;
 She was paying £416 per month towards credit repayments;
 But I didnt find these checks went far enough in the circumstances because:
 Ms Ds loan was for a term of five years and AvantCredit needed to be 
satisfied that the repayments were sustainable for her over that term;
 Ms Ds expenditure figure did not include any spend in key categories such as 
food;
 Ms D was already committed to spending 30% of her income on credit 
repayments which could have been an indication that she was struggling to 
manage her finances.
 I considered AvantCredit should have ensured it fully understood Ms Ds financial 
circumstances and Ms D was asked to provide her full credit file and bank statements 
from the time in order to see what proportionate checks may have shown AvantCredit.
As no further information was received and the existing information did not show the 
repayments to be unaffordable, I couldnt conclude AvantCredit was wrong to approve the 
loan.
My provisional decision was that I did not uphold the complaint.
AvantCredit responded to say it had no additional information to add. Ms D did not respond 
to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice as 
outlined in my provisional decision.
As neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman