DRN-3785861
The complaint
Mr D complains that QIC Europe Ltd avoided his car insurance policy (treated it like it never 
existed) and refused to pay his claim. QIC is dealing with a third party claim. 
What happened
Mr D took out a car insurance policy with QIC online through a comparison website. In 
March 2022 Mr D made a claim for damage to his vehicle following an incident involving 
another vehicle. 
While investigating the claim, QIC discovered that the question it asked about Fixed Penalty 
Notices (FPN) had been answered incorrectly by Mr D when he applied for the policy. And it 
considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it 
to avoid his policy and keep the premium paid. 
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. They 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and agreed it was deliberate or 
reckless and that QIC were entitled to avoid his policy and retain the premium hed paid 
because he didnt tell it about a FPN he had. 
Mr D doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He 
says he didnt deliberately misrepresent the facts about his driving history. He believes the 
question wasnt clear enough. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC thinks Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered the following question:
Have you committed any driving offences or had any Fixed Penalty Notices in the 
last 5 years?
Underneath the question it read:
If you dont tell your insurer about previous offences, your car insurance may not pay 
out if you make a claim.
Additional information available to assist in answering the question read:
Wondering what counts? - Insurers need to know about any driving offences youve 
been convicted of, including any Fixed Penalty Notices (FPNs) youve been issued 
for offences such as speeding, driving without due care and attention or driving with 
blood/alcohol level above the limit. If youve attended a speeding awareness course, 
you dont have to declare this as a conviction.
Mr D told QIC of two speeding offences, but not a third which he received two months before 
he applied for the policy. Mr D was aware of the most recent offence, but says he didnt 
disclose it as he intended to appeal it. He however didnt go on to do this and his driving 
licence was endorsed with the third offence. 
Mr D says the question isnt clear enough. He says there is a clear difference between being 
offered a FPN and being convicted of one. He says if he had successfully appealed the FPN, 
it doesnt make sense for him to have had to declare it at this stage - as he intended to 
appeal it. 
Mr D says the question asks if he was convicted of any FPNs and this is crucial. He says it 
doesnt ask him for any convictions or FPNs. He says that by using the word including it is 
asking what FPNs have been similarly concluded. 
Ive looked at the question asked - it asks if Mr D if he had any FPNs. It doesnt ask him to 
disregard any he had, but intended to appeal. This was something QIC couldnt have known 
when it asked the question. At the point when Mr D answered the question, he had a FPN 
which he knew about and didnt disclose when he answered this question. 
When Mr D received his policy documents, he was given a further opportunity to check the 
information hed provided was correct. The Statement of Fact reads:
Motoring convictions - Please show below any unspent convictions, driving licence 
endorsements, fixed penalty offences or pending prosecutions, which you or any 
other person who will ride have incurred in the last 5 years
The Statement shows two of the three FPNs Mr D declared. Under the section Important 
Notes QIC advised Mr D that his claim may not be met and his policy avoided if he didnt 
answer the questions honestly and to the best of his knowledge. 
So I agree with QIC that the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate in line with CIDRA. 
QIC has provided evidence which shows that had it known about the third FPN it wouldnt 
have offered a policy to Mr D. A business underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive and 
is different to each business depending on their risk appetite. So this service cannot share 
commercially sensitive business information. But we can ask a business to provide it to us to 
see if it has treated a customer fairly or not. Having done so, Im satisfied Mr Ds misrepresentation was a qualifying one. And so I think 
QIC treated Mr D fairly and as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. 
QIC has classified the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless because it says Mr D was 
aware of the FPN he had from two months before he applied for the policy. 
Im satisfied it has acted fairly by doing so. Ive therefore looked at the actions QIC can take 
in accordance with CIDRA  where the misrepresentation is classed as deliberate or reckless. 
QIC avoided Mr Ds policy, declined his claim because of this and kept the premium hed 
already paid. These actions are in line with the remedies detailed under CIDRA. 
In light of all this, I think QIC has acted reasonably and in line with CIDRA. So Im not asking 
it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman