DRN-1269839
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with PSA Finance 
UK Limited (PSA) was misrepresented to him as the advertisement said it had front parking 
sensors, but it didnt.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to Mr C. If it was and if I was persuaded that Mr C would not have 
proceeded with the deal if it wasnt for the misrepresentation, I would think PSA were 
responsible and Id ask them to take some further action.
Its clear that Mr Cs car was advertised as having front parking sensors. It didnt have these, 
but Im persuaded that Mr C subsequently accepted that they would be retrofitted by the 
dealership.
The dealership havent fitted original equipment sensors as theyve explained thats not 
possible. But the car now has front parking sensors and, as thats what it was advertised 
with, I dont think it would be reasonable to tell PSA to allow Mr C to reject the vehicle.
But they should compensate him for the loss of use hes had. The vehicle was without front 
sensors for about four months and PSA have offered to repay one monthly finance 
instalment. I think thats fair in the circumstances and Im not asking them to take any further 
action.
I understand that Mr C may now have further problems with the car, but PSA havent had the 
chance to consider those issues and, if hes unable to resolve them with the dealership, he 
should, in the first instance, refer the problems to PSA for their comments.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman