DRN-3721950
The complaint
Mr T complains about the amount hes been charged by Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) for damage 
to a car he returned when his lease agreement ended.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr T under a lease agreement which he signed in September 
2016. The agreement was initially for 4 years but was extended for a further year.
The car was inspected at the end of the agreement in September 2021. Damage was found 
and an invoice was raised. Mr T complained to Lex, who agreed to credit some of the 
charges but said the rest were correct.
Mr T remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She considered each charge in detail against 
the BVLRA guidelines on fair wear and tear and concluded that the damage fell outside fair 
wear and tear.
Mr T didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
This is my decision on the charges for damage. I have issued a separate decision in relation 
to Mr Ts complaint about the amendment to the lease agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The lease agreement states, at section 19, that Mr T is responsible for the costs of repair of 
any loss or damage which goes beyond fair wear and tear.
Mr T returned the car at the end of the agreement and it was inspected by Lex in September 
2021. The inspection report identified damage to the car with estimated repair costs of 
£1185. Lex later agreed to credit £307.
Ive considered the damage identified in the inspection report including the photos of the 
damage. I consider that the damage is more than would reasonably be considered to be fair 
wear and tear in accordance with the BVLRA guidelines on fair wear and tear.
This is because, in relation to the wheels, the BVLRA guidelines say that scuffs totalling up 
to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy wheels are acceptable, 
but that any damage to the wheel spokes and hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. 
Having considered the inspection report, Im satisfied that there are scratches on all four 
wheels which exceed 50mm. This is outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines and Im 
satisfied that the charges have been applied correctly.
Ive considered the damage to the paintwork, bumper and body of the car. Having done so, I 
agree with the investigators analysis and application of the BVLRA guidelines.
Based on the inspection report, Im satisfied that all of the damage is outside of fair wear and 
tear and that the charges have been applied correctly.
Mr T has said that the BVLRA guidelines should take account of the fact that his car is over 
three years old. Hes also said that Lex has overcharged him for the cost of repairs because 
is local garage could have carried out the repairs at half the cost. Mr T has said that he 
should receive a refund because he returned the car under mileage.
Ive thought about these points. Mr T agreed, when he entered into the lease agreement, 
that he would be responsible for any damage which went beyond fair wear and tear. The 
BVLRA guidelines are an industry accepted standard for assessing wear and tear. The 
guidelines arent based on cars of a specific age or agreements of a certain term but are 
applied generally to assess wear and tear at the end of an agreement.
In relation to repairs, a customer can arrange for repairs of damage which is outside of fair 
wear and tear before the vehicle is returned, provided that the repairs are carried out to a 
professional standard by a reputable repairer. Im satisfied that Mr T was made aware of the 
returns standards before the end of his agreement and that he could have arranged for 
repairs to be carried out elsewhere if he wished.
In relation to the mileage, Mr T agreed to make payments for the car supplied to him. The 
agreement  included additional payments if the mileage allowance was exceeded but theres 
no provision in the agreement for Mr T to receive a refund of payments or a reduction in any 
additional charges if he drove the car for less than the annual mileage allowance or returned 
the car under mileage.
In conclusion, Im not persuaded that Lex has acted incorrectly in connection with the 
charges for damage to the car. I wont be asking Lex to reduce or waive the charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman