DRN-2885231
The complaint
H complains that AON UK Limited (AON) didnt act on its request to increase the buildings 
sum insured for its commercial property.
Mrs S brought the complaint on behalf of H, and AON was the broker arranging the 
insurance on Hs behalf.
 
What happened
H had buildings and contents cover arranged by AON for more than ten years. In 2017, H 
made a claim under the contents policy for theft, during which the loss adjuster said the 
buildings sum insured was insufficient. 
In September 2018, after the policy renewed at the original amount, H asked AON to 
increase the sum insured and send it an invoice. AON confirmed the additional, mid-term 
premium and asked H how it would like to proceed. H didnt respond, and the policy 
remained at the lesser amount of around £250,000.
Nine months after the policy renewal, H suffered fire damage. H then asked for a copy of the 
2018 renewal documents, which AON provided. 
At the 2019 renewal, AON sent H the renewal documents with the buildings cover still at 
£250,000.  AON asked H on a couple of occasions whether any changes were needed. H 
confirmed it was happy to proceed but said itd be increasing the buildings sum insured once 
the fire damage was repaired.
In June 2020, H asked AON to increase the buildings sum insured to around £650,000 with 
immediate effect.
H complained to AON because the Club building was underinsured when the fire happened, 
and it thought that was AONs fault. 
AON didnt think it had done anything wrong because H didnt reply to it when it asked how 
to proceed with the mid-term increase. But AON offered £250 by way of apology for not 
chasing Hs response.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that AON had done what it 
shouldve done by giving H the information it needed in order to increase the sum insured. 
H didnt agree. It thought AON was responsible because it didnt chase Hs response when it 
first asked to increase the sum insured, and because AON had a duty to make sure the 
insurance was adequate to meet Hs demands and needs.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator.
Firstly, Ill just explain that H has used the term negligent in its description of AONs actions 
or lack thereof. Negligence is a legal term and its not within my remit to decide whether a 
company has been negligent. What Ive looked at is whether AON did what it shouldve done 
to make sure H had the information it needed before buying/renewing the policy, and 
whether it acted reasonably in response to Hs mid-term change request.
 
The key issue here is whether AON was at fault for not chasing a response from H after it 
advised of the premium increase following its request to increase the buildings sum insured. 
There isnt a dispute that AON acted on Hs request. It notified the underwriter which let AON 
know what the premium increase would be. It was a significant increase and AON let H know 
and asked it how to proceed. So, the question is whether it was AONs responsibility to ask 
again or Hs responsibility to reply.
As H asked for the increase, Id have expected it to respond to AONs email. H hasnt said 
why it didnt reply, but it thinks AON had a duty to chase a response. I dont agree. While H 
clearly asked AON to increase the buildings sum insured, I wouldnt expect it to go ahead 
with the increase until H had agreed to the additional premium and either increased any 
direct debit payment or paid the additional premium in full. I dont think its fair to hold AON 
responsible for H not responding.
Ive thought about what happened at the next renewal and I see H didnt make any changes 
to the sum insured then, either. AON sold H the policy on a non-advised basis  it didnt 
advise what cover was needed, and it was clear about that in its documents:
As we are not making a recommendation to you, we would ask that you consider the 
information included within the enclosed documents carefully to ensure that your sums 
insured, limits and estimates are up to date and meet your business requirements.
I know H thinks AON had a duty to ensure it had appropriate cover in place, but that doesnt 
apply here. AON made it clear in the renewal letter that H needed to check the details of the 
policy and let it know of any necessary changes. H didnt ask it to make any changes, 
despite the buildings sum insured still being at the lesser amount. Im satisfied that AON 
gave H clear information about what the cover was for and the sum insured, so I think H had 
enough information to make a decision about whether the policy met Hs needs. 
Several months after the policy renewed, H let AON know that itd be asking for an increase 
once its claim was settled. This implies, to me, that H was fully aware that the buildings sum 
insured hadnt increased and that it had no expectation that it had been. H went on to ask for 
the increase several months after renewal. All of this tells me that H was aware that its 
building was underinsured for around three years from the loss adjusters initial confirmation 
to the eventual increase of the insured sum. During that time, H hadnt paid the higher 
premium and it told AON that itd be increasing it in the future. For these reasons, I cant 
fairly say that AON was at fault for the underinsurance.
H thinks AON is responsible for the underinsurance because it didnt chase a response after 
its first request to increase the cover. AON offered £250 for its failure to chase up Hs 
response to its notification of the increased premium. It made the offer by way of apology for 
the customer service shortfall. I understand that was a matter of courtesy and good business 
practice rather than any acknowledgment that it was at fault for Hs underinsurance. To be clear, I wouldnt have asked AON to compensate for this as I dont consider it a service 
shortfall. The sum insured wasnt increased because H didnt act on AONs request for 
confirmation of how to proceed, rather than because it didnt chase a response. Therefore, 
Im satisfied that its offer is generous. 
Overall, while AON offered compensation for its customer service shortfall in not chasing H 
for a response, H didnt acknowledge, accept, or pay the additional premium so AON didnt 
make any changes to the policy. AONs duty, for a non-advised sale, was to provide enough 
information which was clear and not misleading, so that H could make a decision about the 
its insurance requirements. Its Hs responsibility as the policyholder to obtain cover that 
meets its needs and AON made that clear in the renewal documents. I dont think AON has 
done anything wrong here, and I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman