DRN-3417418
The complaint
Mrs W is a sole trader. She complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim 
for storm damage made under a Farm and Estate insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been 
summarised by our investigator, so I wont repeat them here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my 
reasons for my decision.
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended it not be upheld. They 
concluded AXA had dealt with the claim fairly in the circumstances.
Mrs W disagreed. In summary she said:
AXAs loss adjuster attempted to get a cash settlement to cover the repairs but was 
prevented from doing so by the insurer.
The loss adjusters report and the forensic engineers report (who Ill refer to as B) 
are contradictory. This includes their conclusions on the pre-incident condition of the 
buildings, and whether any of the material was salvageable in order to contribute to 
the repairs.
She was forced to accept AXAs cash settlement of £50,000 to try and save the 
damaged buildings, leaving a significant shortfall for the repair work.
The cash settlement doesnt take into account all of the damage caused by the 
storm, whereas the quotes shes provided for the repairs does. And AXAs delays in 
settling the claim have contributed to increased repair costs.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In November 2020, AXA offered to pay Mrs W a further £50,000 (net of all previous 
payments and net of the policy excess). This was in full and final settlement of, and 
discharge of the balance payable under the policy  in respect of the claim she 
notified AXA of in February 2020. And Mrs W accepted that settlement offer. While I 
understand shes said she felt she had no choice but to do so, Im not satisfied that 
there is any proper basis to say that she shouldnt be bound by the settlement.
I can see that as part of referring the complaint to our service, Mrs W has highlighted 
issues with the buildings which she says can be linked to storm damage. But as the 
settlement above covered all claims for loss and/or damage resulting from storm 
damage, Im satisfied there is no further provision for her to claim here. 
However, although I am satisfied that the settlement covers the damage about which 
Mrs W notified AXA in February 2020, I also think that I can go on to consider 
whether AXAs subsequent conduct may have led to further damage.
Overall, having considered everything carefully, Im not persuaded that the overall 
time taken to investigate the cause of the damage has contributed to any additional 
damage which can be considered separate or outside of the terms of the settlement 
Mrs W has already received. 
I say this because of the conclusions drawn in Bs report. B based their findings on 
evidence provided by both Mrs W and AXA. And B stated, I find it almost 
impossible to imagine that such an impact [the tree branch] could have caused a 
structurally sound roof of the incident design (even a historic one) to collapse so 
extensivelyA branch falling onto the roof could have precipitated the collapse on 
the basis that the roof structure had been heavily weakened by insect attack and 
decay prior to the incidentIn my view, while repair would have been possible [prior 
to the incident], this would have involved either replacing significant parts of the 
timber structure or strengthening it in such a drastic manner that a significant part of 
the weakened structure was made redundant. 
B concludes that both roofs were in a poor state of repair. And B supported their 
findings with photos from around the date of loss highlighting the wear and tear, 
along with photos from their own visit. Taking everything into account, Im persuaded 
by Bs conclusions that this wear and tear was present at the time of the initial claim 
and havent seen anything firm to refute them.
Therefore, I find AXA has acted fairly and reasonably by taking this report into 
account when negotiating and offering its full and final settlement, and in weighing it 
up against its liability under the terms of the policy. And having considered the scope 
of works and quotes provided, I find the settlement offered to be a fair and 
reasonable reflection of the damage associated with the storm event. So, Im not 
going to require AXA to pay anything further here.
Ive considered the overall time AXA took to offer a settlement on the claim, which 
was approximately eight months. I accept AXA had some concerns about the scope 
of the reinstatement works compared to the proportion of damage initially claimed for. 
So as the insurer it was entitled to carry out further investigations to establish the limit 
of its liability under the policy. And I dont think this was an unreasonable or 
unavoidable delay in the circumstances. So, I dont find AXA either directly caused, 
or are responsible for any future losses here. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman