DRN-1537043
The complaint
Mr V has complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim 
made under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr V reported an incident involving a third party vehicle to his insurer, 
Admiral. 
Mr V said the third party came out from a side road in front of him . Mr V said he was 
travelling at around 45 mph  on a road with a limit of 60mph  and attempted to carry out an 
overtake manoeuvre to avoid a collision. He said the third party had slowed down to almost 
a stop to take the next turn back down the same road they came from. As the third party 
turned right, their cars collided. 
The third party said they were stationary waiting to turn right when Mr V collided with their 
vehicle while attempting to overtake.
In September 2019 Mr V called Admiral to complain. He was unhappy with the length of time 
it was taking to settle the claim. He didnt agree he was at fault in any way for the incident 
and he wanted a refund of his excess. He wanted Admiral to settle the claim. Mr V said he 
tried to raise a complaint several times but was unable to. 
Admiral apologised to Mr V. It said there were times its service could have been better as he 
contacted it more than Admiral had updated him. For the poor service and telephone calls, it 
paid Mr V £100 compensation. It accepted there were delays in its handling of the claim.
Admiral said that a judge may state Mr V should be aware of vehicles turning into the minor 
road, so the overtaking manoeuvre could be criticised. The third party would also have a 
duty of care to check their mirrors before turning. Admiral said based on the information it 
had from both Mr V and the third party, it was likely to settle the claim on a joint liability 
basis. 
It quoted a similar case which had been settled by a Judge this way. It said it couldnt close 
the claim as the third party was still pursuing their claim and the wait for information from it 
was outside of Admirals control. 
Admiral explained that the excess was payable as a claim had been made. Mr V had the 
option to use the legal expenses section of his policy to pursue his uninsured losses if 
possible. 
It didnt have a record of Mr Vs attempts to make a complaint previously. It said if he could 
provide proof, it would consider this complaint further. 
Mr V remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted Admiral to settle 
the claim and to refund his excess. He was unhappy that the claim was open at renewal and 
affected his NCD and the premium he paid for insurance. Mr V maintained his view that he 
was not at fault for the incident. 
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted in line with the policy when investigating the 
claim. He explained that our role isnt to decide liability. However, he found that Admiral had 
treated Mr V as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. As there were no 
independent witnesses or CCTV/dashcam footage, it was one word against the other. And 
so based on the accounts given and previous cases, the investigator thought it was 
reasonable to look to settle on a shared liability basis. At the time of the investigators 
findings, Admiral hadnt reached an agreement with the third party as to how liability might 
be split. 
The investigator thought the compensation Admiral paid for its poor service was fair. He 
found that mostly the length of time was a result of waiting for information from the third 
party. 
Mr V didnt agree. He doesnt think the example in case law Admiral relied on is similar to the 
circumstances of the accident. Mr V said it isnt in dispute as to what happened  only who is 
at fault. He said the third party pulled out in front of him from the right when it wasnt safe, 
then slowed down to turn right effectively doing a U turn to go back down the road they came 
from. 
Mr V believes the third party is entirely at fault for the collision. 
As Mr V didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we dont decide liability. This is the role of the courts. But we 
can look at whether an insurer reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. Mr 
Vs policy with Admiral has a very common term which says it can take over the defence and 
settlement of a claim. This means Admiral might make a decision Mr V disagrees with, but 
the policy allows Admiral to do this. 
Ive looked at the aerial map picture Mr V has provided which has been helpful in visualising 
the circumstances of the incident. I understand Mr V is of the view that the third party 
shouldnt have pulled out from the side road when they did. He says that he had to make a 
split second decision to overtake to avoid a collision.
I appreciate that Mr V is of the view that the case Admiral referred to isnt similar to his. But I 
think there are key similarities which its reasonable for Admiral to take into account when 
deciding how best to settle this claim. Overall I think Admiral has shown that it properly 
considered the circumstances of the incident. A judge would consider both accounts. The 
third partys version of events is that they were already established on the road ahead of Mr 
V when the collision happened - while Mr V was attempting to overtake. I think Admiral 
provided a reasonable explanation as to why it wouldnt look to settle the claim as a non 
fault claim for Mr V. And it can decide its better to settle the claim on the best terms possible 
rather than risk significant court costs pursuing a claim it believes isnt likely to succeed.
I understand Mr Vs strength of feeling about his complaint. But based on what Ive seen I 
think Admiral has dealt with his complaint reasonably. And I think the compensation it paid is 
fair to reflect its poor service in a lack of updates to Mr V. Until the claim is settled, it will; show as an open claim and can have an impact at renewal. Its industry standard that 
insurers treat an open claim s as a fault claim until settled. If however the claim is settled as 
a non fault claim, the insurer should provide a refund for the difference in premium and 
restore a customers NCD if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman