DRN-2957487
The complaint
Mr K complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) acted irresponsibly when 
lending to him. 
What happened
Cashfloat provided Mr K with loans as follows:
Loan Date 
takenDate 
paidLoan 
amountInstalmentsHighest 
Repayment
LENDING CHAIN ONE
First loan 
taken08/11/2017 20/11/2017 £500.00 4 months £198.44
LENDING CHAIN TWO
Start of 
second loan 
chain 13/12/2018 28/12/2018 £200.00 1 month £224.00
2 10/01/2019 28/02/2019 £500.00 2 months £315.85
3 05/03/2019 30/04/2019 £750.00 3 months £360.58
4 12/09/2019 27/12/2019 £750.00 4 months £257.51
5 11/01/2020 17/02/2020 £600.00 4 months £255.45
6 13/03/2020 04/08/2020 £750.00 5 months £300.40
When Mr K first complained to Cashfloat, it didnt uphold his complaint, But it offered him a 
one-off payment of £150 as a goodwill gesture to settle his complaint.
Mr K didnt feel this offer went far enough to put things right and so he brought his complaint 
to this Service.  
Mr K mainly said that Cashfloat didnt do proper checks before it provided him with these 
loans. He told us that he had struggled financially to meet his credit commitments and he 
had a gambling addiction which he thinks came about as a result of trying to fund his loan 
repayments. Mr K believed that if Cashfloat had done proper checks it wouldve seen that 
these loans werent affordable for him and shouldnt have been provided.  
Our adjudicator thought that, at the point of loan 4 in lending chain two, proportionate checks 
would most likely have shown that Mr K was having problems managing his money. Our 
adjudicator thought that Cashfloat should've become aware that Mr K was borrowing from 
other short-term lenders and spending a lot of his income on gambling. Our adjudicator said 
that Cashfloat ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr K wouldve been able to sustainably 
repay this loan or any further loans. 
And he felt that Cashfloat should have realised that, by loan 6, Mr Ks overall pattern of 
borrowing showed that he had become persistently reliant on short-term loans. So our 
adjudicator upheld Mr Ks complaint about loans 4, 5 and 6 and he set out the steps he said 
Cashfloat should take to put things right.
Cashfloat disagreed with our adjudicators view. In summary, Cashfloat said it believed that 
the checks it did were proportionate and the gaps in lending between loans 3 and 4 showed 
that Mr K wasnt reliant on short-term borrowing, his credit profile was generally good, its 
checks showed only one other outstanding loan when he took out loan 6 and his living 
arrangements meant he had adequate disposable income to pay for all these loans. So 
Cashfloat felt that the lending it provided was all affordable for him. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Like the adjudicator, I think the gap of around 13 months between Mr Ks first loan with 
Cashfloat in November 2017 and the next loan he applied for was long enough for Cashfloat 
reasonably to think that Mr K had been able to put his finances in order as it didnt look like 
he had been dependent on high cost short term loans during this period. 
This meant that when his borrowing started again, and Mr K applied for a loan in December 
2018, he was effectively starting over. So I think it was fair for Cashfloat to treat this as a 
new chain of borrowing and assess his lending requests accordingly. 
Ive taken into account what Cashfloat says about the other gaps in lending. But I dont 
agree with Cashfloat when it says that the gap after loan 3 was sufficient to say this broke 
the lending chain. 
I accept that in some circumstances it might be fair to say a gap of over 4 months could be 
long enough to suggest that it would be fair to treat the borrowers next loan application as if 
he was starting afresh. But I don't think thats a reasonable assumption here. 
I say this because Mr K had been paying Cashfloat loans more or less continuously from 
mid-December 2018 until the end of April 2019  and the loan amounts borrowed had been 
steadily increasing  along with the loan terms. When he applied for loan 4, this was for the 
same amount as his last loan  which had been the largest loan taken to date. I think it was 
also significant that he extended the loan term by a month  most likely to reduce the size of 
the monthly repayments he was signing up to, even though this added potentially to the 
overall loan cost. And by now he was borrowing (for the second time) a loan that was 50% 
more than the amount he had first borrowed from Cashfloat some 22 months earlier. 
So, overall, I dont think this gap in lending was enough to suggest that Mr Ks financial 
circumstances had improved during the period when he hadnt been actively borrowing from 
Cashfloat. 
Cashfloat told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr K. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Cashfloat what he normally spent each month. And 
Cashfloat also carried out checks on Mr Ks credit file. 
It looks like our adjudicator didnt think he had enough evidence to say any of the loans Mr K 
had taken out prior to loan 4 in chain two shouldnt have been provided. Ive looked at the 
information Cashfloat gathered in advance of providing all these earlier loans, including 
income and expenditure information from the time, and I dont think that Ive seen enough to 
say Cashfloat shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr K. As far as I can see, Mr K 
appears to be happy with what our adjudicator said in his view, so I dont think I need to say 
any more about them.
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Cashfloat to provide loan 4 to Mr K  
or any of the loans that followed. Heres why I say this.
Based on what Mr K had told Cashfloat about his living arrangements and his financial 
situation, Cashfloat understood that he had ample disposable income each month and only limited responsibility for usual household costs. So, given Mr Ks apparent ongoing and 
increasing need for expensive credit, I think Cashfloat should by now have realised that 
Mr Ks borrowing seemed to be at odds with what Mr K had told Cashfloat about his 
circumstances. 
I think this information shouldve prompted Cashfloat to carry out more thorough checks into 
Mr Ks financial situation before agreeing to lend. I think Cashfloat should have taken steps 
to verify what Mr K was saying about his financial circumstances. Cashfloat hasnt shown me 
it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing to 
lend to Mr K. 
Mr K has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Cashfloat 
was likely to have found out. In the absence of other evidence, I think these give a useful 
insight into Mr Ks finances at the time. And had Cashfloat looked in more depth at Mr Ks 
finances it would likely have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money. 
I think it would have learnt that Mr K was regularly spending significant amounts on what 
appear to be gambling transactions and had it seen those transactions, that Cashfloat 
should have concluded it was unlikely that Mr K would be able to repay this loan in a 
sustainable manner. And I think that concern wouldve been borne out by what else more in-
depth checks should have revealed  including information that showed Mr K was actively 
borrowing from other short-term loan providers and despite this he still needed to make full 
use of the £2,000 overdraft he had on his current account. This didnt however prevent Mr K 
also having some debit payments returned and I think Cashfloat would have found out that 
he was incurring additional bank charges on top of his arranged overdraft fees. 
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Cashfloat to think that it was likely Mr K would 
be able sustainably to repay his borrowing  so it shouldnt have provided this loan or any of 
the loans that followed.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Cashfloats lending history with Mr K, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say this because: 
this was Mr Ks sixth consecutive loan with Cashfloat since he taken out loan 1 in 
chain two around fifteen months or so earlier and there had been no significant 
breaks in lending  
whilst the loan amounts had been variable, by loan 6 it was evident that Mr K wasnt 
making any real inroads into the amount he owed. Loan 6 was the third time that 
Mr K had borrowed £750  an amount equal to the largest loan amount he had taken 
- and I think a pattern of dependency was apparent in respect of his borrowing, 
especially as Cashfloats own checks showed he was also still paying another short 
term loan
at this point, Cashfloat ought to have known that Mr K was not likely borrowing to 
meet a temporary shortfall in income but to meet an ongoing need and that Mr Ks 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.I think that Mr K lost out when Cashfloat provided loan 6 because this loan had the effect of 
unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit over an 
extended period of time. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account that Mr K repaid some loans early  but 
this doesnt necessarily mean that he was able to do so in a way that was sustainable for 
him. And I've also thought carefully about what Cashfloat has said about declining some of 
his later loan applications as a precautionary measure  but this isnt enough to persuade 
me that the loans it did provide were sustainably affordable for Mr K. 
For the reasons I've explained more fully above, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4, 
5 and 6 and Cashfloat should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr K, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr K may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly if a relationship existed between 
him and Cashfloat which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, he 
may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even 
possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr K in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr K would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So heres what Cashfloat needs to do:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 4, 5 and 6 not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr K which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr K originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr K the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse information Cashfloat has recorded on Mr Ks credit file for 
loans 4 and 5. The pattern of lending by the point of loan 6 means any information recorded about this loan is adverse. So all entries about loan 6 should be removed 
from Mr Ks credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint about loans 4, 5 and 6.
Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) should take the steps Ive set out to put things 
right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman