DRN-3722575
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was charged fees by Revolut Ltd (Revolut).
What happened
On 1 February 2022, Revolut emailed Mr L to offer him a three-month free trial for their 
Premium service. This had added benefits compared to Revoluts standard package. On 2 
May 2022, Revolut charged a fee of £6.99: and again, on 1 June 2022. On 2 May 2022, Mr 
Ls we account went overdrawn after the fees were debited. There were three declined 
transactions after that time.
 Mr L complained. He said he wasnt aware that there would be fees to pay for the premium 
offer after it expired, and nor should there have been a card delivery fee. He said he hadnt 
signed a credit agreement and therefore he hadnt agreed to an overdraft. Because of the 
fees, some transactions were declined and he had to spend a lot of time contacting the 
beneficiaries. He said hed spent 12 hours of his time sorting matters out and he should be 
paid £100 per hour.
Revolut said Mr L took the three-month trial on 1 February 2022 and hadnt cancelled 
Premium. The terms of the offer were sent to Mr L and said Premium subscription fees 
would apply after the trial period. Fees became payable on 2 May 2022. Revolut didnt 
uphold Mr Ls complaint but refunded the two monthly fees of £6.99 as a goodwill gesture.
Mr L brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Revolut acted reasonably. Theyd 
acted within the terms and conditions of the trial offer. When the three-month trial ended, 
fees became payable. The terms and conditions also said a card delivery fee applied. He 
could see that Revolut had refunded the two monthly subscription fees, but he didnt uphold 
Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Revolut emailed Mr L on 1 February 2022 with a three-month free trial of their 
Premium package. This had several added features compared to the Standard account. 
Mr L accepted the offer a few minutes after it arrived  at 18.26 on 1 February 2022. 
It's important to understand how Revolut made the offer to Mr L and to ensure he accepted 
its terms. So - I looked at those aspects. The offer sent to Mr L clearly said Revolut 
Premium subscription fees will apply after the trial period. 
I can also see that a link to the terms and conditions was sent to Mr L as part of the 
invitation. And these said You can pay your subscription fee in monthly instalments or pay 
the full subscription once a year. These fees are set out in our Fees page. You can end 
your Plus, Premium or Metal subscription at any time (we call this a downgrade). However, 
you may have to pay a fee. I accept that Mr L may not have clicked on the link to the terms 
and conditions  but I cant hold Revolut responsible if he didnt. And Revolut told us that 
their process is that a customer agrees to the terms and conditions by applying for the 
package through the app  which I think is reasonable.
Looking at the card fee charged  the terms and conditions also cover that as they say If 
we sent a Plus Card or Premium Card to you, we'll charge you the delivery fee
Mr L didnt cancel the Premium service within the three-month period, and so the fees 
became payable. Revolut didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint, but they did refund the two monthly 
fees of £6.99 on 28 June 2022   as a gesture of goodwill.
I also noticed that the card delivery fee of £4.99 was refunded at the same time  and 
Revolut confirmed to me that the card fee was also refunded as a gesture of goodwill. 
So  Revolut refunded all the fees in question, which I think was a very reasonable thing to 
do.
Mr L went on the say that Revolut shouldnt have allowed an overdraft on his account. I can 
see that Revoluts terms and conditions say You cannot borrow money on your account (for 
example, make payments of more than the value of the money in it), although you may be 
able to benefit from one of our credit products. If your balance becomes negative (for 
example, because you do not have enough e-money to cover fees you owe us), you must 
top up your account immediately. Therefore, while the terms do say that overdrafts arent 
allowed, Revoluts terms say that an overdraft may be created by the monthly fees  which 
was the case here.
I appreciate that Mr L feels strongly about his complaint. He will therefore be disappointed by 
my decision. But I think Revolut acted reasonably and therefore I wont be asking them to do 
anymore here. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman