DRN-2750953
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) because he felt he was 
unable to access his own money as a result of payments being blocked and his online 
banking being suspended. Hes also unhappy with the security questions he was asked by 
Halifax when speaking to them over the telephone. 
What happened
Mr H tried to make a payment twice on 13 October 2020, but it was blocked, and his online 
banking was suspended. He went into branch to try and withdraw the money in cash. 
However, he was unable to. He has told us that he made similar transfers from the account 
the previous day without any problems. 
He called Halifax so he could unblock the payment and his online banking. But the call was 
disconnected, and he had to call them a second time. He spoke to the security team and 
was able to make the payment on the same day. He also raised his complaint. 
Halifax responded and offered £25 to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr H when the telephone call was disconnected. They also said they would cover the cost 
of the calls if there were any. However, Halifax felt theyd acted fairly in respect of blocking 
the payment and suspending his online banking. Also, that their identification and verification 
process was reasonable. 
Mr H remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The investigator felt that Halifaxs offer 
of £25 and to cover the cost of the calls was fair and reasonable. Mr H didnt agree with the 
view. Therefore, the case passed to me.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Payment and online banking
Its important to recognise that all banks should have appropriate security controls and 
systems in place to protect against fraud, not least to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. It would be unreasonable to expect fraud systems to identify and prevent all 
fraudulent activity, or to never pick up transactions that subsequently prove to be genuine. I 
must bear this in mind when considering if Halifax have acted fairly and reasonably. 
Ive reviewed Halifaxs terms and conditions where they state they could stop a payment if 
they reasonably believed it was necessary because of security or they suspected 
unauthorised or fraudulent use. They said theyd act in a reasonably appropriate way and try 
to reduce the inconvenience. Therefore, Im content Halifax acted in line with their terms and 
conditions when they stopped the payment and suspended Mr Hs online banking because 
the payment had been referred for a security check. 
The terms and conditions also set out that a branch may need 24 hours notice for cash 
withdrawals over £2,500. As Mr H wanted to withdraw significantly more than this without 
notice, it wasnt unreasonable that the branch couldnt accommodate his request. 
Ive listened to the calls from 13 October 2020 and note Mr H explained he had called 
because of the blocked payment and his online banking was suspended. The first call 
disconnected, and Halifax have accepted this caused Mr H inconvenience. I agree because 
he had to call back again after he had already waited on hold.  
During the second call, Mr H was passed to Halifaxs security team in order to verify the 
transaction and unsuspend his online banking. Ive seen the statements which show Mr H 
was able to make the payment and note he was able to access his online banking. 
Therefore, Mr H was able to make the payment on the same day after Halifax had verified it 
as genuine. 
Generally speaking, banking security systems will take into account a range of factors to 
determine whether there could be a security risk and if further investigation is required. 
Halifax have explained that all payments are checked and may be flagged until verified as 
genuine. Although Mr H has said hed previously transferred a similar amount of money, this 
doesnt mean that further transfers wont be flagged. Halifax have explained that sometimes 
the amount can be a factor but not always and its not the only thing taken into consideration. 
Im content with this explanation and I wouldnt expect them to provide anything further 
which could undermine the effectiveness of their security. 
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax acted fairly and reasonably when they blocked the payment and 
suspended Mr Hs online banking. Although I appreciate Mr H was inconvenienced when he 
couldnt make the payment, Halifax must balance the needs of its customers to use online 
banking with minimal effort and protecting against fraudulent activity. The evidence Ive seen 
doesnt convince me that they treated Mr H unfairly.
Security questions
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and I can see that Halifax explained theyd check Mr 
Hs identity. They also explained theyd do all they reasonably could to prevent unauthorised 
access. Im content Halifax were acting in line with their terms and conditions when they 
asked Mr H for information about his account including direct debits in order to check his 
identity. 
I note Mr H had difficulty recalling information about his direct debits on 13 October 2020. 
But he was able to complete the security checks. Mr H also had to answer security questions 
again after the first call disconnected, but it was necessary because it was a new call. 
When Mr H spoke with the customer service desk, they also asked security questions and 
said Mr H could log into his account to view his information. He says this added to his 
frustrations because he wasnt previously able to do this when his online banking was 
suspended. He was unhappy with the level of knowledge he was expected to have. 
In common with many banks, Halifax verifies caller identity by asking questions based on a 
combination of static and dynamic information it has about the customer. Static information 
includes things like a password or memorable date or address. Dynamic information might  
as here  be questions about recent transactions. Ive reviewed Halifaxs caller verification process, and although I cant share it with Mr H due to its obvious sensitivity, Im satisfied its 
in line with good industry practice.
I acknowledge Mr Hs comments about having a large number of direct debits, and at the 
time not having access to his online banking to enable him to answer the banks question 
with confidence. And I appreciate in the circumstances at play here, it must have been 
annoying to be told he could log into his account to view the information. But I dont think that 
means Halifax was wrong to ask him the question about his direct debits.
If Mr H had been unable to answer the question successfully, Halifaxs verification process 
does enable him to be asked an alternative question. That seems to me to be a reasonable 
approach to address the concern hes expressed. As Mr H was able to answer the banks 
question correctly, I dont consider it necessary for me to go further into this issue.
Therefore, Im not persuaded Halifax have done anything wrong here. 
Putting things right
 Halifax have offered £25 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
disconnected call. Theyve also offered to cover the cost of the calls should Mr H provide 
evidence of this. Im satisfied this appropriately addresses the impact caused to Mr H when 
the call was disconnected.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) should pay Mr H £25 compensation and cover the 
cost of the relevant telephone calls from 13 October 2020 should Mr H provide them with 
evidence of this. This is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman