DRN-4324018
The complaint
Mr W complains that PCF Bank Limited recorded incorrect payment information on his credit 
file causing him financial loss, distress and inconvenience when he later applied for 
mortgage borrowing. 
What happened
Mr W was interested in adding to his property investment portfolio. During December 2021 
he viewed several properties and approached a broker to source a suitable lender for a 
remortgage. But in January the broker told Mr W the lender theyd approached, T, had 
declined an application for a decision in principle because of adverse credit information.
Mr W says he checked his credit file with credit reference agencies but these showed 
nothing of concern. As I understand it, his broker suggested that he could approach 
alternative sub-prime lenders. But Mr W declined to take this action as the information he 
could see indicated he had a good credit score. He put his plans on hold until May 2022.
At that point, Mr W found another property but his request for a decision in principle  made 
through a different broker  was again declined by the proposed lender. Following some 
further checking Mr W found that one of the credit reference agencies held information from 
PCF that wrongly indicated hed entered into a payment arrangement with PCF.
Mr W says that he contacted PCF and that it immediately admitted the information was 
incorrect. Although PCF corrected the information and Mr W was able to get a mortgage, he 
says its at a higher interest rate than he would have been able to get in January 2022. Hes 
also said that property values increased in the meantime, causing further expense. He wants 
PCF to compensate him for the additional costs, which he assessed as at least £100,000. In 
support of his claim, Mr W provided correspondence from both of his mortgage brokers to 
say that the decisions in principle were declined due to the information reported by PCF.
In response to Mr Ws complaint, PCF acknowledged it had wrongly reported the information 
to the credit reference agency. It offered to pay him £500 to reflect his distress and 
inconvenience. PCF also said it would be willing to consider a further compensation if Mr W 
could show that its error had caused him the losses claimed and that he had taken 
reasonable steps to mitigate those losses.
PCF didnt consider it should be responsible for the losses claimed from January 2022. It 
said if Mr W had looked into his credit file in more detail at that point, it could have corrected 
it within 10 working days, as it did when he contacted it in May.
Our investigator didnt think the evidence Mr W had provided was sufficient for him to 
recommend that PCF cover Mr Ws claimed additional mortgage costs. He wasnt persuaded 
that Mr W would otherwise have been able to proceed with his mortgage plans. What had 
been declined was a decision in principle, which was some way short of a full mortgage 
underwriting exercise.
Further, the investigator felt that Mr W could have done more to deal with the situation in 
January 2022, such as approaching other lenders or looking more closely at the apparent 
discrepancy in the reason for the declined decision and the information on his credit file.
Our investigator felt PCF had made a fair offer to reflect the difficulties Mr W experienced in 
having to sort out his credit file. But Mr W didnt agree and has asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive little doubt the credit file entry PCF wrongly recorded had a bearing on the lending 
decisions. The information provided by Mr Ws brokers suggests this. Once PCF corrected 
the credit file marker he appears to have been able to proceed with a mortgage. And of 
course, its reasonable to expect payment information to have an impact on a persons ability 
to obtain credit; that, after all, is part of the purpose of sharing such data via credit reference 
agencies.
It also seems fairly clear Mr W was caused concern and inconvenience in getting the 
information corrected. Its only right that he receives compensation for this. The £500 PCF 
proposed seems to me a fair way to recognise his distress, time and trouble.
That leaves the question of the extent to which PCF might be liable to compensate Mr W for 
his claimed losses. Ive looked carefully at the evidence Mr Ws provided in support of his 
claim for additional mortgage costs. But having done so, I dont find that PCF is liable to him 
for these.
Its not enough that the information PCF wrongly reported was the cause (or even just the 
primary cause) for the rejection of his decision in principle applications. In order for me to 
say that PCF should compensate him for loss I also need to be satisfied on at least the 
following points:
that, but for the information PCF recorded, Mr W would have obtained the mortgage 
at the stated rate and proceeded to purchase the investment property; and
that Mr W took reasonable steps to avoid the loss or harm caused by PCFs error; 
and
the loss in question would have occurred even if Mr W had taken reasonable steps
There are many stages between making an offer on a property and completion of a 
purchase. While one of these is a decision in principle, as our investigator noted a 
successful mortgage application usually requires further underwriting checks including an 
affordability assessment as well as a suitable property valuation. It will ultimately depend on 
the prospective lenders appetite for the overall proposition. In addition, completion further 
depends on a vendors willingness to proceed with the sale, which they werent bound to do.
Given the number of variables in play in the course of the purchase and bearing in mind that 
the arrangements were at best at a preliminary stage, Im not minded to say that Mr W has 
provided sufficiently persuasive evidence to support his claimed loss.
Im also not satisfied that Mr W took reasonable steps to limit the loss or harm caused by the 
incorrect entry on his credit file. In January 2022, Mr W was aware that there was a 
discrepancy between the reason for the decline decision and the information on his credit 
file. He was on notice that something wasnt right, and in my view it would have been reasonable for him to take more steps than he did at that time to deal with the situation. I 
dont consider that this required specialist knowledge.
I also think its relevant that, when Mr W received the initial decline decision, it appears he 
had the opportunity through his broker to apply to alternative lenders if he wanted to proceed 
with buying the investment property. Although I understand he had his reasons for not doing 
so, I dont think it would be reasonable to hold PCF liable if property prices and/or interest 
rates subsequently moved against him.
Because Im not persuaded on the first two bullet points Ive detailed, the third point isnt 
engaged. I appreciate, of course, that Mr W feels aggrieved at PCFs actions, and why he 
believes that hes significantly lost out. However, for the reasons Ive explained here, Im 
satisfied PCF has made a fair and reasonable offer in resolution of his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint PCF Bank Limited should pay Mr W £500, as 
it has already offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman