DRN-4327123
The complaint
Ms R has complained about the service received from Forester Life Limited. She said the 
value of a child trust fund held for her son, had gone done by a third in value. When she 
looked into this, she said Forester took a long time to respond and this caused her distress 
and inconvenience. 
What happened
Ms R has a child trust fund (CTF) with Forester, that is held for her son. She said she 
checked and the value of the fund on 22 October 2021 was around £11,250. She said a few 
days later on 8 November 2021 the value had reduced significantly to around £7600. She 
queried this with Forester and found out that the investment had been switched by mistake 
by Forester. This was all part of its Lifestyling plan. 
Lifestyling according to Forester is about reducing the risk of the investment in the final 
years of the plan. Ms R didnt want Forester to do this or switch the investment, so she 
complained to it about this, and to query how the investment had gone down in value by so 
much in such a short space of time. 
Forester said in response that arrangements were made to ensure Ms Rs sons plan had 
not been financially disadvantaged because of a technical issue that had occurred following 
her request. It said the error had been resolved and units were now back to how they were 
before Lifestyling had happened. Forester offered an ex-gratia payment of £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience it said it had caused. 
Ms R was not happy with Foresters response and referred her complaint to our service. She 
was not happy with how long Forester had taken to respond to her, misinformation, the lack 
of concern it showed or the impact the complaint was having on her complaint.  
An investigator looked into Ms Rs complaint. She said she didnt think Forester had acted 
fairly. She concluded there was a long delay from the start of Ms Rs complaint up to the 
point in which Forester put right the units held. She said taking into consideration time taken 
to fix the error along with the lack of communication to Ms R, she didnt think £100 
compensation was sufficient. She recommended Forester pay a total of £300. 
Forester responded and said it was prepared to offer £200 in full and final settlement of Ms 
Rs complaint. Forester said it thought £300 was excessive. Ms R didnt agree with 
Foresters offer and said she felt the investigators offer was fair. 
Forester is not in agreement with the investigators view. So as this is the case Ms Rs 
complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding Ms Rs complaint. I will explain why:
Ms Rs initial complaint to Forester was about the value of her sons trust fund. Ms R 
could see that the overall value of the fund had dropped significantly within a few 
days. Forester said that arrangements had been made to ensure her sons plan had 
not been disadvantaged because of a technical issue. I can see Forester put things 
right and both parties are now not in dispute about this.
 
What is left for me to decide on, is about the service Ms R received from Forester 
when she complained to them about the value of her sons trust fund. Ms R said she 
suffered distress and inconvenience over the months she was looking to resolve her 
concerns. The parties have not come to an agreement about how much 
compensation Ms R should receive for this. So, I have looked into what happened 
here and considered this further.
I can see that Ms R first contacted Forester in November 2021. There was some 
initial discussion between the parties about what had happened. Ms R has said 
about this that if she hadnt taken matters further then the trust fund would have 
been worse off by about a third of its value. She said Forester initially gave her 
misinformation and didnt acknowledge or show any concern about the loss. I 
acknowledge what she has said here and can see how that would contribute to the 
stress that she was under at this stage, as she looked to resolve matters.
Forester needed to investigate and then explain to Ms R what had happened. It 
continued to update Ms R up to January 2022 that it was looking into her concerns. 
But then there was then a period of about five months where Forester didnt make 
any contact or update Ms R about what was happening. This must have been a 
stressful period for Ms R as she would have not known whether the issue was going 
to be resolved. 
Forester then managed to work out what had happened in June 2022 and put things 
right in her childs trust fund by putting things back to the way they were and would 
have been but for what it called a technical issue.
I am satisfied Forester did the right thing and unwound the account back to where it 
would have been but for the mistake it said it made. However, I think it has caused 
Ms R distress and inconvenience due to the length of time it took to do this. I cant 
see that it regularly updated Ms R either. It took Forester around seven months to 
resolve her complaint and for five of these, Ms R wouldnt have known whether the 
issue was being resolved or what the outcome was going to be. I think Forester is 
responsible for causing Ms R distress and inconvenience here.
The investigator felt a payment for £300 for distress and inconvenience was fair but 
Forester disagreed and felt this was excessive. When I consider what I have found 
above, I dont think it is. I can see that Ms R had needed to deal with her complaint 
for a protracted amount of time, and throughout was not receiving updates from 
Forester. I think this would have been a stressful time for her. So, I think £300 is a 
fair amount of compensation for Forester to pay. 
Based on everything I have read and the findings I have given, I uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Forester now needs to put things right.  Putting things right
Forester has put things right in relation to Ms Rs sons trust fund. It has ensured that the 
units have been restored in the original investment held within the fund. So, it doesnt need 
to do anymore with regards to Ms Rs original complaint. But I do uphold Ms Rs complaint 
for the reasons I have given above, and Forester need to do the following to put things right:
Pay Ms R £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused due to the length of time it 
took to resolve her complaint and how it handled it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Rs complaint and direct Forester Life Limited to put 
things right as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman