DRN-3027004
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the service they received from Openwork Limited when they 
were looking to consolidate their debt. 
 
What happened
Openwork is an Independent Financial Advisory service. Mr and Mrs C had been using it for 
a number of years to help with their mortgage and other borrowing. 
In September 2019 they asked Openwork to help them consolidate around £60,000 of debt 
into their existing mortgage, as they had been unable to do this directly through their 
mortgage provider. Openwork said the bank would charge a fee for leaving the mortgage 
agreement early, so it suggested considering a second charge mortgage. It referred Mr and 
Mrs C to a company Ill refer to as P, to look into this option for them. 
Mr and Mrs C subsequently took out a second charge mortgage through P. However after a 
few months they didnt feel this was a good deal. They asked Openwork to help them 
consolidate the second charge loan into a single mortgage. 
Openwork tried to do this but the application was declined by two of the main banks. It told 
Mr and Mrs C that this was due to something on their credit record.
Mr and Mrs C werent happy about this and made a complaint. They said P had advised 
them to take out a loan with bad terms and Openwork shouldnt have referred them to P. 
They said they believed this only happened because Openwork make commission from the 
referral and felt this was irresponsible. They also didnt think Openwork did enough to 
explore other possible options that could have met their interests better. 
Openwork didnt uphold their complaint. It said it was satisfied its staff had acted reasonably 
and had their best interests in mind. It said it couldnt be held responsible for any lending 
taken out through P, as that was for P to explain and Mr and Mrs C to decide on based on 
the information.  
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said she was satisfied Openwork had followed a fair process when helping Mr and Mrs C 
consolidate their debt and referring them to P and didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this complaint Mr and Mrs C have raised a number of points. As this is an informal 
service, I havent responded to each one individually, Ive focused on those I think are most 
relevant. However I want to reassure Mr and Mrs C that I have considered everything 
theyve said when reaching my decision.
At the centre of this complaint is the fact that Mr and Mrs C feel they have got a bad deal on 
the loan sold by P. They think they are paying too much interest and that Mrs Cs credit 
rating has been affected by Ps actions. In this complaint I am only considering the actions of 
Openwork, and I cant hold it responsible for the loan provided by a different company. So I 
wont be considering anything in relation to the deal Mr and Mrs C got from P or the impact 
the loan may have had. I note Mr and Mrs C have also made a complaint about P and this 
will be dealt with as part of that complaint. 
So whats left for me to consider is whether Openwork acted fairly and reasonably by 
referring Mr and Mrs C to P.
Mr and Mrs C have said they dont think Openwork did enough to investigate different 
options, before suggesting P as an option. Ive looked at the correspondence provided, and I 
dont agree. When Mr and Mrs C first approached Openwork about consolidating their debt, 
it said the best way to do this is usually through the lender that provides their mortgage. Mr 
and Mrs C confirmed that this is something they had already tried and been unsuccessful. At 
this point Openwork referred them to P.
Openwork has explained that it usually considers such requests by trying a number of 
different options. The first is to extend borrowing with the mortgage provider, which hadnt 
been possible in this case. The second is to move the mortgage to a different provider, if 
there is no penalty to do so. In this case Ive seen there was a penalty of around £5,000 to 
leave their current agreement early. So Openwork moved to the next option which is to 
explore a second charge mortgage and to do this, it referred Mr and Mrs C to P.
Based on this I am satisfied that Openwork acted fairly and reasonably and treated Mr and 
Mrs C in the same way it would treat other customers in their circumstances.
Further when Openwork referred Mr and Mrs C to P, this was in order to see if P could find a 
suitable arrangement for them. If P was unable to find a second charge loan that suited Mr 
and Mrs C then they didnt need to agree to it. And they could return to Openwork to re-think 
their options. The referral alone isnt the reason Mr and Mrs C ended up with a loan from P, 
this was their decision following the referral. So I cant say Openwork are responsible for 
this. 
Mr and Mrs C have also complained that Openwork made commission by referring them to 
P. This isnt unusual for financial businesses to have commercial relationships and make 
commission for referrals. Openwork has provided details of the commission it made to Mr 
and Mrs C. And as Im satisfied it followed a fair process when referring them, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest it acted differently because of the commission.
So while I can see that Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the loan P arranged for them, I dont 
think Openwork did anything wrong when dealing with their request to consolidate their debt. 
So I wont ask it to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman