DRN-3183039
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) unfairly charged interest on his 
credit card account whilst an agreed payment holiday was in force.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr B contacted Tesco to seek support in managing his credit card account 
whilst he was stuck out of the country, and without income, because of the covid-19 
lockdown. 
Mr B had travelled to Africa shortly before lockdown was imposed in March 2020. Since that 
time, hed been unable to make any payments to his credit card account because he had no 
access to the internet and his mobile phone data was unavailable. Two monthly repayments 
had been missed, and late fees had been charged by Tesco.
Tesco agreed to apply a three-month payment holiday (PH 1)  this would run until the end 
of May, following which Mr B would be required to contact Tesco again to review his 
circumstances.
In August Mr B again telephoned Tesco to seek an extension of the payment holiday. This, 
too, was agreed by Tesco (PH 2)  but it also became apparent to Mr B that interest would 
continue to be charged during the holiday (and, indeed, that interest had been added to his 
account during the PH 1). Mr B was unhappy with this and complained that he hadnt 
previously been made aware of it.
Tesco considered Mr Bs complaint but felt that it had done nothing wrong in continuing to 
charge interest on his credit card borrowing whilst allowing the repayment holidays.
Our adjudicator reviewed the complaint and highlighted that, whilst the regulatory guidance 
to lenders did allow for ongoing interest to be charged, it also stated that lenders must 
communicate this fact clearly to borrowers. Tesco had evidently communicated this to Mr B 
before implementing PH 2 and so the adjudicator considered there to be no basis to uphold 
his complaint regarding that repayment holiday. But, because Tesco hadnt done so in 
relation to PH 1, our adjudicators opinion was that it should refund the interest it had applied 
during that repayment holiday.
Because Tesco didnt agree with our adjudicators view, the complaint was passed to me for 
a decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision where I said :
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to credit card 
providers that stated that lenders should offer three-month repayment holidays to customers 
who were experiencing financial difficulties due to circumstances arising out of covid-19.
Ive listened to a recording of Mr Bs phone call with Tesco during April. From this, its 
apparent that Tesco listened to Mr Bs concerns about his prevailing circumstances which 
had arisen because of the covid-19 lockdown arrangements. I can see that Tesco were both 
sympathetic and supportive  and offered, voluntarily, to provide a three-month repayment 
holiday. Moreover, Tesco offered to backdate this to ensure that the two outstanding monthly 
repayments were recognised as having been caused by the covid-19 lockdown. And it also 
offered to refund the two late fees thatd been charged to Mr Bs account.
So, I think that Tesco did follow the FCA guidance in terms of treating Mr B fairly and paying 
due regard to his interests. And I acknowledge that Tescos choice to continue to apply 
interest is entirely within the guidance provided by the FCA.
But, the FCA guidance also specifies: 
A firm should give customers adequate information to understand the implications of a 
payment deferral, including the consequences of interest that is accrued during this period 
and its effect on the balance due under the agreement and on future payments.
The adviser at Tesco did make clear to Mr B that, because he was not applying online for 
the payment holiday, and also given the difficulties in communicating with him whilst he was 
stuck in Africa, he would not receive a confirmation email (which wouldve been normal 
practice). But he did not adequately communicate to him the implications of the payment 
holiday arrangement.
So, despite having acted in good faith and with due regard to Mr Bs situation, I must agree 
with our adjudicator that Tesco didnt adhere to the FCA guidance. I acknowledge Tescos 
statement that it made no suggestion to Mr B of an interest freeze  but, equally, it gave no 
indication that interest would continue to be charged.
The question I must consider is whether, if Tesco had explained clearly to Mr B that interest 
would continue to accrue on his account during the payment holiday, this would have 
dissuaded him from taking the payment holiday. If he had been told about the interest, and 
consequently declined to accept the payment holiday, he wouldve been required to bring the 
account up to date and to continue with monthly repayments as normal.
I can see that when Mr B contacted Tesco in August 2020 to request an extension of the 
payment holiday it was then made clear to him that interest would continue to be charged 
whilst PH 2 was in place. At that point, Mr B went ahead with the payment holiday - despite 
the ongoing accrual of interest.
In all of these circumstances, and given the unusual and difficult predicament he was facing 
at that time, I do think its more likely than not that Mr B wouldve still gone ahead with PH 1 
 even with interest being added.
I recognise that Tescos failure to provide adequate information has led to Mr B being 
confused and upset. To put this right, our adjudicator felt that Tesco should refund the 
interest itd applied to Mr Bs credit card account during PH1. However, as already 
mentioned, Tesco was entirely within its rights in continuing to charge the interest and so I 
dont consider its appropriate to request that this be refunded. But I do concur that some 
redress is appropriate and think that, instead, Tesco should make a payment of 
compensation of £50 to Mr B in recognition of the distress and inconvenience hes suffered 
as a result of its mistake.
As regards PH 2, the FSA guidance allowed for ongoing charging of interest during payment 
holidays, and this was clearly communicated to Mr B when he applied for the extension. I 
dont think that Tesco did anything wrong in relation to PH 2 and so dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint in relation to that.
Both Mr B and Tesco have responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B confirmed he is happy to accept my provisional decision and has nothing further to add. 
Tesco confirmed it has no concerns with my provisional findings.
In these circumstances I see no need to vary from my provisional decision and so I now 
uphold this complaint in part.
Putting things right
To put things right Tesco should pay compensation of £50 to Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and 
require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Richard France
Ombudsman