DRN-3643552
The complaint
Mr G, a named driver under his mother Mrs Gs car insurance policy has complained about 
the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim he made following an incident. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr G was involved in an incident with another vehicle and he reported it to 
the insurer, Admiral. 
As part of its investigation Admiral discovered two motoring convictions in Mr Gs name 
which hadnt been declared when Mrs G bought the policy. It asked Mr G and Mrs G for 
further information including validation documents. Admiral explained that if it had known 
about one of the two motoring convictions, it wouldnt have offered insurance for Mr G. 
Mr G said he wasnt aware of the motoring convictions. So he intended to seek legal advice 
with the intention of having the convictions removed. Admiral agreed to put the claim on hold 
while Mr G made his enquiries. 
However, Mr G was very unhappy with the way Admiral had dealt with the claim. He said he 
was unhappy with the attitude of an agent in a call in December 2021. Mr G didnt agree the 
claim needed to be put on hold as the other party was at fault for the incident and he felt 
Admiral should settle his claim. 
Mr G said he was unhappy with the overall service and communication received from 
Admiral. 
In February 2022 Admiral upheld Mr Gs complaint in part. It was sorry the tone of the agent 
in the December 2021 call had caused further upset. It acknowledged that there were times 
when Mr G had provided documents and they hadnt been reviewed in a timely manner. 
For the inconvenience caused, Admiral paid Mr G £50 compensation. 
It explained that although there had been some poor service, it was entitled to carry out its 
investigation and it hadnt received all of the documents it asked for. Admiral explained that 
this therefore contributed to the delay in progressing Mr Gs claim. 
Mr G contacted us a couple of days before Admiral replied to his complaint. In March 2022 
Mr G raised a number of other issues. 
Mr G said he instructed solicitors to deal with removing the motoring convictions - but he 
believes there is little point in spending a considerable amount of money without 
confirmation that Admiral could deal with the matter otherwise.
Mr G says he has no vehicle now as he cant buy another without paying the outstanding 
finance under the car that was written off in the incident. He explained that this has had dire 
personal consequences and could have caused his business to collapse. He says he needs 
a car for his work.  
Mr G told us in June 2022 that the third party insurer has made a settlement payment to him. 
Mr G raised further issues in relation to car hire payments and concerns about the 
whereabouts of his car. Mr G says Admiral hasnt answered his complaint. 
In July 2022 our Investigator didnt recommend Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. He 
thought Admiral had acted reasonably and the compensation it had paid for some poor 
service was fair. 
Mr G didnt agree with the Investigator and reiterated his concerns around other issues. Our 
Investigator explained that this service can look at the complaints Admiral responded to in 
February 2022. Any new complaints after this date are points Mr G and Mrs G will need to 
first raise with Admiral.
Mr G didnt agree. He believes we should investigate the issues he has raised. So the case 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at whether Admiral resolved Mr Gs complaint in a fair and reasonable way in 
its final response letter dated 25 February 2022. 
I understand Mr G has further complaints about Admiral since this date, but he and/or Mrs G 
needs to first raise these with Admiral to allow it the opportunity to respond. If after receiving 
Admirals response, Mr G and Mrs G remain dissatisfied, they are free to contact us. 
When Mr G reported the incident to Admiral, it investigated the claim and part of its 
investigation includes validating the information a customer has provided when they applied 
for the policy. As the policy is in Mrs Gs name, I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral 
to make enquiries of both Mrs G as the policyholder and Mr G as the driver involved in the 
incident. 
Admiral identified discrepancies in some of the information disclosed when Mrs G bought the 
policy. The address recorded on Mr Gs licence was different and two motoring convictions 
werent declared - one of which would - had Admiral been aware of - meant it wouldnt have 
offered insurance to Mr G when Mrs G applied for the policy. So Admirals investigation 
included the possibility of misrepresentation. 
The relevant law in cases of misrepresentation is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012. There are certain remedies under the Act which - where 
misrepresentation takes place - can allow an insurer to avoid a policy. 
Admiral as part of its investigation discovered information material to the settling of Mr Gs 
claim. So although Mr G believes the settling of the claim and the issue with the motoring 
convictions were unrelated, this isnt the case. 
Admiral accepts that at times it didnt act promptly when it received some documents from 
Mr G which it had asked for. And I appreciate that Mr G feels we havent properly considered 
that he sent large amounts of documents to Admiral which it either didnt deal with or 
delayed dealing with. But Admiral didnt receive all of the information it needed to validate 
the claim. And Admiral - like any insurer - is entitled to make reasonable enquiries in order to 
validate a claim. 
Ultimately Admiral had sufficient evidence to consider avoiding Mrs Gs policy and reject Mr 
Gs claim - based on the evidence from the DVLA in relation to non-disclosed motoring 
convictions. As Mr G said he wasnt aware of the convictions, Admiral said it would put the 
claim on hold to allow Mr G time to seek advice on the issue with the intention of having the 
convictions removed. 
I understand the discovery of the motoring convictions has caused Mr G and his mother Mrs 
G upset and distress. However, this isnt something Admiral is responsible for. And I appreciate that Mr G and his mother Mrs G feel Admiral has caused unnecessary distress by 
the way it has handled the claim.
But Admiral cannot take any steps to deal with the convictions as recorded against Mr Gs 
driving record. This is something Mr G will - as he says he has done - need to consider 
taking action on separately. Even if Admiral had responded more quickly to the documents 
Mr G provided, it didnt change the outcome as to the status of the claim. Until Mr G was 
able to resolve the issue of the motoring convictions in his name, I think Admiral reasonably 
took the decision to put the claim on hold. 
For these reasons, I think the compensation Admiral paid of £50 in February 2022 for its 
poor service was enough to put things right. Im sorry to disappoint Mr G. But this means Im 
not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman