DRN-3303430
The complaint
Mr K complains about Aviva for a failure by its agent to identify and repair a leak at his 
home. He wants Aviva to apologise and to repair the damage the leak caused to his home.
What happened
Mr K had a home care policy with Aviva which provided cover for his plumbing and drainage.
In April 2021, Mr K contacted Aviva to report that he believed that there was a leak in the 
pipes. He believed this because the boiler was losing pressure and needed to be refilled 
around every 5 days.
An engineer attended his home and noted that the pressure release valve of the boiler was 
passing water. This was because the refill valve had not been fully closed when Mr K last 
refilled it. 
The engineer advised Mr K that he needed a new boiler. Mr K explained he was not able to 
afford a new boiler and he wanted his boiler system to be repaired.
It does not appear that the engineer carried out investigations into the pipework on that visit.
The engineer left Mr Ks home and made a referral for boiler advice. As a result, Mr K 
received multiple calls regarding a new boiler.
Mr K noted that the loss in pressure continued and deteriorated. Mr K reports that the boiler 
was ultimately was losing so much water that the system needed to be refilled every day.
In May 2021, Aviva sent a further engineer to Mr Ks home. They located a leaking pipe 
which was leaking water into a ceiling, causing damage to the decoration of that room. They 
repaired the leak and Mr K reports that the boiler then stopped losing pressure.
Mr K complained to Aviva. He felt that the initial engineer had not carried out a proper 
inspection and had focussed too much on advising Mr K to replace his boiler. He was upset 
that he had been referred for advice and sales for a new boiler, despite making clear he did 
not want one.
Aviva sent its final response to Mr K in May 2021. Aviva acknowledged that the leak ought to 
have been identified on the first visit, and it accepted that the consequential damage to Mr 
Ks home was made worse by the delay in repairing the leak. Aviva was not able to 
determine what was agreed about whether Mr K wanted to be referred for new boiler advice.
Aviva offered Mr K £125 compensation towards his home repairs, and £100 compensation 
for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr K remained unhappy and contacted us.  
Our investigator looked into this matter and acknowledged the failings of Aviva. He felt, 
however, that on the information available, the offer of compensation was appropriate to put 
things right. He therefore thought that Aviva had done enough.
Mr K did not accept that decision.
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this complaint in January 2022. 
In that provisional decision I set out that I thought Aviva had delayed in identifying the leak, 
and that this delay had caused the damage to continue for longer, and to be worse, that if it 
had been promptly stopped. I noted that there was no evidence of a leak before the first visit 
and so I therefore thought that Aviva should pay the market costs of repairs to Mr Ks home, 
and should also pay him £200 compensation. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Aviva has accepted the provisional decision. 
Mr K has advised us that he accepts the compensation part of the decision, but that he is 
unable to now obtain quotes for the redecoration work as he has engaged a contractor who 
is due to start work very soon. He therefore does not think it fair to waste other contractors 
time in obtaining quotes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am pleased that both parties accept the basis of my provisional decision, and my 
assessment of Mr Ks distress and inconvenience. I adopt my decision to uphold the 
complaint and my reasoning from my provisional decision as my final decision. 
In respect of the direction, I appreciate Mr Ks comments that it would not be fair to invite 
other contractors to quote for the redecoration work now that he has agreed for the work to 
be undertaken by his contractor.  
Putting things right
I therefore think that Mr K should obtain from his chosen contractor a detailed invoice, 
setting out a breakdown of the work done and the costs of labour and materials, and that 
Aviva should reimburse him the cost of his chosen contractor, without reference to other 
quotes. 
This ought to reflect the real market rate for the work, and the rate Mr K paid, and so I would 
not expect Aviva to challenge the invoice. 
If Aviva considers that the invoice charged is excessive, and that it is not reflective of the 
market rate for the repairs, then Aviva may make an offer of lower settlement. It would then 
be open to Mr K to make a further complaint about any reduction in settlement if he 
considers Avivas actions unfair
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mr K for the costs of his chosen contractor, within 28 days of Mr K 
providing an invoice and breakdown of the costs; and 
To pay to Mr K £200 for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman