DRN-3302823
The complaint
Miss C is complaining that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. ELL 
didnt agree that the complaint should be upheld, it says it checks showed Miss C had 
sufficient disposable income to afford the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
ELL needed was required to carry out checks to make sure Miss C could afford the 
repay the loans without it adversely impacting her financial circumstances. I think 
ELL carried out sufficient checks.
However, its checks showed that Miss C was likely to struggle to repay this loan. Her 
bank statements show she was reliant on credit as she was borrowing and repaying 
at least seven other high cost lenders, she was also repaying an active County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) and from the information at the point of sale, the loan was only 
due consolidate the home lending, although ELL now seems to suggest that its 
calculation took into account consolidating the other loans. Either way, it was clear 
that this consumer was reliant on credit and further lending would likely have an 
adverse impact on her.
On this basis, I have concluded that ELL shouldnt have lent the loan to Miss C and it 
needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
Treat any payments made by Miss C as payments towards the capital amount of 
£1,500,
If Miss C has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded 
to with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, ELL should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss C.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. Everyday 
Lending must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Cs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman