DRN-4003055
The complaint
Mr A says there were delays and poor communication from AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited and its agent after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy, and 
that an apology was an insufficient response to his concerns.
What happened
Mr A made a claim in May 2022. His car was written-off and he accepted the final offer made 
for it by AA on 17 June 2022. Mr A wanted to retain his car (which was with AAs agent, firm 
E). He says there was a delay in getting it back and that firm E was hard to get hold of, 
which meant he had to call it more than should have been necessary. AA apologised for the 
delay caused by firm E and said feedback had been given to it. Mr A also said AAs 
communication should have been better and that there were delays in its replies to emails.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint. She noted that he had to chase AA for a 
response to two emails he sent to it in June 2022, as its response took seven days. She also 
noted that AA had accepted that there were delays in Mr As car being returned to him. She 
thought AA should pay him £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience. AA said it 
thought up to 14 days to respond to emails was reasonable, given the volume of queries it 
deals with. The investigator didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AA accepts that its agent caused a delay in delivering his car back to Mr A, which led to 
frustration on his part and meant he spent time chasing firm E when that was avoidable. I 
can see why he was upset by that. In terms of AAs replies to Mr As emails, I think it was 
reasonable for him to expect it to respond within a couple of days  especially when hed 
made it clear that he was already concerned about firm Es poor service. In my opinion, 
seven days was an excessive time without a response. I appreciate that AA is inundated 
with queries from its customers, but the same applies to all insurers.
I think AA handled the claim reasonably overall. It offered a fair sum to Mr A for the car 
within a reasonable time  and he was kept in hire throughout. But as some of the service 
provided by AA and its agent could have been better, I dont think its unreasonable for it to 
pay him £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I think that sum, added to AAs 
apology, provides a fair resolution to Mr As complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr A £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman