DRN-3856753
The complaint
Miss F complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made 
on her motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Miss F made a claim on her policy following an accident. But she was unhappy that 
Advantage said her car was a write-off without inspecting it. And that it wouldnt tell her the 
retention fee unless she accepted its settlement offer. She was also unhappy with delays in 
the claim. Advantage said it had incorrectly told Miss F it would provide a retention value 
before she accepted its valuation of her car. And it agreed Miss F had spent a lot of time on 
calls. So it paid her £50 compensation for this. But Miss F remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Miss F 
initially declined Advantages offer to collect her car for inspection as the damage was just 
cosmetic. And so he thought it reasonably declared it a write-off as it was entitled to do by 
the policys terms and conditions. 
Miss F then agreed to an inspection, as she wanted to keep her car. Advantages agent 
agreed it was a write-off. He thought Advantage had made an error by not telling Miss F its 
retention value until a week later. But he thought its offer of compensation was fair and 
reasonable. He didnt see any significant delays in the claim and so he couldnt say that 
Advantage had deprived Miss F of her car for two months. 
Miss F replied that it took Advantage two months to settle her claim and she thought this 
wasnt prompt. She said Advantages agent hadnt explained its role to assess her car which 
was why she had declined for it to be collected. She said Advantage provided her with the 
retention figure only after she complained to us. She said Advantage refused to return her 
car and so left her without it for two months. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. Ive looked at Miss Fs account 
and submission and Advantages file to understand what has happened in this matter. 
I can see that Advantage emailed Miss F the day she reported her claim to say that, from her 
description, her car looked to be beyond economical repair. It isnt unusual for insurers to 
use a desk top tool to assess repair costs and make a decision that a car is likely to be a 
total loss. 
I can see that Miss Fs policy doesnt provide a courtesy car in the case of total loss. Miss F 
thought this shouldnt apply as her car was later deemed to be repairable. But Im satisfied 
that the car was deemed to be beyond economical repair and a total loss. And so Miss F 
wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under her policys terms and conditions. 
Miss F declined for Advantages salvage agents to collect her car. And I think Advantage 
should have better explained to Miss F at the time that this was for assessment. But 
Advantage asked Miss F for photos of the damage for its engineer to confirm the cars 
condition. And it said that, following this, its salvage agent would collect Miss Fs car. 
Miss F sent in her photographs and Advantages engineers assessed them and confirmed 
that the car was a total loss. Advantage made Miss F an offer in settlement of the claim 
twelve days after the notification. The salvage agents collected the car and confirmed the 
assessment. 
Miss F then called Advantage to say that she wanted to retain the cars salvage and wanted 
the car returned to her for a further inspection. Advantage incorrectly told Miss F that it could 
provide a retention figure before she had accepted the valuation, but it didnt then provide 
this. And Advantage told Miss F that collecting the car would be at her own expense. 
Miss F thought she was being denied her car. But I think Advantage wanted to clarify 
whether she wanted to continue with her claim or withdraw it. Advantage hasnt been able to 
locate these calls, so I havent been able to listen to them. But I can see that Advantages file 
notes confirm this. 
A day after she collected the car, Advantage emailed Miss F to give her the retention fee if 
she wished to buy back her car. It said it did this outside its usual process in order to not 
cause delays. So Im satisfied that Miss F had this information and so she could make an 
informed decision about her claim within about a week of asking for it. 
Our Investigator has already explained that it isnt unusual for insurers to provide a retention 
figure only after the cars valuation has been accepted This is because a change in the 
valuation could change the retention figure. And, although I can understand Miss Fs 
frustration, I cant say that this is unreasonable. 
Miss F accepted the valuation and retention figure three weeks later. And she provided her 
bank details for the payment a further week later. So I cant say that Advantage was 
responsible for this months delay. Miss F had her car during this time, and it passed its MOT 
and so it was driveable. So I cant say that Advantage deprived Miss F of her car or caused 
her to be without transport during this time. 
So Im satisfied that Advantage corrected its initial error by going outside its normal process 
and providing Miss F with the cars retention value before she accepted the valuation. I think 
it reasonably compensated Miss F for this and for the calls she made for her claim. 
I can understand that being without her car caused inconvenience for Miss F and her family. 
But I cant see that Advantage caused any unavoidable delays in the claim. I think Miss F 
took some weeks to accept the valuation and retention figure. She had this information about 
three weeks after the accident. And I dont think Advantage deprived Miss F of transport. 
And so I dont require Advantage to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman