DRN-4068915
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) prevented him from purchasing shares 
on its online platform. He wants Barclays to apologise and pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr B had a share dealing account provided by Barclays. On 12 October 2022 he tried to buy 
shares in a company Ill refer to as S. But he said the online system of Barclays blocked 
him from making the trade.
In response Barclays said the following:
There were no systems issues on the day in question and no blocks on Mr Bs 
account that wouldve stopped him making a trade.
Mr B sent Barclays an image of a symbol which he said was similar to the error 
message he saw when he tried to make the trade. The symbol was a red no entry 
symbol and it was similar to the type that normally indicates a problem with the users 
browser, network security or device.
Mr B had received a message saying Your quote request cant be processed. That 
message meant the shares Mr B wanted to purchase werent available on the market 
at the time  not that there was an error with the Barclays system.
Between 11.30am and 11.40am on 12 October 2022 there was no trading of S 
shares and so Mr B wouldnt have been able to purchase S at that time. He might 
also have been unable to buy S shares shortly after that if the market was particularly 
busy.
Mr B couldve contacted Barclays by phone or online chat when he found he was 
unable to trade. Barclays could then have checked for and dealt with any errors.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with the response from Barclays. So he referred his complaint to this 
service. In his complaint he said:
He tried to buy S shares repeatedly, for more than 20 minutes. Each time he 
progressed to the point of execution and then received the message Your quote 
request cannot be processed, please retry.
Mr B had received that message previously, when trying to buy shares that were 
experiencing price volatility.
The message was accompanied by a symbol with a red circle and the Barclays logo 
which Mr B had emailed. Barclays was wrong to say the message wasnt from 
Barclays.
There was no indication trading of S was suspended.
During his first couple of attempts Mr B saw a buy/sell spread but after that he saw 
only a single price.
Using a phone service or online chat was a poor substitute for online trading and 
Mr B expected they wouldnt have been effective if trading in S was difficult or 
suspended, and based on Mr Ss previous experience with Barclays customer 
service.
Mr B said the impact on him was that hed missed out on making money via a large increase 
in the share price of S. And hed suffered annoyance and frustration during the complaints 
process. He wanted Barclays to acknowledge the error messages hed received were from 
Barclays and to apologise for saying they werent. And he wanted to be compensated for 
financial loss and given an ex-gratia payment for how Barclays had handled his complaint.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. He said he didnt think Barclays 
needed to do anything. He said hed seen no evidence the Barclays systems hadnt worked 
as expected. And the period of time in which S shares werent tradable would explain Mr Bs 
problems trying to buy the shares. The Investigator also said that, even though he didnt 
think the Barclays platform was responsible for the problems Mr B experienced, it would be 
reasonable for Barclays to suggest making phone contact to resolve any issues that did 
occur when trading online.
Mr B said he wanted an Ombudsman to review his complaint because the Investigator didnt 
address what he said about Barclays denying that the error messages he received were 
from Barclays, and the fact the messages didnt say trading in S was suspended.
Because no agreement could be reached, this complaint was passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive found that, on balance, the evidence suggests Barclays didnt prevent Mr Bs trade. As 
part of considering Mr Bs complaint about that, Ive considered what Barclays said to him 
about the error messages he received. And Ive found that the comments from Barclays 
about that were fair and reasonable.
Barclays has said it has no record of any faults in its own systems on the day which wouldve 
prevented Mr B from making the trade. And Barclays provided evidence showing trading in S 
was suspended for a time on the day Mr B tried to buy shares in S. This aligns with the fact 
that on 12 October 2022 there was a shareholders briefing for S and a dividend suspension 
announcement which is likely to have caused price volatility. I think thats likely to mean that 
share trading in S was difficult on that day and Mr B was likely to have difficulty buying S 
shares, even for some time outside the window in which the shares were untradable. The 
Barclays website shows that the current version of the Terms for Barclays investment 
accounts includes the following:
2.2.3 Quote & Deal Order This is an Order you may give us to buy or sell a Security 
at a specified price made available to you through us whilst the relevant market is 
open  If you do: (a) we will obtain an immediate quote to deal from a Counterparty 
who is able and willing to accept the Order, subject to market conditions. (b) we will endeavour to give you an opportunity to accept that quote within a period not 
exceeding 15 seconds. (c) while you decide, this quote may be withdrawn by the 
Counterparty prior to the expiry of the period available to you to accept it due to 
various conditions that include market liquidity, Order size and volatility of the 
Investment. A Quote & Deal Order, if accepted by you, guarantees Execution and 
dealing at the price specified if there is a willing Counterparty for the whole Order, 
subject to market behaviours.
These terms, or similar, were likely to have been in place at the time of Mr Bs attempted 
trade. And so I think Mr B ought to have been aware that there might be times  for reasons 
like market liquidity and volatility  that he would be unable to deal even after seeing a 
quote. Mr B has acknowledged the error message he saw was one he had received in the 
past when trading during times of price volatility. And his reason for trying to buy shares in S 
on 12 October 2022 appears to have been to benefit from price volatility.
So, taking all of this into account, I think its more likely than not that the reason Mr B was 
unable to purchase the shares he wanted on 12 October 2022 was due to market conditions 
rather than an error in Barclays systems.
Mr B says he received error messages which were sent by Barclays and which show the 
fault was with Barclays systems. In considering this I think its important to note that if a 
message about failure to execute a trade was sent by Barclays that doesnt necessarily 
mean the cause of the failure is a fault in Barclays systems. I also note that in this case 
Barclays has acknowledged that Mr B received a message from Barclays which said Your 
quote request cannot be processed. Barclays said that message indicated that the shares 
he wanted to buy werent available for purchase.
So Barclays didnt deny sending Mr B that message, but it said the message didnt indicate 
an error on the part of Barclays. And Barclays described the type of error message Mr B 
wouldve received if thered been an error in Barclays systems  it said Mr B wouldve 
received an error code. Mr B didnt say he received an error code.
Mr B told us the red no entry symbol accompanied the message from Barclays saying his 
quote request couldnt be processed. Barclays appears to have thought Mr B referred to a 
different error message when he described the red no entry symbol. In any case, whether or 
not Barclays agreed that the message it sent to Mr B included a symbol similar to the no 
entry symbol, Barclays didnt deny sending a message to Mr B that said his trade couldnt 
be executed. So I dont think Barclays was dishonest and I dont think the message Mr B 
received shows there was a fault on the part of Barclays.
Mr B mentioned in response to our Investigators view that the error messages from Barclays 
didnt say trading in S was suspended. I also dont think this shows Barclays caused Mr B to 
be unable to trade shares in S. Barclays has provided evidence showing that trading in S 
was unavailable for a time on the day Mr B attempted to buy shares in S. And  as Ive said 
 this is consistent with other evidence about market conditions for S on that day. Whether 
or not he knew at the time that it was the case, the unavailability of S shares for trading  
and related volatility  is likely to have caused Mr Bs problem trading in S at that time.
Overall, the response from Barclays to Mr Bs complaint doesnt indicate that Barclays was 
dishonest about the circumstances surrounding Mr Bs attempted trade. And taking into 
account that, and all the other available information and arguments, I think the evidence 
shows that Barclays didnt prevent Mr Bs trade.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Lucinda Puls
Ombudsman