DRN-4434240
The complaint
Miss A complains that Evolution Lending Limited (Evolution) lent to her irresponsibly as she 
had numerous debts at the time she took out her secured loan. She also says that Evolution 
didnt treat her fairly when she was in financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss A took out a second charge mortgage for £5,500 with Evolution in December 2018 in 
order to consolidate debt.
Miss A says that she took out the loan to consolidate some outstanding debt. However, she 
says that Evolution didnt check any of her bank statements and didnt ask for proof that the 
other debts had been cleared after it gave her the loan. She says that a full check of her 
credit file would have shown that she had a huge amount of debt including payday loans. 
Miss A also says that throughout the loan she encountered a number of problems which 
resulted in financial difficulties and also had a baby which meant she had a significantly 
reduced income. However, she says that Evolution was unsympathetic and wouldnt let her 
reduce her monthly payments after she explained her situation, so she felt pressured to 
make the contractual payments.
Miss A says that her financial situation and the service she received from Evolution affected 
her mental health. She was signed off work for eight months in 2020 and had to borrow 
money from family and friends after having a baby as Evolution wouldnt allow her to reduce 
her payments when her income was reduced. Miss A would therefore like Evolution to refund 
all the interest she has paid and to remove any adverse information from her credit file.
Evolution says that it is a specialist lender which seeks to help consumers access credit 
where they would typically be refused by other lenders who base their decisions solely on 
traditional credit scores or credit reports. It says that it does this by completing a detailed and 
evidence-based affordability assessment and ensuring that affordability, suitability and 
sustainability are assessed.
Evolution says that the relevant checks were completed during Miss As application to 
ensure the loan was affordable and sustainable for her, including proof of her income and 
expenditure (I&E). It says that it considered the payday loans taken by Miss A. The aim of 
Miss A consolidating her debts was to make the payments more manageable and break the 
cycle of payday loans. Evolution says there was a clear benefit to the loan, as there was a 
significant reduction to her monthly outgoings.
Evolution provided a quote for the loan and Miss A confirmed she was happy with the terms 
verbally. She was then sent a copy of the application pack to review which included the 
mortgage illustration with the key terms and rates and a copy of the loan agreement.
Evolution says that on the occasions it was made aware that Miss A was struggling to meet 
her contractual monthly payments (CMPs), it completed I&E assessments to take into 
account her essentials and priority bills. It says that it offered the possibility of agreeing 
reduced payment plans and made her aware of places she could get independent debt 
advice. Evolution says that on each occasion Miss A made the decision to continue to make 
the CMP and no undue pressure was applied to her to make the payments.
Our investigator looked at the case and concluded that Evolution didnt do anything wrong 
when underwriting Miss As loan application or dealing with periods of financial difficulty for 
her. He was of the view that Evolution had considered Miss As income and that the 
outgoings shown on the bank statements it relied upon demonstrated that the loan was 
affordable. This was especially considering that the loan was for debt consolidation and gave 
Miss A a monthly saving of £215.07. The investigator found that it wasnt Evolutions 
responsibility to check that Miss A had used the funds for the declared purpose. In relation to 
Miss As financial difficulties, the investigator was of the view that Evolutions resolution on 
each occasion it was contacted by Miss A was in line with what he would expect and in line 
with the relevant regulations. 
Miss A disagreed with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. She said that 
she was very young when the loan was taken out so didnt believe Evolution did enough to 
make sure she knew what she was agreeing to. She maintained that the loan was given to 
her unfairly and, as a result of the lender not checking she had paid the other debts off, the 
funds were used for other things putting her further in debt.
I set out in my provisional decision dated 15 September 2023 (reproduced below) why I was 
minded to uphold Miss As complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence by 13 October 2023.
Miss A responded to say that she had no further points to make. Evolution also responded to 
say that it had reviewed my findings and, whilst there were some minor points it didnt agree 
with, overall it agreed with the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision dated 15 September 2023, I 
remain of the view that Evolution lent irresponsibly and that this complaint should be upheld. 
In my provisional decision I set out the following:
Having looked at the evidence, I disagree with the investigators view and Ive 
explained my reasons further below in relation to the irresponsible lending and 
financial difficulties elements in turn. On the evidence Ive seen so far, Im minded to 
find that Miss As loan was lent irresponsibly by Evolution. 
Irresponsible Lending
The loan taken out by Miss A in December 2018 was for £5,500 over a term of four 
years. Added to this was a product fee of £550 and an administration fee of £499. 
The monthly payment was £229.91, with the total interest payable being £4,486 and 
total amount repayable being £11,035.40. The loan was on a variable rate of 32.46% 
(APRC 47.65%).
Evolution says that it directly consolidated five lines of credit, with the remaining 
funds transferred directly to Miss A. Some of these were to be used to clear her 
overdraft and repay a loan to a family member. Based on the information in the bank 
statements, Evolution says Miss A was paying approximately £444.98 to her 
creditors which was due to be consolidated (including £100 per month for her 
overdraft). After the consolidation, the monthly payment to Evolution would be 
£229.91, which reduced her monthly expenses by £215.07.
Miss As secured loan is a regulated mortgage contract which means that the 
regulators rules on mortgage lending (known as MCOB) apply. At the time Miss A took out the loan, these rules set out  in summary  that its the responsibility of the 
lender to carry out a detailed affordability assessment. MCOB sets out some of the 
key requirements, including (but not limited to):
A lender must assess whether a consumer will be able to pay the mortgage 
repayments, not just at the start but over the term
A lender must not enter into the mortgage agreement unless it can 
demonstrate that the mortgage is affordable for the consumer
A lender must take full account of the customers income, and must obtain 
adequate evidence of the income declared by the consumer 
A lender must take full account of the customers committed expenditure 
(credit and contractual commitments) and take reasonable steps to obtain 
details of the customers actual outstanding commitments 
A lender must take full account of the customers basic essential expenditure 
and quality of living costs of the customers household
The rules set out requirements and guidance in relation to the assessment of a 
consumers expenditure. In particular, MCOB 11.6.12 sets out that for the purposes 
of its assessment of whether the customer will be able to pay the sums due a lender 
may generally rely on any evidence of income or information on expenditure 
provided by the customer unless, taking a common sense view, it has reason to 
doubt the evidence or information. In other words, its acceptable for a lender to rely 
on information about expenditure given by an applicant without seeking evidence to 
corroborate it  unless there are grounds to doubt what is said.
Evolution did obtain a copy of Miss As credit report and a bank statement for two of 
her accounts, the first covering the period of 1 November to 3 December 2018 for 
what appears to be her main bank account, and the second covering the period of 29 
October to 28 November 2018 for another current account with a different bank. So I 
accept that it did take reasonable steps to obtain details of her actual credit 
commitments as it was required to do under MCOB 11.6.13. However, I think once 
Evolution obtained these documents that should have led it to question what Miss A 
had said about her expenditure on credit commitments and living and other expenses 
 for a number of reasons which I will expand upon below. 
Evolution says it validated the information provided by Miss A by reviewing proof of 
her income (three months wage slips) and proof of expenditure (34 days bank 
statements). It says this confirmed that Miss A had disposable income of £41.94 after 
the inclusion of the payment to Evolution. It says this accounted for Miss As priority, 
committed and essential expenditure and the loan was therefore assessed as 
affordable and sustainable for the term. Having looked at the bank statements, I 
disagree that no further outgoings were apparent over and above those entered on 
the I&E.
Ive looked at the bank statements provided to Evolution and there are a number of 
transactions shown which dont seem to be accurately reflected in the outgoings in 
the I&E:  
During the first phone call on 3 December 2018, the advisor went through 
Miss As credit report and referred to one of her credit cards which hadnt 
been paid for four months (not the credit card which was being consolidated). 
Miss A told the advisor that she was in an arrangement with this bank to pay 
£50 a month (but more when she could). The advisor checked that Miss A 
had paid this for the previous month and told her that if this wasnt being paid 
over a certain period of time, Evolution would have to allocate 3% of the balance to the I&E which would amount to £220 a month (as the outstanding 
balance was over £7,000). I note that the advisor said that if he put this in, 
alongside Miss As mortgage and other debts, the loan would be unaffordable 
for her. Miss A confirmed that she was paying £50 a month towards this credit 
card during the I&E call later that day and I can see from the bank statement 
provided to Evolution that a £50 payment was made to this credit card (and 
annotated as such by Evolution) on 20 November 2018. However, in the I&E 
there are no outgoings noted in the fields for either credit cards or 
arrangements.
During the I&E call on 3 December 2018, Miss A said that she spent no more 
than £100 a month on food, which included household and toiletry items. The 
I&E has included a figure of £169 for food. The bank statement for Miss As 
main account has been annotated by Evolution and numerous transactions 
have been marked as food. There are other transactions on the statement 
which seem to relate to supermarkets but havent been labelled as such and it 
is unclear why. In any event, even including only the transactions which 
Evolution itself has marked as food, the total amount is £393.94, which is 
significantly higher (by £224.94) than the £169 used in the I&E.
Miss A said during the I&E call that she had a music subscription which was 
£15 a month. I can see from the bank statement provided by Miss A that a 
payment of £14.99 was made in respect of this (along with two other 
payments to the same provider totalling £3.78). There are no outgoings noted 
in the field for media in the I&E spreadsheet and I cant see that this has been 
taken into account anywhere else.
Miss A said during the I&E call that she spent a fiver here or there when she 
had it on gambling, with an average spend of £30 a month but sometimes 
less and never really more than that. Evolution has confirmed that the entry of 
£30 under Other in the I&E relates to the gambling expenditure. The bank 
statement shows that, for the month up to 3 December 2018, she spent £151 
on gambling transactions, which is significantly higher (by £121) than the £30 
used in the I&E. Whilst I accept that there were gambling winnings paid into 
the account of £270, this cannot be considered to be guaranteed income. 
On the bank statements (including both the main and secondary accounts) 
there are regular transfers to one person in particular, totaling £164.71 (over 
11 transactions) for the month up to 3 December 2018. There are also 
payments of £20 (over two transactions) to another person and a payment of 
£130 to mum. Evolution hasnt provided any information to indicate that it 
questioned these transactions and I cant see that they have been taken into 
account in the I&E.
The bank statement for the main account shows that £230 was withdrawn in 
cash during the month up to 3 December 2018. Evolution hasnt provided any 
information to indicate that it questioned what the cash was used for and I 
cant see that any of this has been taken into account in the I&E.
The statement for Miss As secondary account shows that she paid £27 for 
overdraft fees during the month up to 28 November 2018. It was intended that 
the overdraft for her main account would be paid off by this loan and the fees 
for that overdraft therefore werent included in the I&E. However, there was 
no suggestion that Miss A would be paying off the overdraft in the secondary 
account, yet in the I&E there are no outgoings noted for this overdraft. In addition to the outgoings supported by the bank statements made available to 
Evolution, there is also another figure which Miss A declared during the I&E call on 3 
December 2018 which doesnt appear to have been accounted for on the I&E 
statement when calculating her expenditure:
Miss A said that she was paying a phone bill she took out for her ex-partners 
mother which amounted to £190 as she was paying this off at £10 a month. 
There are no outgoings noted in the field for mobile telephone on the I&E and 
I cant see that this has been taken into account anywhere else.  
Having looked at the I&E statement, it is clear what the majority of the figures relate 
to and  other than the amounts entered for food and gambling referred to above  
the amounts which have been entered are generally consistent with what was 
declared by Miss A and/or what appears on the bank statements. Evolution has 
confirmed that the figure on the I&E of £122 for Housekeeping relates to clothing 
expenditure of £62 a month and socialising of £60 a month and that the figure on the 
I&E of £30 for Other relates to gambling expenditure. So the outgoings above 
appear not to have been taken into account in the I&E. 
In respect of the £50 for the credit arrangement, the £14.99 music subscription, and 
the £10 for the phone bill, Miss A clearly declared these expenses to Evolution (and 
there was evidence in the bank statements for the first two), yet they have still not 
been entered as outgoings in the I&E. Taking just these figures into account, they 
amount to an additional £74.99 a month expenditure for Miss A which has not been 
included in the I&E.
The I&E shows figures of £169 for food, £30 for gambling (under other) and nothing 
for overdraft. But the bank statements available to Evolution show an additional 
£224.94 expenditure on food (£393.94 in total), an additional £121 expenditure on 
gambling (£151 in total) and £27 for the overdraft on the secondary account. This 
amounts to an additional £372.94 a month overall, which also hasnt been included in 
the I&E.
It doesnt appear that Evolution has used any of the information available to it in the 
bank statements to question whether the outgoings in the I&E are accurate despite 
having reason to doubt the evidence or information it had been provided by Miss A 
about her outgoings.
On top of this, there is the £314.71 transferred to others and the £230 of cash 
withdrawals over the course of the month up to 3 December 2018. It doesnt appear 
that Evolution has asked any questions in relation to what these figures were for and 
whether they were regular expenditure for Miss A. In any event, none of these 
amounts have been included in the I&E either.
Given that Miss As disposable income was calculated to be only £41.94 without any 
of these outgoings being included, it is my view that, had they been included as they 
should have been, the loan would clearly have been unaffordable for Miss A. 
Whilst the loan reduced Miss As monthly expenditure by consolidating some  but 
not all  of her debts, it increased her overall indebtedness by almost £3,000. This 
was due to the additional amount of £3,203 on top of the consolidation (less the 
overdraft of around £1,400 she was paying off), along with the product fee of £550 
and an administration fee of £499). It also meant that the debt was secured against 
her home over 4 years which would add a significant amount of interest to the 
amount she initially borrowed and mean that her home could be repossessed if she 
was unable to maintain the repayments.  For the reasons above, I dont think Evolution carried out adequate checks having 
regard to the information it held about Miss As financial circumstances, particularly 
given the fact the loan would be secured against her home. 
Had Evolution considered whether the information in its possession gave common-
sense grounds for doubting what was on the I&E, as I think it fairly should have done, 
I think it ought reasonably to have questioned whether the loan was affordable and 
sustainable for Miss A. And given that it was secured on her property, the impact of 
that on Miss A could be significant. I think this ought to have led Evolution, acting 
fairly, to question whether it was responsible to lend in these circumstances.
I think the information available supports that the loan was not affordable or 
sustainable for Miss A. It is my view that had Evolution properly reviewed the 
information available to it, it would not have been able to demonstrate that the loan 
was affordable or sustainable for Miss A. 
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Evolution to offer Miss A the loan secured 
against her home. I am of the view that it didnt carry out sufficient checks and, had it 
done so, it would have shown that the loan was unaffordable and unsustainable for 
Miss A and should not have been offered. In all the circumstances I am minded to 
find that Evolution lent irresponsibly. 
Whilst I dont think the loan should have been given, Miss A has had the benefit of 
the money borrowed, so I think it right that she should have to repay that amount. 
However, had the loan not been given then she would not have had to pay the fees, 
charges or interest incurred on this. 
In order to put things right, Evolution should remove all interest, and the fees it 
charged, from the loan balance. It should treat all payments Miss A has made to date 
as being repayments of capital. It should then re-calculate the outstanding balance 
and reach a sustainable arrangement with Miss A for the repayment of the remaining 
outstanding capital balance. It should also remove any adverse entries associated 
with this loan from Miss As credit file.
I recognise that this is not an ideal way of putting things right  it doesnt take into 
account the fact that Miss A did consolidate some (though by no means all) of her 
existing debts, and has therefore, through my award, saved interest on that debt she 
would otherwise have paid. However, given the interest rates charged by Evolution, 
and the difficulty of estimating what Miss A would have paid towards other debts, I 
think its reasonable to take a relatively simple approach to resolving this matter by 
simply saying that Evolution should not retain fees and interest on money it ought not 
fairly to have lent. Im satisfied that this is as close to fair compensation as it is 
reasonably possible to get in this case. 
So I recognise that there is likely to have been some saving through consolidating 
high-interest short-term loan and credit card debt into the secured loan, albeit I dont 
think I can accurately estimate that saving, and I dont think its likely to be very 
substantial. However, my award for financial loss will result in Miss A having paid no 
interest on any of the consolidated debt. In recognition of the fact that this may, to 
some extent, leave Miss A over-compensated, I do not intend to award further 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience in addition to that award. 
Financial Difficulties
Miss A says that Evolution was unsympathetic when she was in financial difficulties 
and wouldnt let her reduce her monthly payments.
Evolution says that Miss A was maintaining the CMP until 20 May 2020, when she 
went into arrears. Ive seen the contact log between Miss A and Evolution and 
listened to the relevant calls.Miss A contacted Evolution on 28 July 2020 as she was unable to make the July 
payment due to being off work sick and getting half of her normal pay. She had 
recently returned to work so said she would be able to make the CMP going forward. 
It was agreed that she would not pay the July payment as she didnt have enough to 
do so. Miss A was told that this would affect her credit file. An I&E assessment was 
completed and showed disposable income of £175.09 after the monthly repayment 
and it was agreed that she would pay the CMP plus £60 a month towards the arrears 
(around £360) and this would be reviewed in October. Miss A said that she hoped to 
be able to clear all of the arrears then as she wanted to do this as soon as possible. 
On this occasion, Evolution agreed that Miss A didnt need to make the CMP for July 
as it wasnt affordable for her. It also made an arrangement going forward based on 
the information provided by Miss A, which she agreed to. So I think Evolution has 
treated Miss A fairly.
On 19 August 2020, Miss A contacted Evolution as she was unable to make the full 
payment along with the £60 towards the arrears the following day due to her partner 
being out of work and having to pay for car repairs of £800. The advisor said that 
they would work with her but if it made an arrangement it needed to be satisfied that 
Miss A would be able to keep to this and, if she wasnt making the CMP, the arrears 
were going up. It was agreed that Miss A would cancel the direct debit at her bank 
and that she would review her finances and call back the following day to make a 
payment of £100 and discuss what they could do on the account. 
Following this, I cant see that Miss A called or that any further discussion was 
entered into until Miss A called again on 18 September 2020, when she advised that 
she was unable to make the full CMP due to some unexpected car repairs. It was 
agreed that she would make a payment of £30 that month and pay the next CMP in 
full plus £100 towards the arrears. She was advised that her credit file would show as 
three payments in arrears.
Again, I dont think Evolution has treated Miss A unfairly. Each time she contacted it, 
it agreed to accept a lower payment and to put an arrangement in place going 
forwards which Miss A agreed to. So I think Evolution has tried to work with Miss A to 
get the mortgage back on track.
On 20 January 2021, Miss A called to discuss the arrangement of making additional 
payments as she was on maternity leave. She explained that she was receiving a full 
pay of £1,300 for the next two to three months but then it would go down to about 
£600 a month. She said that she was trying to pay as much as she can and could 
make the CMP but the extra £100 would be a stretch this month. The advisor said 
that they didnt think it was in Miss As best interests to continue paying the additional 
arrangement amount now while she was trying to save money and it was therefore 
agreed that Miss A would continue to just make the CMP while she was receiving full 
pay and that the situation would be reviewed when this changed. The adviser was 
concerned that when the pay dropped the loan wouldnt be affordable for Miss A and 
explained that the loan had been recapitalised so was not currently in arrears. 
Again, I think Evolution has treated Miss A fairly here as it agreed that she didnt 
have to pay the additional amount before her pay reduced due to maternity leave. I 
also note that Miss A thanked the advisor and said that she was glad that she had 
called and that the advisor had been really helpful.
On 20 April 2021, Miss A called to advise that her pay was going to reduce to £600 a 
month and that she would receive £200 a month from her ex-partner. She was 
advised that Evolution would look to help over that period but that it didnt offer 
payment holidays so any arrangement would mean that the account would go into 
arrears which would have an impact on her credit file, but that it wouldnt seek to take any further action in relation to the arrears. Miss A advised that she would make the 
next two payments and agreed to call in June when her wage was due to change so 
that her circumstances could be reviewed to establish what was affordable. She said 
that her plan was to go back to work in January and make the full payment in addition 
to paying towards the arrears. The advisor also gave her details of debt advice 
agencies.
Evolution contacted Miss A on 3 August 2021. Miss A was asked if the CMP was 
affordable for her and she said it wasnt at the moment. She was advised that it 
wasnt possible to reduce the CMP permanently but that Evolution could agree a 
reduced monthly payment on a temporary basis (which could have a negative impact 
on her credit file), with a view to starting to address the arrears when it was 
affordable. It was agreed that the account would be put on hold for a week for Miss A 
to provide evidence that the loan wasnt affordable (in the form of bank statements 
and wage slips) as Evolution would be agreeing for her to pay less than the 
contractual amount. It would then review these and call her back to make an 
appropriate arrangement.
On 30 September 2021, Miss A called as she was struggling with her finances and 
hadnt been able to make the payment that day. She wasnt sure when she would be 
able to make this. It was explained that Miss As account was in arrears which would 
affect her credit file so it was in her best interests to try and clear this, however it had 
to be affordable. The advisor said that if Miss A couldnt afford to make a double 
payment the following month, then Evolution could look at putting an arrangement in 
place. It was agreed that Evolution would call back on 4 October 2021 to see if there 
was any affordability to make any payment. 
On 7 October 2021, Evolution emailed Miss A proposing a payment arrangement to 
bring the account up to date as it hadnt been able to get hold of her on 4 October as 
agreed. 
On 30 October 2021, Evolution called Miss A, who confirmed that she was still on 
maternity leave and receiving a reduced income and that her ex-partner hadnt been 
able to give her any money as he wasnt working. She said that she wasnt going to 
be able to make a payment until 9 November 2021 when her ex-partner would be 
able to give her some money and then she would be able to pay £50 a week. 
Following this, Miss A said that she would be able to pay more than CMP from 19 
November 2021. Evolution reminded Miss A that whilst the arrears were still on the 
account this would show on her credit file.
Miss A called on 11 November 2021 to ask about the arrears balance on the 
account. Miss A advised that her income was £600 a month on maternity pay so this 
was very straining on her and she had buried her head in the sand. Evolution said 
that Miss A had contacted it so it would try and support her and said that a reduced 
payment plan could be agreed. Miss A said that she was going to make her CMP at 
the end of the month and the advisor asked if she would have enough to cover her 
living expenses as it didnt want her to struggle. Miss A said probably not but that 
she would make do as she didnt want the arrears to increase.
Whilst I can appreciate that Miss A was struggling financially, I think Evolution has 
treated her fairly as it advised her that it would be willing to come to an arrangement 
whilst her income was lower and Miss A agreed to make the CMP up until that point 
and also once she was on a reduced income as she didnt want the arrears to 
increase. Evolution wouldnt be able to reduce the CMP as this was what had been 
agreed at the outset. However, it did agree to accept lower payments without taking 
any further action in the circumstances. The fact that the difference between any 
lower payments and the CMP would be treated as arrears isnt unreasonable and is what I would expect to see as Miss A wouldnt be maintaining the amount she had 
agreed to pay under the terms of the contract. 
Miss A returned to work on full pay from March 2022 and has made the full CMP 
payments since then with additional payments towards the arrears.
As set out above, Miss A has made no further representations in response to the provisional 
decision.
Evolution has confirmed that whilst there were some minor points it didnt agree with, overall 
it agreed with the provisional decision. It accepted that, whilst Miss A said her food spend 
was £100 (and it entered £169 in the I&E as this was the minimum), the evidence available 
to it contradicted this. Evolution also accepted that there was a regular transfer of £130 each 
month to mum and that this alone would have resulted in a negative disposable income. In 
relation to the gambling transactions, Evolution said that it asked for further bank statements 
but accepted that its questioning around this area wasnt strong enough to support the 
inclusion of the figure of £30 for this in the I&E. It said that the £10 for the phone bill she took 
out for her ex-partners mother and the £50 payment for the credit card had been included in 
the I&E under the heading of Catalogues. However, it accepted that this did not correct the 
issues identified with the food spend, transfers and gambling.
As there have been no further representations from Miss A and Evolution agrees with the 
provisional decision, I see no reason to change my provisional view. 
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I am of the view that the loan 
was unaffordable and unsustainable for Miss A and that Evolution lent irresponsibly. Whilst I 
dont think the loan should have been given, Miss A has had the benefit of the money 
borrowed, so I think it right that she should have to repay the sums borrowed. However, had 
the loans not been given then she would not have had to pay the fees or interest incurred on 
these. 
Putting things right
In light of the above, I require Evolution to do the following:
Evolution should calculate the amount borrowed without any fees, charges or interest 
(£5,500). It should then treat any payments made to it by Miss A as payments 
towards this capital amount. 
If this results in an overpayment, Evolution should pay Miss A simple annual interest 
of 8%* on any overpayments, running from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
If there is still a balance outstanding, Evolution should agree a suitable repayment 
plan with Miss A.
Evolution should remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss As credit 
files.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Evolution to take off tax from this interest. Evolution 
must give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision and above, my decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Evolution Lending Limited and require it to put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman