DRN-4379042
The complaint
X complained about the settlement value he was offered by QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) after it 
accepted his storm claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
X made a claim when his polytunnel was damaged in a storm. QIC instructed a surveyor to 
review the damage and validate the claim. Based on the surveyors comments, QIC 
accepted a storm had caused the damage, and offered a cash settlement to have the 
structure repaired.
X provided evidence from his own expert indicating the polytunnel wasnt repairable, so he 
wanted it replaced.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought the statement provided by Xs 
expert was more persuasive, so he asked QIC to remove the old polytunnel and replace it 
with a new one of similar quality.
QIC accepted our investigators view, however, there was a wide variation between the 
parties view on an appropriate settlement value. Our investigator thought the quote provided 
by X was more indicative of the cost and as QIC didnt respond in time, the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision on this on 12 September 2023. I said:
Im going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. Although QIC have since agreed Xs 
polytunnel should be replaced, its final response on the matter was different. So, as it didnt 
make a fair decision on the claim and its still not resolved, this will be recorded as an uphold 
decision.
However, as QIC have now accepted it made an unfair decision  I wont consider this point 
any further and will consider what I think the fair settlement of this claim should be. This is 
the outstanding point that remains between the parties.
X has provided an updated quote (taking account of inflation) from his local polytunnel 
supplier for £11,994, which includes all costs associated with removing the damaged 
structure and replacing it one of the same size and quality. 
When QIC first accepted to replace the tunnel, it offered a cash settlement of £837. X 
explained the quote wasnt for a polytunnel of the same quality or size but was happy to go 
with a cheaper quote should QIC be able to find one.
QIC said its surveyor had measured the polytunnel and it was smaller than X had specified. 
X disagreed  he measured the polytunnel again with his neighbour providing evidence and 
a description of how his polytunnel was set up in his garden. He thought QIC had 
deliberately provided a smaller measurement when carrying out the survey.
Our investigator found the information put forward by X to be more persuasive  he told QIC 
that he thought its measurements were incorrect and said he thought the settlement should 
be based upon Xs quote. 
QIC decided to come out and re-measure the polytunnel. X reluctantly agreed, as he was 
frustrated with what he thought were delaying tactics on his claim. Our investigator had to 
chase QIC to understand what it had concluded following its latest survey.
QIC increased its offer to £1,789. X said this wouldn't cover the cost of a new tunnel, let 
alone the labour, plant hire and materials involved in removing and disposing of the existing 
tunnel and erecting a new one. It is lower than [its] previous offer. So, I have refused it. I am 
literally lost for words. X continued I looked at the website that QIC got their quote from and 
priced-up a like-for-like replacement. The total is £3,518. Even if their offer yesterday was 
just for the tunnel (i.e., excluding labour, plant hire, disposal of existing tunnel etc.) it is still 
way short of what a replacement tunnel will cost.
Having looked at what has happened on this claim, I think QIC has not fulfilled its duty in 
managing the claim effectively for X. Its approach appears to be one where it has looked to 
minimise its exposure at every turn rather than fairly assess the claim and settle it in line with 
the policy terms.
Initially, QIC wouldnt replace the polytunnel. X had to seek a well justified account from a 
polytunnel expert. QIC subsequently changed its mind and agreed a replacement of the 
tunnel was more appropriate than a repair.
QIC then offered a very low settlement for the replacement and said its surveyor had said 
the polytunnel was smaller than X claimed for. When a second surveyor came out, QIC 
increased its offer. It didnt explain the background to this, but as the second survey was 
intended for re-measuring the polytunnel, I think its likely the measurements provided by the 
first surveyor were incorrect. So, I dont think QIC has treated X fairly.
After this second visit, QIC offered a settlement for the larger polytunnel based on a price 
from a specific website. But the offer seemingly was for just the tunnel itself. QIC didnt 
provide any further details. But X didnt think this would cover the cost of the tunnel itself and 
he said he would also have the costs of labour, plant hire and materials involved in removing 
and disposing of the existing tunnel and erecting a new one.
I dont think X could provide a replacement tunnel for the settlement QIC has been provided 
 it simply wouldnt cover all the costs involved. As it hasnt put forward an offer based upon 
a quote with clear evidence the standard of the replacement is like the original tunnel and 
the quote covers all the costs, I have no choice but to ask QIC to settle the claim based upon 
the quote X has provided (£11,994). So, I intend that QIC settle the claim at this level.
I think QIC has handled this claim poorly. This has led to frustration for X and his time has 
been inconvenienced. He has explained that hes not had the enjoyment of his polytunnel for 
two growing seasons and hes not been able to grow his own vegetables which saves him 
money. I think QIC has unnecessarily delayed the claim. X has been without full use of a 
polytunnel for over 18 months. Its an important part of how X likes to spend his time. I think 
this will have had an impact on his wellbeing. I think QIC has handled this claim poorly and 
the impact has been ongoing for a long time. So, I intend to award £750 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenient caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
X accepted my provisional decision. He also explained hed suffered a financial loss from losing two growing seasons with his tunnel. However, he said he didnt want the outcome to 
his complaint delayed any longer whilst this is considered. He wants to get a replacement 
tunnel arranged in time for the next growing season.
QIC didnt accept my provisional decision. It said, I have reviewed your comments and I 
think the quote is excessive and the costs are unreasonable, for example, £1,000 cost of 
removal of polytunnel and £1,600 removal of concrete is excessive, particularly as labour is 
also added separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate QIC think Xs quote is excessive. However, I dont think QIC has engaged with 
X fairly during this process to provide a settlement themselves that is reasonable. It also had 
the choice to replace the tunnel itself but chose to cash settle.
QIC has also had visibility of Xs quote for some time  so, I think it has already had plenty of 
opportunity to engage with X and discuss in fair way what it thinks a fair settlement should 
be. It hasnt talked with X to try and find an agreement that is acceptable to both parties to 
close this complaint. I dont think its reasonable this late in the day to pick apart Xs quote. 
This shouldve been done sooner. I have no reason to believe the quote provided by X isnt 
genuine, it was originated by a company that specialises in polytunnels. Therefore, I wont 
be changing my decision on this. I dont think it would be fair to X to delay this settlement 
payment any longer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay X:
£11,994 in settlement of the claim
£750 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman