DRN-4307531
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money she paid 
to a builder for work at her home.
What happened
Miss C says that a builder Ill refer to as G took money in advance but didnt complete any 
work. She says shes the victim of a scam. 
A trusted friend of Miss Cs who had used G before recommended G to her. Miss C said that 
initially she withdrew cash from an account with another bank for work related to windows. G 
completed this work, but Miss C didnt realise at the time that it was done very poorly. After 
this, Miss C asked G to do additional work. The overall cost of the project was £16,500 but 
Miss C told Barclays that G only completed three days work and that he was incompetent. 
Miss C made the following payments to G:
Date Amount
03/12/21 £1,000
10/12/21 £90
14/12/21 £1,250
Total £2,340
In February 2022 Miss C called Barclays to raise a scam claim. 
Barclays investigated Miss Cs claim and contacted the bank that received her funds. It 
decided that Miss C wasnt the victim of a scam and said she needed to take the matter up 
with G directly. Miss C wasnt happy with Barclays response and brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She felt 
that Miss C hadnt provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that she was the victim of a 
scam, and the evidence that is available points to Miss C having a civil dispute with G. The 
investigator also thought Barclays acted reasonably in processing the payments. 
Miss C didnt agree with the investigator and maintained that G had no intention of 
completing the work when he took her money. She said G didnt possess the tools to do the 
work, lacked the necessary knowledge, didnt turn up for work, didnt bring a second person 
in to help with the work as agreed and only completed about five hours work for a job that 
was meant to take two people six to eight weeks. Miss C also says the police are 
investigating and that branch staff agreed she was a scam victim when she first reported 
what had happened.
Miss Cs complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
in other words on what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Miss C told the investigator her loss is greater than I have recorded in the table above. 
Having reviewed Miss Cs statements Im satisfied that the only transfers she made to G 
from her Barclays account were the three I have listed. If Miss C made any cash payments 
these are not covered by the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM Code). And if Miss C made transfers from her Barclays account to a different 
account, she would need to raise this with Barclays as a separate complaint before this 
service can get involved. 
The issue here is not whether Miss C received what she expected and paid for, but whether 
she was induced to pay money for services G had no intention of providing. This is because 
the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
This Code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid 
a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they 
are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
So the CRM Code isnt a general protection for consumers and does not cover situations 
where a customer has paid a legitimate supplier for something they havent received. This 
amounts to a breach of contract which is a civil issue. The CRM Code only applies in very 
specific circumstances  where the customer has been the victim of an APP (authorised 
push payment) scam. Under the CRM Code, an APP scam is defined as:
 a transfer of fundswhere 
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii)The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent. 
To conclude that Miss C is the victim of a scam, Id need to be satisfied that G deliberately 
tricked her into paying for services he had no intention of providing at the time the payments 
were made. Im not persuaded I can say that is most likely what happened here and will 
explain why.
As the investigator has pointed out, the evidence here is limited as Miss C hasnt been able 
to provide the messages she exchanged with G or any invoices. Miss C has provided what 
she has described as a schedule of work. But this appears to be a document G has created 
to evidence the work that was completed. The document isnt on headed paper. It sets out 
the original work in respect of windows and then under the heading Works done referenced 
work in the kitchen, bathroom, hall and living room. The document also stated,
Contrary to what she tried telling me that I have done nothing and only worked a few days! 
I had ordered materials required as client had no idea what was needed. 
The document provided by Miss C also says that G went to take in deliveries and, 
After a bunch of worrying Whatsapp messages she told me to take in the deliveries then 
GO HOME
Obviously I was surprised 
As was effectively being kicked off the job. Ive listened to calls Miss C had with Barclays when she reported the scam. In one call Miss 
C said she told G to leave as he kept breaking tiles. She went on to say that he had broken 
20 pieces of tile worth £2,000. 
Based on the limited evidence I have Im satisfied that G completed some work for Miss C 
but for some reason the relationship broke down. Im aware that Miss C refutes Gs 
comments (set out above) and says she didnt tell G to leave. Miss C also said that two 
decorators who were on site could vouch for this. This service is informal and has no power 
to call witnesses, so I need to carefully consider everything that both parties have provided 
to reach my decision.  
I have seen confidential information from the bank Miss Cs funds were paid to. Information 
about third party accounts cant be shared and theres little I can comment on in this 
decision. But at the time the payments were made there were no concerns about the 
account. When an individual or company act fraudulently, we usually see scam reports from 
others, but this isnt the case here. There is also no evidence of a police investigation which 
concludes that G acted fraudulently. 
Overall, I cant fairly conclude that G acted fraudulently. In the circumstances, the CRM 
Code doesnt apply. So, Ive thought about whether Barclays should have identified the 
payments as unusual or out of character and so done more to protect Miss C. The 
transactions were for relatively small amounts that were consistent with the reason given for 
them, so I dont consider Barclays needed to do anything more. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear about what has happened, I cant fairly ask Barclays to 
reimburse Miss C. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman