DRN-4013054
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt reimbursed the money hes lost to a 
scam.
Whats happened?
Mr S says that, in November 2022, he paid a total of £1,000 (in two payments of £100 then 
£900) to an investment scam. His funds went from his Barclays account to his own 
cryptocurrency wallet, before being moved on to the scammer. 
Barclays declined to reimburse Mr S loss, so he asked this Service to consider a complaint 
against the bank. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr S complaint and, unhappy with this 
outcome, Mr S asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
It's common ground that Mr S authorised the relevant payments from his Barclays account 
under the Payment Services Regulations. So, the starting point is that Barclays had an 
obligation to follow Mr S payment instructions, and Mr S is presumed liable for his loss in the 
first instance. But thats not the end of the story. There are circumstances in which a bank 
should make additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases, decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial 
harm. I consider that Barclays should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
Ive looked at Mr S account statements in the six months preceding the scam, and I dont 
think the relevant payments were so unusual or suspicious in comparison to the normal 
account activity that they ought to have alerted Barclays that Mr S may be at risk of financial 
harm.
Mr S tended to use his account fairly infrequently, and for very low-value transactions. There 
were other transactions made of a similar value to the £100 scam payment in the months 
before it, but the £900 scam payment was the highest recent transaction on the account. Its 
not unusual for a customer to make an occasional higher-value payment, and I dont think 
its reasonable to expect this type of activity to stand out to a financial institution in absence 
of any other fraud indicators. Both payments to the scam were for relatively modest 
amounts, and neither drained the account, as is often the case with fraud. Looking at 
everything, Im not persuaded that either payment ought to have caused Barclays concern.
Barclays cant be expected to intervene with every payment a customer makes. The bank 
must strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in payments, against the risk of 
unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment requests. Overall, Im not persuaded 
that the banks fraud detections systems ought reasonably to have identified a fraud risk in 
this case. So, Im not satisfied that Barclays acted unreasonably in processing the payments 
without making further enquiries and I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require 
Barclays to reimburse Mr S financial loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman