DRN-4096023
The complaint
Mr W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Porsche 
Financial Services (PFS) increased the interest rate on his finance offer to 10.9% after this 
had previously been agreed at 6.9%.
What happened
Mr W ordered a car from a dealership and received a quote for finance. He says he was told 
he would need to take the car by end of December 2022 in order to have the 6.9% APR but 
the car wasnt delivered until January 2023 at which point, he was told the interest rate had 
increased to 10.9% APR. He says this increased the cost of the agreement by £15,000. He 
says that had he known that the 6.9% APR wasnt guaranteed he would have secured 
finance with another provider at that rate.
PFS said that no agreement was signed by Mr W and it understood he had sourced finance 
from another provider to acquire the car. It said that the quote provided by the dealership 
was valid for 30 days; was subject to changes such as vehicle or equipment prices and 
prevailing interest rates; and was an offer that was subject to acceptance by PFS. It said the 
dealership had confirmed that the 6.9% APR wasnt guaranteed to Mr W. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She 
said that the interest rate wasnt guaranteed and that PFS wasnt responsible for any delays 
in the car being delivered.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he was told to accept the proposal in 
order to lock in the interest rate. He said it wasnt reasonable that he was pushed to accept 
the finance proposal at the 6.9% APR if this rate wasnt guaranteed and that it wasnt fair 
that the quote was valid for 30 days when the cars build time was longer than this. He said 
as he was pushed to accept the proposal at 6.9% APR this rate should remain valid 
irrespective of any delays in the car being delivered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr W is upset by the experience he had when sourcing finance for his 
car. But for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be able to say that PFS had done 
something wrong or treated Mr W unfairly. 
Mr W ordered a car and was provided with a quote for finance which included the interest 
rate. Mr W says that once he accepted the proposal the interest rate should have been 
locked in. However, I have nothing to show that the dealership said this interest rate was 
guaranteed and when Mr W raised this complaint, he said he was told he would need to take 
the car by end December to receive the 6.9% APR rate. 
I understand that the car wasnt delivered until January 2023 by which time the 6.9% APR 
was no longer available, and a higher interest rate was quoted. I understand this will have 
been upsetting for Mr W and I note the potential additional cost this would have incurred. But 
looking at the proposal, this sets out that the quote is valid for 30 days, subject to change 
such as vehicle or equipment prices or prevailing interest rates and that it is subject to 
acceptance by PFS. As no agreement was signed, I cannot say that a rate had been locked 
in and as I have nothing to show that Mr W was told the interest rate was guaranteed, I do 
not find I can say PFS did anything wrong by providing the interest rate that was available at 
the time the car was delivered. I understand that Mr W didnt take out an agreement with 
PFS which further supports that no agreement had been locked in before the car had been 
delivered. 
PFS has explained that it had notified its dealerships of the campaigns it was running and 
the deadlines and this ties in with Mr Ws comments about the car needing to be delivered 
by end December. These are commercial decisions and I have nothing to suggest that Mr W 
was treated unfairly in regard to the offer he was made in January 2023.
Overall, I can understand why Mr W is upset that the interest rate increased but I cannot say 
that PFS did anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly in this case. Because of this I do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman