DRN-4419350
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money he lost when he 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr L says that on 31 May 2023 he was the victim of an impersonation scam. Mr L received 
calls and messages from his credit card provider about suspicious activity on his account 
and was told that the account he made payments from was at risk. He was advised that the 
caller would get in touch with Santanders fraud team, and hed receive a call from them. 
Mr L then received a call from a spoofed number from Santanders fraud team who 
confirmed his account had been compromised. As a result, he needed to move all his funds 
to another account as a temporary measure while a new account was created. 
Mr L made two payments totalling £2,580 (£1,280 and £1,300) from his Santander student 
account to an existing account held with an electronic money institution (EMI). The scammer 
then persuaded Mr L to transfer funds to what he was led to believe was a safe account 
with Santander. Mr L says that he transferred £4,000 from his EMI account to the account 
details provided to him. Sadly, the final account Mr L transferred his funds to was controlled 
by scammers. 
The scammer asked Mr L to transfer further funds from an ISA account. He was concerned 
about this and called Santander to discuss it. During the call Santander advised Mr L that he 
was the victim of a scam and to contact the EMI he transferred his funds to. 
Santander didnt agree to reimburse Mr Ls loss but said that its advisor should have raised a 
scam claim when Mr L reported the scam or when he subsequently called but had failed to 
do so. In recognition of this, Santander credited Mr Ls account with £75. 
Mr L was unhappy with Santanders response and brought a complaint to this service. He 
said Santander had allowed him to transfer his entire balance plus a £1,500 overdraft facility 
he had never previously used without providing an adequate warning or intervening. Mr L 
also said Santander hasnt properly considered his claim under the CRM Code it has signed 
up to. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
that the payments arent covered by the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) as they were to an account in Mr Ls own name 
and that she wouldnt have expected Santander to have intervened when they were made. 
Mr L didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so the complaint 
has been passed to me to consider. I have summarised his main points below:
- Although two firms are involved the circumstances need to be considered in the 
round as a complex and cruel scam which resulted in an overall loss of around 
£4,000. This has left him in debt when all he was trying to do was protect his money.
- Santander allowed all his funds, including his overdraft, to be transferred out of his 
account in unusual circumstances and made no effort to intervene or provide a 
sufficiently clear warning. This was a substantial amount, and he would not normally 
make a transfer in stages as he did.
- He doesnt remember being given a warning or being asked why he was withdrawing 
his entire balance and overdraft. 
- Funds left his account in a short timeframe. Had he made the transfers in branch 
questions would have been asked and the scam uncovered so hes in effect being 
penalised for using Santanders app. 
- The fact the CRM Code doesnt cover this situation leaves customers like him 
vulnerable. 
- If Santander had stopped the payment the loss from his EMI account would have 
been prevented.
Santander also provided some points for me to consider in my decision. Ive summarised 
them below:
- Mr L transferred funds to an EMI account in his own name that he had made 
previous transfers to and had full access to and control of. Mr L should pursue this 
EMI. 
- The payments Mr L made werent unusual and so didnt trigger its fraud detection 
systems. 
- Santander acted correctly and in accordance with a recent judgement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
I appreciate that Mr L has lost funds and the impact this has had on him, but I can only ask 
Santander to reimburse him if I think it did something wrong when the payment requests 
were made.
CRM Code doesnt apply in this case because it only applies to certain payments to another 
person and Mr L transferred funds to his own accounts. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Santander is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. Its not disputed that Mr L made and 
authorised these payments, although I accept that when he did so he didnt think his funds 
were at risk.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr L when he authorised payments from his account or whether it could and should 
have done more before processing them. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I dont consider Santander ought reasonably to have 
recognised he was at risk of financial harm and taken any further action. Mr L was making 
relatively low value transactions to an account in his own name that he had previously 
transferred funds to. Shortly before the scam transaction Mr L made the following transfers 
to his account with the same EMI:
24/02/23 - £1,000
24/04/23 - £750
27/05/23 - £1,000
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that the payments of £1,280 and £1,300 would have 
stood out as so unusual that Santander needed to intervene. I appreciate that the second 
transaction took Mr L close to his overdraft limit of £1,500, but this limit had been in place for 
some time and Mr L had used his overdraft briefly in January 2023 and then again in April 
2023. So, I dont think there was enough going on to conclude that Santander acted 
unreasonably in following Mr Ls payment instructions. Theres a balance to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption 
to legitimate payments. Whilst banks have obligations to act in their customers best 
interests, they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
I understand Mr Ls concerns that the CRM Code doesnt apply in this case, but this isnt 
something I can consider here. My role is to look at the individual circumstances of Mr Ls 
complaint and decide if Santander treated him fairly based on law, rules, guidance and good 
practice at the time.  
Overall, whilst Im sympathetic to the position Mr L finds himself in, I cant reasonably ask 
Santander to reimburse his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman