DRN-1789969
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tandem Bank Limited rejected his Section 75 claim when he 
complained about the quality of a car.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr C purchased a car from a garage and paid a deposit of £100 with his 
Tandem Bank credit card. The balance was paid by bank transfer.
Mr C arranged transportation of the car from the supplier. On delivery, Mr C discovered that 
there was a burn mark on the seat, only one key and an after-market modification to the 
exhaust. There was also damage to the bumper.
Mr C complained to the supplier. The supplier offered to compensate Mr C for the burn mark 
and the missing key. Mr C wasnt happy and asked to cancel the contract. The supplier said 
it would accept a return of the car but said it wanted to deduct £1000 for usage and the 
damage to the bumper, which it said had been caused during transportation to Mr C.
Mr C complained to Tandem. Tandem didnt uphold the complaint. It said the supplier had 
offered a partial refund, which it thought was fair.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator initially thought that the sale of the car was covered by the distance selling 
regulations. But she later changed her view and said that because this was a one-off 
transaction, the distance selling regulations didnt apply. The investigator considered the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 and in particular whether the car was of satisfactory quality and 
as described but concluded that on the basis of the available information, it wasnt possible 
to say that the car wasnt as described or that there had been some other breach of contract.
Mr C didnt agree. He said the advert for the car didnt mention a modified suspension or 
exhaust system, and that neither of these modifications could be seen in the photos or 
videos.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whether the distance selling regulations are applicable to this case. 
Having done so, I dont think they do on the basis that the sale was conducted as a one off 
and the supplier doesnt operate under an organised sales scheme.
The way in which this service approaches section 75 is to look at what happened and 
assess whether there are grounds for a successful claim. In considering a complaint about a 
financial services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might 
have under Section 75.Rather, in determining whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr 
Cs complaint. Ive taken Section 75 into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach 
the same outcome as, for instance, a court might reach if Mr C pursued a claim for breach of 
contract.
Ive thought about whether theres been a breach of contract. The relevant law says that a 
car must be of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and as described. If this isnt the case, then 
a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
Ive focussed on whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and in 
particular whether the car was as described. In doing so, Ive had regard to the pre-sale 
information provided to Mr C including  amongst other things  the photos and videos and 
the email exchanges with the supplier.
Mr C has said that he was aware from the photographs which appeared with the advert that 
the car had a large exhaust. But hes made the point that there was no indication of the level 
of noise that this would emit. Hes also said that the modification to the suspension wasnt 
referred to prior to the sale and that it wasnt possible to identify this from the photos. In 
relation to the burn on the upholstery and the damage to the bumper, Mr C has said the 
advert described the car as being in immaculate conditions. Hes also said that the advert 
stated that there were two keys.
I can see from the email exchanges between Mr C and the supplier that Mr C was given the 
opportunity to inspect the car via video, photos and video calls. I cant be certain of exactly 
which videos and photos were viewed by Mr C but an email from the supplier dated 13 May 
2019 shows that Mr C was happy to proceed with the purchase. Based on what Ive seen
I think Mr C was aware that the exhaust had been modified and ought reasonably to have 
expected that it would emit a different noise as a result. With regards to the suspension, and 
whilst I cant be certain of whether Mr C was aware of the modification or not, Im unable to 
say that the suspension wasnt as described, because the advert doesnt say that the car 
has standard suspension. Mr C has said that he didnt become aware of the modified 
suspension until some time after hed received the car, so Im not persuaded that there was 
a misrepresentation here, because there was no untrue statement of fact which induced Mr 
C to enter into the contract.
In relation to the burn marks and missing key, Ive taken into account that this was a second-
hand car, so Id expect a degree of wear and tear. These are cosmetic issues and wouldnt 
warranty rejection of the car. I can see that the supplier offered to compensate Mr C for the 
burn marks and missing keys, which I think was a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
aspect of his complaint.
In relation to the damage to the bumper, its disputed by the supplier that this damage was 
present at the point of sale. Ive looked at all the available information including the photos 
and it does appear that there were some scratches at the point of sale. Based on what Ive 
seen of the video made after Mr C received the car, the damage looks more extensive. On 
balance, I think its likely that most of the damage was caused during transportation. 
Because Mr C arranged the transport, Im unable to hold the business responsible for this.
Its clear that Mr C is disappointed with the car and I understand that hes since disposed of 
it. However, on the basis of the information Ive seen, Im unable to say that theres been a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation. I dont think Tandem Bank handled the Section 75 
claim unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint,Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman