DRN-4214302
The complaint
Mr H complains RCI Financial Services Limited trading as Renault Finance (RCI) supplied 
him with a car that he believes wasnt of satisfactory quality. He also wants them to 
compensate him for the cost of replacing the cars wheels. 
What happened
In August 2022, Mr H entered into a 60 month hire purchase agreement for a used car. Its 
cash price was around £8,600. It was around seven years old and it had travelled over 
53,500 miles. The monthly instalments were £149.
Shortly after acquiring the car, Mr H reported a number of issues with it. This included a 
faulty seatbelt, issues with the brakes, a wheel and other things. Repairs were carried out by 
the dealership but they said they couldnt find any fault with the brakes. 
As part of the repairs, one of the wheels were found to be corroded and it was replaced 
however Mr H complained it was a different colour to the other three. As he was unhappy 
with this, the dealership arranged for all four wheels to be re-sprayed the same colour so 
they matched. Mr H was unhappy with this colour as it isnt the original one, he complained. 
He said it would cost him at least £500 to replace all the wheels and he wanted RCI to 
compensate him for the same.
RCI accepted there were initial faults with the car including the faulty seat belt but these had 
been repaired under warranty. They confirmed no fault with the brakes were found. 
Concerning the colour of the wheels, they said the dealership had made Mr H aware in 
advance the colour might be different and because he wasnt happy with these, they 
arranged for all of them to be re-sprayed the same colour. To acknowledge the initial faults 
with the car, RCI paid £300 compensation as a gesture of goodwill towards the cost of 
replacing the wheels.
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld, he believed RCIs offer was fair. He said the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply but it had been fixed. In regards to the wheels, he 
considered that to be a wear and tear component of the car given its age and mileage 
meaning RCI wouldnt be responsible for its repair. He considered the colour of the wheels 
to be a cosmetic issue which didnt impact the use of the car.
Mr H disagreed and maintained his stance. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided RCI has done enough to put things right, I will explain why. 
Mr H acquired a car under a regulated credit agreement. RCI was the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about the supply 
and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of supply, the cars history, safety, durability, etc.
In this case, Mr H acquired a car that was over seven years old and had travelled over 
53,500 miles. As this was a used car with significant mileage and age, its reasonable to 
expect parts may already have suffered substantial wear and tear when compared to a new 
car or one that is less travelled.
Ive considered the evidence provided by both parties. Based on Mr Hs testimony and the 
job cards from the dealership, its clear there were faults with the car. This included a faulty 
seatbelt and a corroded wheel. There is insufficient evidence there was a fault with the 
brakes. I dont find a reasonable person would expect to experience such faults so soon 
after acquiring the car which would suggest they were present upon Mr H taking delivery of 
it. For these reasons, I dont find the car was of satisfactory quality at supply meaning there 
was a breach of contract.
Where this happens, I expect repairs to be carried out in a reasonable timeframe and at no 
cost to the consumer. In this case, I can see thats what happened. The dealership carried 
out repairs in August and October 2022. I understand there was some delay due to the 
shortage of car parts which was a known external issue at the time so I cant hold the 
dealership responsible for this. Given the circumstances, Im satisfied they carried out the 
repair in a reasonable time frame. 
From my understanding, when the car was in for repairs a courtesy car was offered to Mr H 
but he declined to accept it as it was a lot smaller than the seven seater car subject to this 
agreement. This meant he was without a car for a few days. I acknowledge Mr Hs 
frustrations and I note he said because of this, he couldnt go away as he intended (although 
the booking had yet to be made). The situation is unfortunate and its likely to have caused 
inconvenience but I dont find it was unreasonable the dealership wasnt able to provide a 
like for like car. I find their offer of a courtesy car was a fair one.
Based on what Mr H has told our service, the faults were rectified. However the outstanding 
issue appears to be the colour of the wheels. Because there was a fault with one of wheels 
(which meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality), it had to be replaced. I consider that to 
be a reasonable course of action given the situation. While I appreciate Mr Hs strength of 
feeling about the matter, I dont find the dealership were obliged to make sure the wheel 
colour matched the others, I consider that to be a cosmetic issue and not one that impacts 
the use or performance of the car. 
Nevertheless, I can see when Mr H complained the replaced wheel was of a different colour 
to the rest, the dealership arranged for all wheels to be re-sprayed the same colour which 
was at no cost to Mr H. I dont find the dealerships actions were wholly unreasonable. 
Although they werent required to make sure the wheels matched, it was clear they were 
trying to resolve the issue to Mr Hs satisfaction so I cant say they acted unfairly.Taking everything into account, I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply due to 
faults with the seatbelt and corroded wheel however Im satisfied these have been put right 
at no cost to Mr H. RCI have also offered £300 compensation. I note they said this was a 
gesture of goodwill but given the above, had they not offered the same, I wouldve asked 
them to consider compensation. Given whats happened, I consider the £300 compensation 
paid to be fair given the likely impact to Mr H including the trips to the dealership for repair. 
Overall, I wont be asking RCI to do anything further to resolve this complaint, I find theyve 
done enough to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman