DRN-4286488
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs S have complained about the service provided by Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited and about investment performance.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it again here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision.
I apologise for the time taken to reach this final stage of our process.
Mr T has brought the complaint, but Mrs S has agreed for him to do so. For simplicity I will 
just refer to Mr T.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T and Mrs S took out a life assurance policy in 1992. It wasnt sold on an advised 
basis. Sun Life isnt responsible for providing ongoing advice. I understand that this is 
disappointing to Mr T, but I dont find that Sun Life has done anything wrong in this 
regard. Likewise investment performance is dependent on market conditions, and 
isnt guaranteed. Sun Life advised Mr T of this in April 2023, in response to his email 
dated the same month.
I do understand Mr Ts frustration at the service received from Sun Life. Sun Life 
accepts that Mr T has experienced unacceptable delays and poor customer service. 
Sun Life apologised and offered Mr T compensation of £100. I agree that 
compensation was merited for the stress caused to him, not least because Mr T 
waited a year for a reply to his April 2022 query. But I find that £100 is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When it did respond to Mr T, Sun Life also explained that the policy was paid up  
but didnt tell Mr T what this meant. However I note that it did subsequently write to 
him providing an explanation. Mr T will now be aware that because no premiums had 
been received since March 2021  the policy was considered to be paid up. Sun Life 
will use the cash value to pay charges for running the plan  this means the value is 
likely to decrease. We cant advise Mr T how to cash in his policy  but he can 
contact Sun Life directly, advising them of his wishes.
Although Mr T feels that Sun Life should have written to Mrs S to ask for 50% of the 
premium payments, it wasnt obliged to do so. As this was a joint policy Sun Life 
needs permission from both parties to make any changes and it cant demand that 
either pays a certain percentage. I note that between March and September 2021 
letters were sent regarding premium arrears. So I dont find there was any error by 
Sun Life here. But Mr T and Mrs S have confirmed that Mrs S should be removed 
from the policy. The investigator asked Sun Life to write to Mrs S, and I understand it 
has done so, explaining how to go about this change. 
I appreciate that this wasnt the response that Mr T was hoping for, but in all the 
circumstances Im satisfied that the offer of compensation Sun Life has made is fair. 
Other concerns that Mr T has raised would need to be addressed to Sun Life before 
this Service can consider them.
My final decision
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr 
T £100 to settle this complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Sun Life should pay Mr T £100, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2024.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman