DRN-1724133
 
The complaint
Mr L has a mortgage with NRAM Limited and hes complained that hes a mortgage 
prisoner. He also says NRAM keeps moving the goalposts with his overpayments and 
monthly mortgage payments.
 What happened
Mr L took out this mortgage in 2005 with the former Northern Rock. In 2007 he increased the 
size of his mortgage and transferred onto a new interest rate which was fixed until 
October 2009. When Northern Rock collapsed, his mortgage was moved to NRAM. Whilst 
the mortgage has now been moved on again to a new lender, I wont be dealing with that 
here as our considerations are limited to the complaints dealt with by NRAM in 2019.
When his preferential interest rate expired in 2009 Mr Ls mortgage moved to the standard 
variable rate (SVR), and thats what hes been paying ever since.
Mr L says its not fair that he cant reduce his interest rate. He says hes a mortgage prisoner 
because he wouldnt pass affordability checks with other lenders (I wont go into any detail 
about that here to protect Mr Ls privacy). Hes also unhappy that his mortgage payments 
have gone up and he feels NRAM keeps moving the goalposts.
Our investigator didnt think NRAM was acting unfairly. Mr L didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr L wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Changes in monthly payments
NRAM reviews Mr Ls mortgage payments annually to ensure his mortgage is on track to be 
repaid by the agreed end date. That review date is 1 September.
On 1 September 2018 NRAM undertook the review and told Mr L he needed to pay £511.56 
a month to repay his mortgage within the remaining term (which was a little over 10 years). 
That sum is not fixed, as such, but if nothing changed (such as a rate change, for example) 
and Mr L made all his payments in full and on time then by paying that for all the remaining 
term that should repay the mortgage in full.
But here Mr L entered into an arrangement to not pay his mortgage between September and 
December 2018, so he missed four monthly payments totalling £2,046.24. This meant Mr Ls 
monthly payments could never have stayed at £511.56 as he needed to make up the 
missed £2,046.24. When a remaining mortgage term is shorter (so 10 years rather than 
25 years left to run, for example), any missed or underpayment has a disproportionately 
greater effect on the new payments going forward as there is a shorter period over which to 
make up the extra amount.
NRAM admitted it got things wrong when Mr L made a £3,000 overpayment in January 2019. 
It told him his revised monthly payment would be much lower than it would be. NRAM put 
that right by agreeing to refund the overpayment to Mr L, and thats what I would have 
ordered NRAM to do had it not already done so. 
Mr L was unhappy that his monthly payment was increased to £533.99 after the 
overpayment was refunded, rather than reverting to the £511.56 that had been due each 
month since September 2018.
But as I explained above, £511.56 was no longer the right monthly payment as Mr L had 
missed four monthly payments totalling £2,046.24. So, his monthly payment could never go 
back to £511.56 after hed made the overpayment and had it reversed because that wouldnt 
repay his mortgage within the agreed term.
When the £511.56 was set Mr Ls debt stood at around £49,400 with just over 10 years left to 
run. When the £533.99 was set Mr Ls debt had increased to around £51,900 (the missed 
payments plus extra interest) but had about eight months less to run. So, he now had a 
larger debt with less time to pay it back over; Mr Ls payments would always have needed to 
have been increased.
Having considered everything Im satisfied the only mistake NRAM made here is when it told 
Mr L his new payment (after the £3,000 overpayment) would be less than it was and for that 
its offered £50 compensation and has refunded the overpayment to Mr L. That seems a fair 
outcome and so I make no further order or award. If Mr L now wants to accept that £50 (if he 
hasnt already) then hell need to contact NRAM directly to do so.
Mortgage prisoner
I have considerable sympathy with the predicament Mr L finds himself in. The lending 
environment when he took his mortgage out was very different, as was Mr Ls income.
When NRAM took over the mortgage it was on the SVR, and that continues to be applied. 
NRAMs not an active lender and isnt trying to attract new customers through offering low 
rates. All its customers move onto - and remain on - the SVR once their previous interest 
rate products expire. To that extent, its not treating Mr L any differently from any of its other 
customers.
Although NRAM is a closed lender (in that its not taking on new business) its still regulated 
by the FCA and must follow its rules. But theres nothing in the FCAs rules that says a 
lender has to offer new interest rates to its customers once their old ones expire. The rules 
say that a lender has to treat its customers fairly taking account of their best interests; it has 
to communicate with them in a clear, fair and not misleading way; it has to notify them of 
changes to their monthly payments; and it mustnt take advantage of customers who cant 
move their mortgages elsewhere by treating them differently to other customers with similar 
characteristics.
NRAM has notified Mr L of changes to his payments from time to time. And it isnt treating 
him differently from its other customers  all customers must stay on the SVR once their 
products expire, just like Mr L. So, I dont think NRAM is in breach of any of the regulators 
rules in not offering him a new rate.I dont think NRAM is acting in breach of the terms of the mortgage agreement either. Mr Ls 
mortgage offer set out that he would pay a preferential rate and thereafter the SVR. Nothing 
in the mortgage offer or the mortgage terms say that Mr L would be entitled to another 
preferential interest rate after that one expired. Im aware, of course, that its common for 
borrowers to take a preferential rate product  and then take another rate rather than revert 
to the SVR. Sometimes thats with an existing lender; sometimes its with another lender. But 
as I say, theres nothing in Mr Ls mortgage agreement that says hes entitled to a new rate.
Ive set out that theres nothing in the regulators rules, and nothing in the mortgage contract, 
that requires NRAM to offer new interest rates. Nor is it under any other legal obligation to do 
so.
Thats not the end of the matter though  my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. I do that by considering the law, regulators rules and guidance, and 
good industry practice  but ultimately, Im not constrained by them if I think fairness requires 
me to do something else. So, the question I must answer is whether, taking into account the 
rules and the mortgage terms, its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances that NRAM 
has refused Mr L a new interest rate thats lower than the SVR.
Ive thought about this carefully. Ive considered everything Ive set out above. 
Its unfortunate that Mr L has ended up with a closed book lender that doesnt offer new 
rates. But NRAM is his lender, and legitimately so. Its doesnt offer new interest rates to any 
customers, including Mr L. Under current law and regulations, thats a position NRAM is 
entitled to take. Im mindful that if NRAM were to offer new lower rates to some customers, 
but not others, that could mean some customers were being treated less favourably than 
others with similar characteristics  which in turn could potentially cause unfairness. But that 
isnt currently the case. 
Theres nothing in Mr Ls mortgage agreement that would prevent him remortgaging 
elsewhere  hes no longer liable for an early repayment charge, for example. But the reason 
he says he cant do that is because of external changes in his circumstances  changes 
which arent part of his mortgage contract, arent within NRAMs control, and couldnt have 
been foreseen by any party when he took the mortgage out.
NRAMs not treating Mr L any differently from how it treats its other customers. Theres 
nothing in the contract, the law or the regulators rules that requires NRAM to offer new 
products. NRAM itself isnt standing in the way of Mr L moving his mortgage elsewhere. Its 
treating him the same as it treats all its other customers. And Im also mindful that while 
NRAMs SVR is significantly higher than new interest rate products offered by other lenders, 
its not dissimilar to other lenders SVRs. 
Taking the facts of this case into account, and considering the law, rules and my findings 
about NRAMs business model and the level of its SVR, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
NRAM has made arrangements for its borrowers to consult a particular firm of mortgage 
brokers to see whether they can move elsewhere to a lender that would offer new interest 
rates. If NRAM makes that referral directly then the mortgage broker will waive their usual 
advice fees. If Mr Ls circumstances change and hes interested in that then he can contact 
NRAM directly to discuss it. Alternatively, NRAM has a mortgage deal finder search facility 
on its website if advice isnt needed.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman