DRN-2364405
The complaint
Mr C complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV decided not to renew his 
hospital income plan policy.
What happened
Mr C took out a hospital income plan policy in 1987, and it was transferred to CIGNA in 
1995. The policy renewed each year.
CIGNA wrote to Mr C in November 2019 to explain that following an extensive business 
review, it wouldnt be able to provide this type of cover going forward. CIGNA has also said it 
was taking this action on all policies of this type, as it was exiting from the particular market. 
So, CIGNA gave Mr C time to find cover elsewhere before his current policy expired in 
May 2020, as it wouldnt be offering to renew it.
Mr C doesnt think CIGNA has acted fairly. He says when the policy was transferred to 
CIGNA, it confirmed that it would be continuing the policy on the same terms going forward. 
And there was no suggestion that it would be terminating the policy. Mr C thinks this was a 
misrepresentation, or mis-selling, by CIGNA.
Mr C has also said theres a legal issue here whether this is one policy with one contract 
since inception, or a series of annual contracts. Because of this, its not clear which terms 
apply here.
Mr C says hes not able to find another policy with the same terms due to his age, so he 
thinks CIGNA has discriminated against him. Mr C wants to be transferred to another policy 
with the same terms, or a refund of all his premiums plus statutory interest.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think CIGNA had done anything 
wrong. He said the policy renewed annually, at which point either Mr C or CIGNA could 
decide not to continue with the cover. He also said this was a decision made because 
CIGNA would be withdrawing from the market. So, this impacted all its customers, not just 
Mr C. The investigator didnt think CIGNA had discriminated against Mr C. 
The investigator also thought CIGNA had given Mr C reasonable amount of time to try and 
find cover elsewhere, before the policy expired. Our investigator didnt think CIGNA needed 
to find similar cover for Mr C elsewhere, as this wasnt its responsibility. He also didnt think it 
needed to refund Mr C his premiums, as CIGNA had been covering the risk over the years, 
had Mr C made a claim.
Mr C wasnt happy with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I have read and considered all the points both Mr C and CIGNA have raised. But Im 
only required to comment, and make a finding, on those that I think are material to the 
outcome of the complaint. And thats what Ive done here.
This was an annually renewable policy. The most recent policy terms were issued in 
May 2019 when the policy was renewed. These say that the policy runs for 12 months  so, 
until May 2020.
I cant see that CIGNA promised to renew the policy indefinitely. It decided to withdraw from 
the particular insurance market, and Im satisfied this was a commercial decision it was 
entitled to make. I also dont think CIGNA discriminated against Mr C, as this decision 
impacted all the policyholders of this type of product.
CIGNA wrote to Mr C about its decision six months before his policy was due to end. I think 
this was a reasonable amount of time to let Mr C know if its decision, so he had enough time 
to find cover from another provider, if he wanted to do that. CIGNA also gave some advice 
on how to find an alternative provider.
I fully accept Mr Cs concerns that hes not able to find same cover with the same price. But I 
dont think thats something I can hold CIGNA responsible for, as I dont think it has done 
anything wrong here.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied CIGNA was entitled not to renew Mr Cs cover, 
and it hasnt treated Mr C unfairly in doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman