DRN-3481397
The complaint
Miss O complains about adverse reports RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI), trading as 
Nissan Finance, have made to her credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss O, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss O acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
RCI have an obligation to report financial performance on the account accurately to the 
credit reference agencies. The terms of Miss Os agreement with them said that they would 
do that and explained that may have consequences for future credit applications.
Miss O says there shouldnt be missed payments reported to her credit file between July 
2021 and October 2021, but her statement of account shows that there were arrears on her 
account during that period and until the account was brought up to date in mid-October 
2021. So, it seems RCI have reported her financial performance accurately.
Miss O says that she was misadvised by RCI and I can see that she was making efforts to 
resolve the situation. But there were still arrears on the account, and Miss O hasnt been 
able to direct me to calls where she was told that the arrears would not be reported and nor 
have I heard on those calls that would be the case.
I dont think I have sufficient information to suggest RCI have done anything wrong here. 
They appear to have reported Miss Os financial performance correctly and Ive not been 
provided with sufficient evidence they misinformed or mis-led Miss O. Im therefore not 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman