DRN-4208858
The complaint
Mr B complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited  trading as Chase (Chase) wouldnt refund 
a payment he lost in a scam.
What happened
What Mr B says:
Mr B says he was contacted by his credit card provider (who I will call A). The caller said 
there had been a suspected fraudulent transaction on his credit card. Mr B said he didnt 
recognise the transaction, but he couldnt talk then and said he had to speak to the caller 
later. He googled the caller number and it was from As number. Later, the caller phoned Mr 
B again and said the credit card fraud with A had been stopped, but his other bank accounts 
were open to fraudsters because of a virus affecting all banks. The caller asked if Mr B had 
any other accounts and he said he had a Chase account.
The caller said he acted for all banks and said he could deal with Mr Bs Chase account. By 
this time, Mr B was agitated  as he was in his car, his mobile phone was running out of 
charge and he was tired and stressed after work. The caller was insistent that Mr B needed 
to act urgently to protect his money. He gave Mr B the details of two accounts to transfer his 
money into.
Mr B drove home. The caller contacted him again and two transfers of funds were made or 
attempted. These were:
Date Time Transaction Amount
27 September 2022 19.02 Transfer from  
Mr Bs Chase 
savings£10,000
27 September 2022 19.16 Payment £9,781
27 September 2022 19.21 Transfer from 
Mr Bs Chase 
savings£10,000
27 September 2022 19.25 Payment £9,694 (blocked 
by Chase)
Mr B then called A and his other bank (B). A said there had been some other fraudulent 
transactions on his credit card  and these were stopped. B bank confirmed there were no 
problems with that account. Once Mr B calmed down, he realised he had been scammed. 
He then called Chase, got through at 20.17 - and explained what had happened. He asked 
that the payments be stopped. He was put on hold for 30 minutes and only managed to 
speak to Chase at 20.55.  Mr B says that at that time, the two payments were showing in the 
app as pending. Eventually, Mr B managed to speak to someone at Chase, but by then one 
payment was showing in his app as having been made, and the other was shown as 
pending. 
Mr B reported the scam to the police. The whole episode was very stressful for him  and 
the time taken to get through to Chase added to this. He said there hadnt been any activity 
on his Chase accounts since its opening. He said Chase didnt do anything to protect his 
money. Chase later told him theyd received £11.25 from the scammers account with the 
recipient bank.
What Chase say:
Chase didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They said because it was bank A that contacted Mr 
B, they couldnt help. They advised customers in the app that theyd never call them and ask 
to move money to keep it safe  as this was a well-known scam technique. They had 
recovered some money  but that was far less than Mr B had paid to the scammer.
Our investigation so far:
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Chase acted reasonably. She didnt 
think the payment made by Mr B was unusual, based on his normal account activity. His 
account was opened six months before the scam, and in April 2022, he transferred into the 
account £25,000 and then moved it out again. There wasnt any other activity until the scam. 
But  she said the payment to the scammer didnt stand out as unusual. Chase told our 
investigator theyd given a generic warning to Mr B when the new payee was set up. She 
said Mr B didnt contact Chase at the time of the payment, so Chase couldnt have been 
alerted to the scam.
So  our investigator said Chase didnt need to refund any money.
Mr B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I reached a provisional decision which said:
Im sorry to hear that Mr B has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that he 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mr B didnt intend for 
the  money to go to the scammer, he is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Chase should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because Chase arent a signatory to it. 
I need to decide whether Chase acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B when 
he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
In their evidence to us, Chase confirmed they stopped the second payment of £9,694  as it 
was picked up by their system as a possible fraud. So Mr Bs complaint concerns the first 
payment of £9,781. 
The first consideration is whether the payment of £9,781 was sufficiently unusual when 
compared to his normal account activity  and if it was, should Chase have reasonably 
stopped the payment, and contacted Mr B about it.
I looked at Mr Bs account. It was only opened in April 2022  five months before. And in that 
month, he transferred into the account one amount of £25,000 (on 27 April 2022), and then 
immediately moved it out again - on the same day. But  the transfers were to and from Mr 
Bs personal savings account with Chase  so I dont consider these transfers could 
reasonably be considered as normal payments activity.  The balance then stayed at £20 and 
there was no activity until the scam on 27 September 2022. So  for the purposes of 
considering the payments activity on Mr Bs Chase account, the account was dormant and 
had no activity between when it opened and the scam. So  the payment in September 2022 
was unusual and it wouldve been reasonable for Chase to be alerted to that.
On 27 September 2022 - there was a transfer of £10,000 into the account -  from Mr Bs 
personal savings account with Chase. This was made only a few minutes before the first 
payment. 
After the credit of £10,000, the first payment of £9,781 was made  it was almost the same 
amount as the transfer in, and the payment almost drained the account of all its funds (the 
remaining balance was £239).
A similar pattern was followed for the second payment  there was a credit for £10,000, 
followed by the payment attempt of £9,694. This was successfully blocked by Chase. 
I can also see that the payee was set up as a new one by Mr B. So I think that there were 
enough red flags here to have alerted Chase to the possibility Mr B was being scammed. 
He transferred funds from his savings account to his current account that hadnt been used 
in five months, and immediately afterwards made a large transfer to a new payee. This was 
the first time Mr B had made a payment to a new payee. Given these points, Chase 
shouldve reasonably intervened to stop the payment and ask questions of Mr B.
Chase have argued that they displayed a generic warning to Mr B when he set up the new 
payee. We asked Chase more about this  and it was a generic message and didnt require 
Mr B to click on a confirmation that he was happy to go ahead. Therefore, I dont think that, 
of itself, means Chase arent responsible for what happened.Chase also argue that there are generic warnings in the move money area of their app to 
warn against scams  again, I dont think that of itself, this means that Chase arent 
responsible for Mr Bs loss of money.
From the information Chase have provided, it appears that Mr B used a pay friends and 
family option when setting up the new payee. In responding to this provisional decision, we 
invite Chase to provide more information about why the payee was being set up by Mr B, 
and the specific warnings that Mr B may have been given at the time. I would say that even if 
Mr B was provided with a safe account warning, it may not have gone far enough  as the 
warning doesnt mention spoofed telephone numbers or the specifics of the scam Mr B fell 
victim to.
Mr Bs calls to Chase:
Mr B has argued that because he couldnt get through to Chase, the payment of £9,781 was 
made. So  Ive considered this point. Chase showed us evidence that the payment was 
made and released at 19.16. And Mr B told us he first called Chase at 20.04.  Chases 
records show Mr B contacted them via the app at 19.30 as Chase had asked that he get in 
touch.
The recipient bank also confirmed that Mr Bs payment of £9,781 was received into the 
scammers account at 19.16. Therefore, by the time Mr B first contacted Chase the payment 
had been made. 
Would intervention have made a difference? 
I then considered whether intervention by Chase wouldve made a difference  if the right, 
open questions had been asked of Mr B (either on the phone or in webchat) - about the 
purposes of the payment and the circumstances about the contact made. And I think it would 
have. Theres enough evidence in what Mr B has told us which suggests the scam couldve 
been uncovered by such questioning. For example, Chase couldve told Mr B another 
bank/credit card firm could never act for Chase, or have access to Chases accounts.
I then considered if Mr B couldve prevented the scam himself  in other words, did he 
contribute to what happened and should he bear some responsibility for the loss? In this 
case, I dont think it would be reasonable to say Mr B couldve done anything differently  the 
call seemed genuine, the number they called from had been spoofed (and Mr B did check it 
himself); and it was clear that Mr B was put under extreme pressure after a long day at work.
Recovery:
We expect the paying bank to make all reasonable efforts to contact the recipient bank to try 
to recover the funds  to stop them being removed by the scammer. Chase later recovered 
£11.25  but of course that was a small amount compared to the size of the payment.
We asked the recipient bank about the contact made by Chase.
They showed us that Chase contacted the recipient bank at 11.59 the next day  28 
September 2022. I considered whether that was reasonable  as Mr B advised them of the 
scam the evening before. 
Chase told us that at the time of this scam, their fraud department worked the hours of 8am 
to 8pm. But even so  I dont consider that to wait until midday the following day was quick 
enough. I can see that some of the money (£3,980) was removed from the scammers account by 19.40 on the evening of 27 September 2022. So  Chase couldnt have 
prevented that. 
But on the other hand, £5,790.12 was removed from the scammers account at 11.37 on 28 
September 2022  so if Chase had taken quicker action than they did, it would be 
reasonable to say this withdrawal couldve been prevented. 
However because of the provisional decision I am making - I dont think that this 
consideration matters.
In summary, my provisional decision is that it wouldve been reasonable for Chase to have 
intervened in the payment, stopped it, and asked more questions of Mr B. It they had, its 
probable the scam couldve been prevented. So  Chase should refund £9,781 to Mr B. The 
funds were transferred from his Chase savings account, and therefore Chase should also 
pay interest on the amount of the refund at the savings rate from 27 September 2022 to the 
date of settlement. 
Responses to the provisional decision:
Chase agreed with the provisional decision, and so did Mr B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Chase and Mr B agreed with the provisional decision, my final decision is 
unchanged from it. And so Chase must do what it set out.(continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. J.P. Morgan Europe Limited  trading as Chase must:
Refund £9,781.
Pay interest on £9,781 at Chases savings rate from 27 September 2022 to date of 
settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman