DRN-2066713
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out PPI at the same time as they applied for a personal loan in 2002. The 
loan included an amount to pay for the PPI which gave Mr T accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed so the case was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs T had to agree to take 
it. Mr and Mrs T say they werent aware they had PPI in Mr Ts name, it was added without 
their knowledge. They started their loan application in a branch, and it was completed on the 
phone. 
There are no meeting notes, call recording or transcript available, but thats not 
unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. But Nationwide has provided the loan 
agreement that was sent to them for signing after the call. This made it clear that the PPI 
was optional. It was labelled Optional Credit Insurance and the costs were set out 
separately. Had Mr and Mrs T not wanted the cover I would not have expected them to go 
ahead and sign and return this form. 
On balance, I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs T aware that the PPI was optional, and 
they chose to take it out for Mr T.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for Mr T.
It had, however, to give them clear information about the PPI so they could decide whether 
the cover was right for Mr T. And I agree its possible they didnt have all the information they 
needed when they agreed to buy the PPI. But I dont think they wouldve made a different 
decision with better information. I say this because:
Mr T was eligible for the PPI based on his circumstances and the terms conditions of 
the policy.
There were some terms of the policy that would make it less useful for some people 
(such as those with pre-existing medical conditions or on certain kinds of 
employment contract). But Mr T wouldnt have been affected by such terms so I dont 
think better information on them would have changed their decision.
Mr T was entitled to two weeks sick pay, but the PPI would have paid out for up to 
the life of the loan for accident and sickness claims. It also gave him up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. Overall, I think Mr and Mrs T would have found the PPI useful if 
Mr T was sick or lost his job.
The costs were set out clearly on the loan agreement. It set out the price of the PPI, 
the interest that would be charged, the total cost and the monthly repayment.
And the policy gave a pro-rata refund if the loan was repaid early, so even if the early 
refund terms were not brought to Mr Ts attention, it seems unlikely that this would 
have affected his decision to take out the policy. 
Overall, I dont think Mr T has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman