DRN-3670113
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to protect him when he was 
the victim of a cryptocurrency investment scam. Mr S lost £16,529.55. He wants his money 
back.
Mr S is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Mr S throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
In early August 2021, on advice from a friend, Mr S invested in cryptocurrency through an 
investment company (A). Hed spent the previous couple of months on a group chat with 
clients from A, building up his confidence about the possible returns on his investment and 
providing reassurances that A was genuine. He also researched A from several sources 
and was satisfied it was legitimate. Mr S also already had a cryptocurrency account with a 
different firm I shall call B, having made small deposits in the past. And so, Mr S set up an 
account with A and gave his authority for it to trade on his behalf  using his existing 
account with B. 
On 19 August 2021 Mr S transferred £22,000 to his account with B from another of his bank 
accounts. It was then moved to his account with A to be invested. Between 20 August and 
6 September 2021, Mr S received four returns on his investment into his Barclays account, 
ranging from £197.18 to £4,325.95. 
On 9 September 2021 Mr S transferred £10 from his Barclays account via his account with 
B to his account with A. He was then told about a promotional offer that would significantly 
increase his rate of return. So, on 10 September 2021, Mr S transferred £30,000 from his 
Barclays account via his account with B to his account with A. Mr S received the following 
warning from Barclays:
We're continuing to increase the protection we offer you, but it's also important for you to 
protect yourself. Once a transaction's gone through, it's difficult to recover your money. We'll 
never ask you to move your money to a 'safe' account, nor will the police, HMRC or any 
trusted organisation.
Stay safe from scams
Check the FCA register and warning list to confirm that the investment company is certified 
and regulated before proceeding. Scammers often clone genuine companies, creating 
documents and websites that look real - check the spelling.
Fraudsters often provide an initial return on an investment to encourage you to provide 
larger amounts of money, so get a second opinion from a qualified advisor, if the offer 
sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
Mr S also telephoned Barclays as he had some difficulty making the payment through his pin 
sentry device (seemingly because the payment had flagged as suspicious). During the 
telephone call Mr S was asked several questions about the payment and the checks he 
should be making. Based on the responses Mr S gave, the payment went through. 
On 20 September 2021 Mr S had another return of £4,837.08 paid into his Barclays 
account. He tried to make further withdrawals around 27 September 2021 and made a 
further payment from his Barclays account of £4.99 to A via B. But when A started to be 
obstructive about making withdrawals, Mr S started to become suspicious that hed been the 
victim of a scam. 
Mr S contacted Barclays in October 2021. It tried to recover the funds on Mr Ss behalf. But 
no funds remained. 
Mr S complained to Barclays. It didnt consider it to be responsible for Mr Ss loss given he 
was transferring money from his Barclays account to an account in his own name (B). As 
the funds went from B to the scammer via A, Barclays said Mr S should contact B about 
the fraud. 
Mr S remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He 
didnt accept that Barclays had no responsibility to protect him. And said that it shouldve 
done more to understand the circumstances surrounding the £30,000 payment when hed 
spoken to Barclays. He wanted the outstanding £16,529.55 returned to him. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She had confirmation from 
Barclays that it had provided Mr S with a warning about the risk of fraud when he made the 
£30,000 payment. And even if it had done more to understand the nature of the payment, 
our Investigator thought Mr S wouldve continued with the transaction.  
Mr S didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said Barclays shouldve 
asked more probing questions about the £30,000 payment, and if it had, the information he 
provided wouldve uncovered the scam and prevented the loss. Mr S said Barclays 
shouldve been aware of the risks associated with cryptocurrency investments. And that the 
£30,000 was sufficiently unusual to have warranted further investigation. 
Mr S also said that whilst he has traded before, he is not familiar with the hallmarks of 
scams. And that if Barclays had told him that A was not FCA regulated, he wouldnt have 
proceeded with the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I want to assure Mr S that Ive thought very carefully about the further points 
hes made. But I cant say Barclays has treated him unfairly. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
I should first point out that Barclays had an obligation to protect Mr S from financial harm, 
irrespective of what happened to the money after if left his Barclays account. And so, Im 
considering Mr Ss complaint about Barclays on that basis. I accept the transactions Mr S made were authorised payments, even though he was the 
victim of a sophisticated investment scam. So, although he didnt intend the money to go to 
the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions 
of her account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.  
However, taking into account what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Barclays identified the transaction of £30,000 as suspicious.  Even though its the case that 
with cryptocurrency scams the first payment is often made to an account in the customers 
name, in almost all cases were satisfied firms wouldnt have known this  so the usual 
triggers apply in terms of out of character or unusual payments. And, if a transaction stands 
out as being remarkable, as I think the £30,000 should have, an intervention should still 
normally take place. So, I think Barclays was right to have intervened before the £30,000 
payment was processed. 
As well as the warning issued to Mr S which Ive detailed above. Mr S interacted with 
Barclays because of the telephone call he had about his pin sentry on 10 September 2021.  
Where there is interaction between a bank and its customer in relation to a payment, wed 
expect the bank to take this opportunity to find out more about the nature of the payment. 
Mr S has said Barclays asked very little about the payment during this telephone call. He 
said it was only a quick conversation in which he was asked standard questions about where 
he was transferring the money. Mr S said he doesnt recall being given any advice about the 
risk of scams, despite saying he was making an investment. 
Having listened to the call Im afraid I dont agree with Mr Ss recollections. Barclays asked 
several detailed questions specific to cryptocurrency investments; how the accounts with A 
and B had been set up; if anyone had advised him or taken over his devices; if hed had 
any returns on the investment; and what experience he had of investing. Barclays also 
spoke about the risks involved in cryptocurrency investments and how to look out for 
indications of a scam. Mr S was also asked if he wanted to go away and do more research 
before the payment was released, and was warned that if this was a scam, there was no 
guarantee he would get his money back.
Mr S confirmed he was satisfied the investment was genuine and that hed received some 
returns. He also said hed invested in cryptocurrency before and didnt need to do any further 
checks. And he confirmed hes an investor who runs an investment trading company. So, 
based on the responses Mr S gave, I dont think it was unreasonable of Barclays to allow the 
transaction to proceed. I should also add that I dont consider it was the responsibility of Barclays in this case to 
carry out checks on A, as Mr S has suggested. It advised Mr S to check the FCA register 
and asked if he wanted to do more research before the payment was released. This is in line 
with what Id expect Barclays to do here. 
So, given the warning and the checks Barclays did, I think it did enough in relation to the risk 
it identified. And given the level of detail Mr S was asked about, together with his experience 
as an investor, the fact hed been in contact with other investors prior to the investment, and 
hed received returns on the investment, I dont believe any further intervention by Barclays 
wouldve made a difference. Mr S was unfortunately completely caught up in the scam and 
had no reasons to question it at that time. 
When Mr S notified Barclays hed been the victim of a scam it contacted the receiving bank 
the same day to see if any funds remained. Unfortunately, it received a response to confirm 
that no funds remained. Im satisfied Barclays made reasonable efforts to recover the funds 
Mr S lost through the scam. So, I dont think it needed to do anything else. 
Taking everything into account, I dont disagree that Mr S has been the victim of a 
sophisticated cryptocurrency investment scam. But I think Barclays did enough to try and 
protect him  and even if more had been done, I dont think this wouldve made a difference 
and so I cant say Mr Ss loss wouldve been prevented. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman