DRN-3119662
The complaint
W complains that Zurich Insurance PLC has unfairly declined a claim for damage caused by 
subsidence under its commercial Insurance policy.  
What happened
In 2015, W made a claim to Zurich for damage to a row of garages. One of its leaseholders 
had been unable to close a garage door properly. Zurich said the row of garages was 
suffering damage caused by subsidence.
Zurich didnt agree to cover the claim. It said as the policy had only been taken out a few 
months prior to the claim, the damage had likely started before its policy was active. So 
Zurich said a claim would have to be raised with Ws previous insurer.
W ended up being referred to several previous insurers, all of which referred it to the 
previous insurer. It came to light that there had been a previous claim for subsidence 
damage to the garages around 1990. Zurich has said W should approach the insurer that 
dealt with that previous 1990 repair, as it would be its responsibility to resolve matters. 
W didnt accept this and complained to Zurich that it wasnt taking responsibility for the claim. 
Zurich didnt alter its position. Unhappy with its response, W brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator said Zurich had acted unfairly in refusing the claim. He said it was 
unreasonable for Zurich to expect an insurer to be responsible for the claim because it did 
some other subsidence repair work around 25 years ago. He felt the ABI guidance  whilst 
only applicable to domestic policies  was good industry guidance. And under the guidance, 
as Ws policy had been in force for more than eight weeks at the time the damage was 
noticed, it follows that Zurich should meet the claim.
Zurich didnt accept those findings, it said the ABI agreement shouldnt apply as W is a 
management company who own several properties. It also provided photographs of the 
garage which it said showed the damage had been ongoing for some time. It said it was 
clear from the photographs that the garages werent level, and this should have been 
obvious before Zurichs policy started. Zurich also said W had misrepresented the policy 
when it was taken out, by not declaring the previous subsidence repairs.
Our investigator noted Zurich hadnt previously relied on misrepresentation to decline the 
claim. He didnt think it had been shown there was a misrepresentation of the risk, so 
thought it was unfair for Zurich to now rely on this to decline the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurich has recently said it feels W misrepresented the risk when it took out the policy, so it 
shouldnt have to meet the claim. Zurich didnt raise this when W m a claim for subsidence in 
2015, nor when W complained to it or our service. Zurich also didnt mention it as part of 
compiling its file to enable us to investigate the complaint. It only raised this when our 
investigator upheld the complaint. Its unclear whether it now wants to treat the policy as 
avoided, it hasnt said so. It seems only to have raised the issue of misrepresentation to 
decline the claim.
Im not persuaded Zurich has acted fairly in now saying W misrepresented the risk. It hasnt 
provided this service with any evidence, such as from its underwriter, which supports its 
position that cover would not have been offered had it known of a previous claim on the 
garages. So even if I were to find W had misrepresented the risk, I wouldnt say Zurich has 
acted fairly and reasonably in relying on a misrepresentation to decline the claim. 
I also consider Zurich has already declined the claim by relying on a policy term. In this case 
its relied on the following exclusion: damage which originated prior to the inception of this 
Insured event. So I dont think its fair and reasonable for Zurich to now take a position of 
misrepresentation, when it had previously relied on its policy terms.
Ive considered Zurichs other reasons for declining the claim, which are:
Photographs show the damage was obvious before its policy was taken out, so Ws 
previous insurer should settle the claim. 
The date of loss pre-dates the inception of the policy, so there is no cover. 
The insurer who carried out the previous repair in 1990 should also respond to this 
claim.
It doesnt have to adhere to the ABI agreement on subsidence damage, as this is a 
commercial policy. 
I dont think its unreasonable that W contacted Zurich in the first instance. It had been 
insured by it for around three months when a leaseholder had trouble closing a garage floor. 
As far as Im aware, this was the first time an issue had been raised relating to the integrity 
of the garage. Zurich said it should have been clear the damage had already started before 
its policy, given the photographs its seen. And because this is the case, a previous insurer 
should handle the claim. Zurich didnt carry out any monitoring which could comment on the 
likely cause of the damage, when it started and whether it was continuing in 2015 in support 
of its position. 
Ive reviewed the photographs in question, these were taken in April 2015, three months 
after the claim was made. The photographs do show one garage door to be misaligned. But 
there are no other photographs from previous years available to provide a comparison, or for 
anyone to be able to pinpoint when the garage door became distorted. So these 
photographs, taken six months after the policy was taken out, are not enough to say W 
should have been aware of any damage prior to the policy being taken out. It also isnt 
enough evidence for me to be persuaded that the loss occurred before Zurichs policy 
started.
It seems to me W made a claim once one of its leaseholders could no longer secure the 
garage. I think its more likely that they had been able to secure it in the months prior, after 
the policy was taken out. So I think its reasonable to conclude that the damage must have 
got worse whilst Zurich was on cover. 
Whilst Zurich didnt carry out any investigations. But its expert said the damage hadnt 
occurred within the life of the policy. It thought the damage would have happened in the 
summer months before Zurich was on cover.
W has gone to a total of four insurance companies its previously held insurance with. Some 
of those did carry out reports and monitoring, which Ive been provided with. So Ive 
considered this evidence in relation to when the loss likely occurred. 
In 2017, monitoring was carried out on the property for around six months, it was determined 
that the building was still moving and the likely cause was clay shrinkage owing to 
vegetation. So Im satisfied theres enough evidence to say some of the damage has occurred whilst the policy was in force with Zurich and the property was still moving when 
the policy started. 
A report from another insurer said that whilst the damage to the garages was historic and 
had been ongoing for some time there was also no evidence that there was any movement 
during 1999-2012 [when this particular insurer was on cover]. So taking both of these reports 
into account Im satisfied that there was likely a period of stability with the garages, but some 
movement occurred after Zurich became the insurer.
There is little other evidence to go on in this case. Its not in dispute that a previous 
subsidence claim was made and the insurer at the time appears to have underpinned two 
garages worst affected by the subsidence, as well as carrying out other repairs. There is 
some evidence to suggest that insurer was recommended to demolish and rebuild all of the 
garages in 1990. Zurich says for this reason the original insurer should deal with this current 
claim. But I havent seen enough evidence that persuades me this subsidence damage is 
most likely linked to the repairs carried out in 1990. There are reports which suggest the 
garages were stable for a long period of time after this claim. And the current damage seems 
to be caused by mature vegetation around the garages  this could have matured in the 
years after the 1990 claim.
So on balance, whilst some damage may be historic, Im also satisfied that some damage 
has happened when Zurich was on cover. So I dont think it rely on its policy term to fairly 
decline the claim. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable that it should be responsible for 
repairing the damage.
Zurich has said it shouldnt be bound by the ABI agreement as this is a commercial policy. I 
accept the ABI agreement was set up to only cover domestic policies, so it doesnt apply 
here. But Im also satisfied that it is good industry practice and having considered all of the 
evidence and industry guidance, I think the fair and reasonable outcome in this case is that 
Zurich meets the claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Zurich Insurance PLC should settle Ws claim for subsidence, in line 
with the remaining policy terms.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman