DRN-2662008
The complaint
Mr N has complained about Standard Life Assurance Limited. He says that a fund switch he 
completed in February 2020 wasnt priced correctly and that he lost out as a result.
What happened
Mr N has a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Standard Life which hes held since 
2011. The SIPP holds funds within the Standard Life Investment Policy (SLIP) which he 
manages himself. Mr N makes fund switches throughout the year as and when he chooses. 
On 25 February 2020 Mr N contacted Standard Life to request a fund switch. He wanted to 
move funds into a FTSE tracker fund. The switch was processed the next working day and 
the trade completed on 28 February 2020.
On 3 March 2020 Mr N complained about the transaction. He said that an incorrect
procedure was followed for the switch which had led to his buying fewer units. Essentially, 
Mr N says that the price he bought the units at was higher than it should have been. He 
expected to secure the price that applied one day later which was a lower price and would 
have meant that he purchased more units.
Standard Life issued a final response saying the correct procedure had been followed. 
However, Mr N queried errors within the explanation that had been given. Standard Life 
responded to correct the errors but confirmed the switch had been processed correctly. They 
offered £100 compensation to acknowledge the incorrect explanation provided in their final 
response and for their delay in responding. Mr N accepted that payment.
Mr N referred the complaint to this service where it was considered by an investigator. She 
set out her view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
The investigator said, in summary:
The process of buying and selling units can differ depending on the type of funds 
involved.
This switch involved SLIP funds and so that was the process that she considered.
The process of a switch is automated, with no manual intervention.
The purchase price used was the price from 27 February 2020. This was the correct 
price in line with the terms and conditions and other materials.
The correct number of units had been purchased.
Standard Life hadnt made an error.
Mr N didnt agree. He said, in summary, that there was a two-step process. This was how 
other switches had been handled. This would mean that he should have got the purchase 
price from 28 February 2020 (and not 27 February 2020). He provided evidence of other 
switches which he said had followed this two-step process.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator and with her conclusions. I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate this outcome will disappoint Mr N, but Im not satisfied that Standard Life has got 
things wrong.
Mr N is unhappy with the buying price achieved in this switch. He makes no complaint about 
the sale price. He says that he would have been better off if the purchase price available one 
day later had been secured as the units were less expensive then. He says, in effect, that if 
the correct process had been followed, he would have secured that lower price.
I dont agree with Mr N. I dont think there was any failure in process by Standard Life. Its 
perhaps worth noting at the outset that an unusual feature of this complaint is that Mr N is 
unhappy that his transaction was processed too quickly. Most complaints this service 
receives about transactions like this involve dissatisfaction that there has been 
administrative delay which has caused loss, and not the opposite.
Ive considered the documents the investigator referred to. In the relevant terms and 
conditions, it explains how SLIP funds are valued and unit prices are calculated. At term 7.18 
it states:
Once the insurer has valued a Standard Life investment policy fund on a business day. It 
will use the value as the basis for setting the unit price the following business day
There is also a document titled Understanding unit-linked funds, this says, the unit prices 
used will normally be those published two days after the instruction, but it also confirms 
the published prices are those of the previous working day. 
So as the investigator has said, this means the published price on 28 February 2020, would 
have been the unit price at close of business on 27 February 2020. This means that the 
correct pricing for the units purchased was 27 February 2020. That is the price Mr Ns switch 
was settled at.
I do appreciate that Mr N can evidence other switches in his SIPP which were processed 
with a later buy price. But I think all that this demonstrates is that some switches can take 
longer to settle than others. Standard Lifes terms clearly provide for possible delay and 
there is no guarantee that switches will be settled in two days as this one was. This switch 
appears to have been completed in the optimum time.
I think this switch was processed as quickly as could have been expected. It was an 
automated process handled in line with the terms and conditions. I cant agree with Mr N that 
it was processed, in effect, too quickly or more quickly than it should have been. My 
experience is that in transactions like this the aim is to complete the switch as speedily as 
possible. Investors normally wish to trade at, or as close to, the unit prices that are visible to 
them when they make their trading decisions, and not risk being exposed to market 
fluctuation and volatility beyond their control during any period of delay. 
So, for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman