DRN-1943090
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Southern Rock Insurance Company dealt with a claim 
under his car insurance policy. Mr H says they are responsible for his car being scrapped.
All reference to the insurer Southern Rock include its agents.
What happened
In July 2017 Ms H was involved in a collision with another car. The police attended and 
arranged recovery of both vehicles. The third party insurer (TPI) said Mr H was responsible 
for the incident. Mr H said he wasnt at fault. So liability was disputed. 
From the outset Southern Rock asked Mr H if he wanted to claim under his policy for his 
losses, but he said he didnt want to make a claim. So Southern Rock investigated the third 
partys claim against Mr Hs policy. 
Southern Rock told Mr H as he wasnt making a claim under his policy, it wouldnt be 
responsible for the storage costs of his car. But if Mr H wanted Southern Rock to deal with 
his claim, it could arrange free storage. 
Between July 2017 and July 2019 Mr H called Southern Rock for updates. But as Southern 
Rock had no costs to pursue from the third party, it was for the third party to prove their 
claim, which Southern Rock looked to defend. Southern Rock regularly asked Mr H if he 
wanted to claim, but each time Mr H said no. 
In July 2019 Mr H complained to Southern Rock. He said he wasnt at fault for the incident 
and so he wanted it to claim his costs from the TPI. However, Mr H didnt want to pay his 
excess. Southern Rock asked Mr H about his car. He said he never collected it from storage 
and so believes it was scrapped. 
Mr H said the police told him Southern Rock had arranged for his car to be scrapped. He 
made a complaint to Southern Rock. 
Southern Rock said it had no involvement in the scrapping of Mr Hs car as he didnt make a 
claim under the policy. So it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Our investigator said there was no evidence to show that Southern Rock had scrapped Mr 
Hs car. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said he would send an email to show the police told him Southern 
Rock scrapped his car. But we havent received anything further from Mr H. 
As Mr H disagrees, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From Southern Rocks notes, its clear that Mr H didnt want to claim under his policy. When 
liability is disputed and there are losses on both sides to be claimed for, each insurer will 
look to recover their costs from the other insurer. These cases tend to take much longer to 
settle.
However, in this case Mr H repeatedly said he didnt want to make a claim. Mr H wanted the 
TPI to cover his costs, but as they didnt agree they were at fault, the only way for Mr H to 
claim for his losses was to make a claim under his policy. This meant he would need to pay 
the excess as the first part due under a claim.
As Mr H didnt decide to claim under his policy until July 2019, I cant say that Southern Rock 
did anything wrong. In July 2019 Southern Rock wrote to Mr H to say it will deal with his 
claim as a total loss settlement. It asked him to provide verification documents for purchase, 
ownership and disposal of the car. I think this was a reasonable request in order to validate 
his claim. 
Im aware that usually  if a car isnt collected after a certain period of time following 
recovery by the police and the charges arent paid  the vehicle will be disposed of. As the 
investigator explained, Mr H will need to make further enquiries with the police to establish 
what happened to his car. 
We asked Mr H to provide any evidence he has to support his view that Southern Rock were 
responsible for his car being scrapped. But he hasnt provided anything. And so I cant safely 
conclude that his insurer was involved in the disposal of his car. 
I understand Mr H will be disappointed. But based on what Ive seen, I dont think Southern 
Rock acted unreasonably. So Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman