DRN-2780907
The complaint
Mr E complains about the delay he says Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) caused to his 
pension transfer. He says it should have used the industry accepted electronic transfer 
system (ORIGO) and also should have contacted him by phone about problems around the 
transfer instead of writing to him. He says hes suffered a financial loss of around £700.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr E contacted Zurich to enquire about the process involved in transferring 
his pension plans to a self invested personal pension (SIPP) held with another provider. A 
transfer pack was sent to him the same day which was completed by Mr E and received by 
Zurich on 28 January 2020. Zurich said it then needed to check that Mr Es new provider 
was able to accept the funds  but the provider said it couldnt because it was awaiting 
further information from Mr E. Zurich also confirmed its usual timescale for completing such 
a transfer was 10 working days. 
Zurich then wrote to Mr E on 31 January 2020 to explain that his new provider couldnt 
accept the funds while it was waiting for the further information. It told Mr E that he needed 
to ask his SIPP provider to restart the transfer when it was ready. The new provider sent an 
electronic transfer request to Zurich on 7 February and funds to the value of £105,132.11 
were sent to the provider on 14 February 2020. 
But when Mr E had called Zurich for an update on the transfer, he noted that it should have 
completed 10 days after his transfer request had been received  especially as hed 
confirmed his new provider used the ORIGO system. So he complained about what he 
thought were delays caused by Zurich in completing the transfer.
Zurich didnt accept that it had caused any delays, but it did think it should have been better 
in communicating that the transfer couldnt proceed without the other providers confirmation. 
It said it would try to improve its service going forward as a result. 
Mr E accepted his complaint had been upheld (in part) and said hed compared the values of 
the plan on both 7 and 14 February 2020 and thought hed been disadvantaged by around 
£700. He asked Zurich how it proposed to pay him the compensation.
Zurich said it wouldnt be paying any compensation because it didnt think it had caused any 
delays and had calculated the value of the plans when it received the claim forms (the next 
working day price was used). So, as it transferred the funds within its normal timescales  
and had explained that there would be a period during the transfer when Mr Gs funds would 
be out of the market, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr E wasnt happy with Zurichs actions as he believed it had changed its mind about 
upholding his complaint by not paying the compensation he said was due to him. So he 
brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the matter. 
She didnt think the complaint should be upheld as she thought Zurich hadnt delayed the 
transfer or guaranteed that it would take 10 working days. She explained that the delay was 
caused by the receiving provider not being able to accept the funds  which she didnt think 
was Zurichs responsibility. She agreed that Zurich could have called Mr E to explain the 
situation but thought it was acceptable to have written to him  especially as he had initiated 
the process by post. But in any case, she hadnt seen any evidence to suggest Zurich had 
agreed to communicate with Mr E purely by telephone. 
Mr E didnt agree and pointed out that Zurich had already upheld his complaint, which he 
thought was an admission of liability and meant Zurich should reimburse him for any loss 
hed suffered as a result of any delays.
 
The investigator accepted that Zurich upheld Mr Es complaint  but not that it was 
responsible for any losses. She thought Zurichs final response simply accepted that it could 
have telephoned him on 31 January 2020 instead of writing, and this was the part of his 
complaint which it had upheld.  She said that while she accepted that Zurich could have 
called Mr E there was no obligation for it to do so and so it hadnt, in her view, been 
negligent or acted unfairly.
Mr E said he had made it clear that the transfer needed to complete as quickly as possible 
because of market movements at the time. But as Zurich remained unwilling to compensate 
him  and as the investigator agreed with this position, he asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I have some sympathy for Mr Es position here, but I dont think Zurich has 
done anything wrong. Im sure this is an outcome that will disappoint Mr E, so Ill explain my 
reasons.
  
Did Zurich explain its processes satisfactorily? 
Ive listened carefully to the telephone conversation Mr E had with Zurich on 
20 January 2020 when he called to confirm the process for transferring his benefits to 
another provider. Hed been made aware that, approaching his 75th birthday, he needed to 
crystallise his plan and hed identified that a transfer to his SIPP with another provider was in 
his best interest.
Zurich explained its process as, if youre looking at transferring themyou will either need 
to complete a transfer claim form, or, if the receiving scheme is able to use the origo 
system (explains system) they can be transferred via origo. The adviser clearly explained 
that if the receiving scheme can use the ORIGO system this was a preferred option, but 
otherwise paper based transfer forms would be used. 
 
Mr E enquired about the timescales for completion and was informed it would be 
approximately 7 working days from receipt of an ORIGO request or 10 working days from 
receipt of a paper request.
Mr E also said it would make sense to leave the transfer until the last minute (12 March 
deadline) because of the Boris bounce and it was explained to him that the unit price would 
be calculated on the date the forms were received. 
So I think Zurich explained its process clearly and made Mr E aware of the two options he 
had to complete the transfer along with the approximate timescales involved. Were there any delays when Zurich received the electronic request to transfer?
Ive seen a copy of the ORIGO summary sheet for this particular transfer, which shows the 
transfer was created on 7 February with a scheduled completion date of 17 February 2020. 
And the letter that Mr E received to confirm the payment was sent to the new provider on 
14 February 2020 showed that the transfer was completed before the scheduled date and 
within the 7 to 10 working day timescale that Zurich set out as its standard  which doesnt 
seem unreasonable to me. So I think Zurich carried out the transfer within the timescale it 
said it would and I dont think it can be held responsible for any perceived delays there.
But what I also need to consider is the period before the transfer was created and whether 
Zurich caused any delays there or whether it should have done more to make Mr E aware of 
any problems with processing the transfer.
The period from receipt of Mr Es transfer request to the date the ORIGO transfer was 
created
I can see that Zurich received Mr Es transfer request on 28 January 2020.  Mr Es cover 
letter for the request said that as far as he could confirm the new provider did use the 
ORIGO system. Three days later, having identified that the new provider had some 
outstanding requirements and could not accept the transfer, Zurich wrote to Mr E to make 
him aware that the transfer couldnt be processed at that time and that he would need to 
contact the other provider to restart the process.  
 
Zurich has said that previous experience told it that not all transfers are ready for completion 
when it receives a request, so it reserves the right to check with the new provider. That 
doesnt sound like an unreasonable course of action to me and could be said to help avoid 
delays. In this case the request did identify that Mr E hadnt completed all the requirements 
of the new provider  so the transfer wasnt able to progress and was cancelled. 
I dont think it would be fair to put that blame on Zurich  it wasnt able to progress the 
transfer without a legitimate transfer request from the new provider  so I dont think it 
caused any delays in the transfer not progressing at that time. 
And I note that Zurichs retirement pack set out what it would do when we receive all our 
requirements. It said it would process the transfer when we receive the fully completed 
transfer claim form and any requirements. We will then send the following to the new 
provider:
The transfer payment
The plan information needed to complete the transfer. 
But the requirements hadnt been met so Zurich was unable to send the completed forms to 
the new provider.
Mr E says the transfer should have completed within 10 days of the transfer request being 
received by Zurich  so 10 days after 28 January 2020. He says it should have used the 
ORIGO system to enable the transfer to progress quicker. But Zurich couldnt be expected to 
complete the transfer within 10 working days of the first request as that wasnt accepted by 
the new provider. 
The 10 days, or 7 in this case as it was an electronic transfer, ought to be judged from when 
the request was created by the new provider on 7 February 2020, so I dont think Zurich did 
cause a delay.With regards to using the electronic system Zurich made it clear it would use the system if a 
transfer was requested in that format by the new provider. And in this case, when its 
requirements had been met, the new provider did use the ORIGO system, so I dont agree 
that Zurich caused any delay by not responding to an electronic request.
 
The problem caused by Zurichs letter instead of telephoning Mr E
Mr E says that when the problems manifest themselves at the end of January 2020 Zurich 
ought to have called him to expedite the matter instead of writing to him. And I can 
understand why Mr E might have been frustrated about the extra time it would have taken to 
convey the information by post. But I cant see any evidence to show that Zurich had an 
arrangement whereby it would only communicate with Mr E by telephone. And I note that 
Mr E originally wrote to Zurich so I can understand why it wrote back to him.
That doesnt mean that it wouldnt have been beneficial for Zurich to have contacted Mr E by 
telephone  which it has acknowledged and apologised for. However, that doesnt mean that 
I think Zurich acted unreasonably or did anything wrong  simply that a telephone call might 
have been better customer service in the circumstances. 
However, if a different interpretation of the effect of the letter could be made, I think the letter 
itself had little effect on what happened. I say that because Mr E had already been in 
conversation with his SIPP provider  he confirmed that in his letter to Zurich when he said 
the new provider had told him that it used the ORIGO system. So Mr E would have been 
aware of the SIPP providers requirements and presumably had been in dialogue with it over 
the outstanding items. So I dont think Zurichs letter would have delayed matters as Mr E 
would have been aware of what he needed to do to progress things and even if Im wrong 
about that, then the transfer couldnt have progressed until hed been made aware of the 
outstanding requirements from the SIPP provider.
And the new provider sent an ORIGO request to Zurich when it was ready to accept the 
transfer, which it could have sent earlier if the information had been provided  which 
presumably it wasnt. So I dont think it would have made any difference to the progression 
of the transfer whether Zurich had informed Mr E by letter or telephone, as it was only when 
hed satisfied the outstanding requirements of the new provider that it could have sent an 
ORIGO request. And as Ive already said Mr E ought to have been aware of these 
outstanding requirements from his SIPP provider.
So, while I think Zurich could have telephoned Mr E on 31 January 2020, I dont think it did 
anything wrong by not doing so as I havent seen any evidence to suggest it had agreed to 
communicate with him in that format. But in any case, I think the question of what was 
outstanding to allow the SIPP provider to accept that transfer would already have been an 
ongoing matter  which Zurich couldnt have affected regardless of how it communicated the 
information.
The need to complete the transfer quickly
Mr E said he told Zurich of the need to complete the transfer as quickly as possible because 
of fluctuations in the market at that time. But, during his telephone conversation Mr E said 
that it would make sense to leave the transfer until the last minute  he needed to take some 
action on his plan before his 75th birthday on 12 March 2020- because of the Boris bounce 
and other positive market factors at the time. 
It was also explained to him that the unit price would be calculated on the date the forms 
were received. So I cant agree that Mr E made Zurich aware of any particular expediency 
except for the deadline of his 75th birthday  which both parties were already aware of.My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman