DRN-2927247
The complaint
Mr A complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to block and subsequently 
close his account without a reason. 
What happened
Mr A attempted to make an international transfer from his Nat West account to his family 
member in another country. Mr A said he had made similar transactions previously without 
any issues. 
A couple of days after the initial transfer was attempted, Mr A phoned Nat West to check the 
status of it. Mr A was told the transfer request hadnt been received and to submit a new 
one.
Mr A went back to the branch to make a new request. Mr A says while in branch, he 
overhead a conversation between two Nat West colleagues that suggested an error had 
been made with the first transfer request. Mr A submitted a new transfer request.
The next day, Mr A received a telephone call from Nat West asking him for details about the 
transfer. Mr A said the call was similar to an interrogation and Nat West asked for details 
about the intended use of the money transfer. Mr A explained that his family member relied 
on him financially for medical treatment and the transfer was to fund that. Mr A offered to 
provide some documentation including medical bills.
Mr A contacted the Nat West payments team directly and they werent aware of any issues  
Mr A said the payments team hadnt received a transfer request. Mr A sent a request to the 
payments team directly.
Following this, Mr A received an email from a staff member at a Nat West branch. They 
explained that the payments team had queried something relating to the transfer which Mr A 
was able to confirm. Nat West agreed to waive the transfer fee as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr A was then informed that the transfer couldnt be completed because Mr As account had 
been blocked. Mr A wasnt happy that he hadnt been given a reason for the block  or any 
prior notice. Mr A says he was left without access to his money for around 14 days.
Nat West then made a commercial decision to close Mr As accounts  they gave him 60 
days notice, but no further explanation. Unhappy with this, Mr A brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt think Nat West had done anything wrong. She said they were entitled 
to block the account and payment while carrying out a review and they didnt need to give 
Mr A notice of this, or a reason for it. And our investigator was satisfied Nat West had closed 
the account in line with their terms and conditions.
Mr A didnt agree. In summary, he said he thinks somebody at Nat West made a mistake 
with the first transfer request and then tried to cover up their error by asking Mr A additional 
questions and subsequently blocking his account. Mr A says there is no legitimate reason for 
the action Nat West took and he is concerned that they have made a discriminatory decision 
due to his name and background. 
The investigator responded and explained that why she couldnt share the specific reasons 
with Mr A, she was satisfied that Nat West hadnt treated him unfairly or made any decisions 
based on Mr As name or background.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr As complaint. I know this will come as a great 
disappointment to Mr A, but Ive explained my reasons further below. 
I recognise Mr A says hed made similar transfers before and hadnt experienced any 
problems. But that in itself doesnt mean Nat West did anything wrong when reviewing his 
account around the same time as this transfer request.
Nat West are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. I recognise the inconvenience 
caused to Mr A by not being able to access his own money while his account was blocked  
and the distress of not being able to transfer money to his family member who needed it for 
medical treatment. But I cant fairly uphold his complaint on this point. Ultimately, Nat West 
are allowed to inhibit accounts while they review things  as long as they have a legitimate 
reason for doing so and dont cause any unnecessary delays. Nat West hasnt shared any 
information about why they took the action they did with Mr A  and theyre not obliged to. 
But Id like to reassure Mr A that based on the evidence Ive seen and the circumstances of 
this complaint, Im satisfied Nat West were fair in their actions.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr A decided to stop banking with Nat West, he wouldnt have to explain why. Nat West 
can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of 
the account. Nat West have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr As account 
 and Im pleased to see they gave him the required notice. 
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. Nat West exercised 
their right to no longer offer Mr A banking facilities. I appreciate Mr A thinks Nat Wests 
decision to block and subsequently close his account is linked o this name and background. 
But I havent seen anything to suggest thats been the case  and more broadly, nothing to 
satisfy me that theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything 
differently.
Ive thought carefully about Mr As comments relating to Nat West making an initial error and 
trying to cover things up by taking the action they did. Im really sorry I cant go into more 
detail with Mr A about the reasons behind Nat Wests actions. The information theyve 
shared with our service is commercially sensitive and therefore it would be inappropriate for 
me to go into further detail. But Id like to reassure Mr A that Ive considered all of the 
information, evidence and arguments provided by him and Nat West and there is nothing to 
suggest that Mr A has been treated unfairly or Nat West have taken any unnecessary action.Overall, while I recognise how strongly Mr A feels about whats happened, I can only uphold 
his complaint if I think Nat West have acted unfairly. And based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
dont think they have. So, Im not going to ask Nat West to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman