DRN-3661994
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave her the wrong amount 
of cash during a withdrawal, leaving her short of funds.
What happened
On 12 March 2021, Mrs C visited a branch to make a cash withdrawal of £5,000 from her 
bank account. She explained the cashier banded up five bundles and placed them in a 
sealed envelope. Mrs C didnt count the cash in the branch nor at home as she carried out 
similar withdrawals in the past and has never experienced any problems.
Mrs C explained that she took the taxi straight home and put her money away in a safe. She 
then gave £3,000 to her builder for works carried out on her property. However, she didnt 
count the cash before she paid him, and he didnt check it either.
The builder contacted Mrs Cs stepdaughter letting her know the money Mrs C gave him was 
£340 short. Mrs C says the builder told her one bundle had £900 and two bundles had £880. 
She then counted the remaining two bundles in her possession and found they were also 
short. She had one bundle which had £820 and the other had £860. This totalled £4,340 
meaning she was £660 short.
Unhappy with this, Mrs C raised a complaint. NatWest said they couldnt agree Mrs C was 
given the wrong amount when she made the withdrawal. They explained the machine used 
to complete the withdrawal balanced and there was no surplus money found.
Our investigator was satisfied that Mrs C was given the correct amount as there was no 
major cash errors on the day of the transaction. Mrs C disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mrs C had raised another complaint with NatWest regarding the service she 
received in the branch on 11 August 2021. I wont be commenting about it in my decision 
here as this matter was resolved separately. Its also not relevant to the complaint Mrs C has 
asked us to look into about being given the incorrect amount of cash.  
There is an inconsistency in the amount Mrs C says she was short by. The breakdown of the 
missing money she gave to NatWest when she first complained amounted to £660 short. 
This figure is different to that Mrs C told our service of £700 short. The breakdown she gave 
us was that one bundle had £900, three bundles had £860 and the last bundle had £820.
Either way, having looked at the case, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for 
broadly the same reasons. I know Mrs C will be disappointed, but Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the journal for the machine that counted and dispensed the cash. This shows 
there were no problems with the machine during the withdrawal and the transaction was 
correctly completed.
The cash balance listing shows that when the machine was checked on the morning of 12 
August 2021, before Mrs Cs withdrawal, there was a cash difference of £1. The machine 
was checked again the next morning on 13 August 2021, the day after Mrs Cs withdrawal, 
and the cash balance listing shows there was a cash difference of £2.95.
Although there was a cash difference on both days, they were for very small amounts which 
dont account for the large shortfall in the amount Mrs C says she was given. I think its 
unlikely that the cash differences of £1 and £2.95 wouldve affected Mrs Cs withdrawal.
If Mrs C wasnt given the correct amount of cash, then I wouldve expected this to have been 
discovered when the machine was checked on 13 August 2021. But as explained above, the 
cash balance listing didnt show there was a difference of more than £2.95. 
Based on the available evidence, I havent seen anything to suggest there was a problem 
with the machine and I think its more likely than not that Mrs C was given the correct 
amount of cash. 
It follows the only plausible explanation here is that funds went missing after Mrs C left the 
branch. I appreciate what Mrs C has told us about how careful she is and takes steps to 
keep her cash safe. But I cant fairly hold NatWest responsible for anything that goes wrong 
with money after she left the branch.
NatWest had made an offer to Mrs C of £100 to resolve the complaint. If Mrs C now wants to 
accept it, I leave it with her to contact them directly to check if this offer is still available to 
her. 
All things considered, theres sufficient evidence to show that NatWest didnt make a mistake 
here. So, I wont be asking them to reimburse Mrs C.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman