DRN-2877677
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complains Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made for 
storm damage to his roof, under his property owners policy. 
For ease, Ive referred to Mr J throughout, as hes been the representative for both 
parties on the complaint.
What happened
Following bad weather in late 2020, Mr J noticed damage to a flat roof, that had caused 
water to get into his property. He said a tile had become dislodged in a storm and had 
pierced a section of flat roof. 
He made a claim to Ageas. When doing so, he made clear that certain parts of the property, 
such as some cladding and a higher flat roof, had been subject to some wear and tear, so he 
didnt want to claim for any damage to those. So his claim was only for a lower section of a 
flat roof. But having reviewed the damage, Ageas declined the claim. Whilst it noted there 
had been a storm, it didnt think a tile could have caused the damage being claimed for, it 
thought it was more likely caused by wear and tear. In relation to the internal damage, Ageas 
thought this damage had happened over a period of time, and not as a result of a one-off 
event covered by Mr Js policy. 
Mr J complained to Ageas, he said the report included some factually incorrect information 
about his property. Ageas accepted it had initially reviewed the wrong report when 
considering the claim. It apologised for the confusion it had caused but having reviewed the 
claim again it was satisfied the damage shouldnt be covered under the policy.
Unhappy with its response, Mr J brought the complaint to our service. He said hed had three 
reports carried out from roofing experts which confirmed the damage was storm related. He 
also said Ageas loss adjuster had only taken pictures with a camera on a pole, when he 
could have viewed the roof better from inside the property. 
Our investigator reviewed the reports from Mr J and Ageas, but she was more persuaded by 
Ageas report that the damage caused was unlikely to have been as a result of the storm. 
She was also satisfied it was more likely water getting into the property for a prolonged 
period of time had caused the internal damage.
Mr A didnt accept that, he said his reports hadnt commented on the internal damage as 
they were all from roofing experts. 
As Mr J didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js policy does cover loss or damage caused by a storm, so on the face of it; damage 
caused by a storm is potentially covered.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three questions:
has it been shown, on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer to all these questions is yes then the claim will succeed. But, if the answer to 
any of the above questions is no  the claim wont succeed under this section of the policy.
In this case, there is no dispute that a storm happened. But I still need to consider the two 
following questions.
Mr J says a tile fell from the roof and pierced the flat roof, which caused the water to get into 
the property. Strong winds can dislodge roof tiles, so like our investigator, I also think the 
nature of the damage is consistent with storm damage.
But having reviewed all of the reports, photographs and videos, I dont think the storm 
conditions were the main cause of the damage. So I find the answer to the third question is 
no and so the claim doesnt need to be paid. Ive explained why below.
Mr J has provided photos, videos and his own reports on the damage. I havent seen any 
photos of the immediate aftermath of the storm showing the roof tile on the flat roof. As I 
understand it, due to the water leaking into the property Mr J carried out a temporary repair 
promptly. So as far as Im aware all of the reports and evidence are from after the patched 
repair took place.
I accept its possible a roof tile did pierce the flat roof. But one of Mr As reports says the 
existing felt material is showing excessive deterioration in numerous areas of the roof. The 
recommendation here is that the whole roof would need to be replaced, not just the section 
damaged by the tile. I think this supports Ageas argument that the storm wasnt the main 
cause of the damage; the roof was in a poor state and the storm only highlighted an existing 
issue with the roof. 
Ageas report shows the temporary repair carried out by Mr J, but also says theres evidence 
of other previous repairs to the roof where the roof meets the property. Ageas says this 
shows the main cause of the damage was wear and tear. 
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied Ageas acted reasonably in relying on its report to 
decline the claim. I understand Mr Js unhappy that the roof was photographed from the 
ground and not from inside the property. But having reviewed his own visual evidence, I still 
dont think Ageas has reached an unreasonable conclusion. I accept Mr Js video doesnt 
show obvious wear and tear damage to the roof. But looking at his own reports, they all 
seem to recommend a full new roof is fitted, which doesnt support the roof being in good 
condition prior to the storm.
Ageas caused some unnecessary confusion by initially reviewing the wrong report to decline 
the claim, but I think it corrected its mistake promptly when this was pointed out. And as a 
patch repair had already taken place it didnt delay Mr J from carrying out any works, so I 
dont think it needs to pay any compensation for its error. Its clear that there is some internal damage to Mr Js property. Ageas has declined to cover 
this as it says there is evidence of prolonged water damage, so the damage hasnt been 
caused by the storm. It doesnt set out exactly why the photographs show prolonged water 
damage, but from looking at the report, it seems the paint on the affected area is cracking 
and peeling away. And some of the plaster has become uneven. I dont think its 
unreasonable to say this is unlikely to have been caused by water getting into the property 
once following a one-off storm event. So I think its more likely this damage has occurred 
over a period of time [and could be linked to previous patch repairs on the roof] and 
therefore isnt covered by Mr Js policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman