DRN-1922298
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain that Coventry Building Society (Coventry) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs P and Mr P bought a MPPI policy which started in July 1998 to protect their mortgage 
repayments. The policy covered both Mrs P and Mr P against unemployment. The policy 
was amended in February 1999 to only cover Mr P and again was amended in July 1999. 
The policy and mortgage ended in or before October 2006. 
Mrs P and Mr P believe Coventry mis-sold the policy. They say they had no idea what PPI 
was or whether it was necessary. They say they were given a quote with PPI included but 
were not given a choice to turn it down.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mrs P and Mr P dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs P and Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint for the following reasons:
Coventry has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used 
at the time of sale. There is very little information available and so I cant be sure how 
the policy was presented. Ive not been able to see any of the original sales 
documentation. But Coventry has been able to provide some sample documentation 
that it says would have been used in the meeting at the time of sale. One of these 
documents is a sample separate MPPI application form. This shows that Mrs P and 
Mr P would most likely have needed to sign separately to obtain the MPPI policy. It 
was presented as optional on this form also.
Ive looked at what Mrs P and Mr P have said about how the policy was sold  that 
they were not told the policy was optional. But their recollections are not detailed 
about the meeting. This is understandable considering the many years that have 
passed. And when I consider this, along with the sample documentation and what I 
know of how Coventry sold these policies at that time, I cannot fairly conclude on this 
occasion that the policy was added without their consent. So, I dont uphold their 
complaint on this point. 
Moving on, I cannot be sure if Coventry recommended the policy to Mrs P and Mr P 
or not. But I dont need to make a finding on this because I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for Mrs P and Mr P anyway.
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. The 
benefits provided by the policy would have been paid in addition to any provisions 
Mrs P and Mr P would have held at that time. Although they say they had savings, I 
think, on balance, Mrs P and Mr P had a need for this cover at the time of sale for 
any extended period of unemployment that they may have had. I also couldnt find 
any other reason such as a significant or limiting term that would make the policy 
unsuitable for them either.
Coventry has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Mrs P and Mr P took out, but I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to 
them in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed 
clearly, I dont think they would have done anything different and decided against 
having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being 
suitable. The cover seemed to be reasonably priced and also affordable.
Its possible Coventry didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely they wouldve been affected by any of these.
This has been a difficult complaint for me to make a decision and I know this will be 
disappointing to Mrs P and Mr P, but I dont think they were mis-sold the MPPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman