DRN-3359888
The complaint
Mr N complained that Aviva Insurance Limited didnt pay him enough for the market value of 
his car under his motor policy.
What happened
Mr Ns car was stolen so he made a claim to Aviva. Aviva initially said the market value of 
his car was £66,360.
Mr N has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited has underpaid him the market value of 
his car under is motor policy. Mr N did think that was enough and after further reference to 
Avivas engineer following further information from Mr N, Aviva increased the market value to 
£79,860. They also offered £75 compensation given they had to review it.
Mr N remained unhappy with the market valuation and brought his complaint to us. The 
investigator didnt think Aviva needed to do more.
Mr N disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
As the investigator said its not the role of this service to value motor vehicles. Our role is 
merely to ensure the insurer, Aviva here came to a reasonable valuation bearing in mind the 
trade guide valuations and the terms and condition of the policy. 
Avivas policy says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of the car at
the time of loss (less any excess that may apply). It defines the term market value as the 
cost of replacing your car with another of the same make, model, specification, and condition 
at the time of the accident or loss. This is important because the valuation of any vehicle is 
made at the time of the loss, not at later time. 
This service is of the view that its more fair to policyholders, if insurers base their valuations 
if at all possible on the national trade guides, as they provide actual evidence of selling 
prices, rather than advertised asking prices which are often subject to negotiation. Further 
Mr N should note that valuing motor vehicles is not an exact science, as the market changes 
frequently. Therefore, from my perspective I am merely assessing if Aviva undertook a 
reasonable investigation into the market value of Mr Ns car bearing in the valuations in the 
trade guides and any other information. And again, Avivas duty is to pay Mr N the market 
value at the date of the loss, not at the date of the resolution of this complaint. 
As Mr N is aware the investigator checked the trade guides for Mr Ns car and three of them 
being the main three guides available, gave the following valuations £64,990, £66,320 and 
£63,812. Initially Aviva offered Mr N £64,472 which Mr N didnt think was enough. On further 
review Aviva then increased this to £66,360. 
Mr N then raised a complaint as he was of the view Aviva were valuing his car as the 
standard model rather that one with his additions. Mr N also provided evidence of these 
additions. On that basis Aviva then raised the valuation to £79,860. Mr N remained unhappy 
and produced further examples of similar cars for sale. The investigator considered these 
examples and noted some significant differences between Mr Ns car and these cars, 
namely lower mileage and more desirable engines. He found that the one with the same 
engine as Mr Ns and the closest in mileage was for sale for £64,990. He was of the view 
that this was persuasive clearly showed that Avivas final valuation was consequently 
generous. And I agree with him.
I appreciate and understand that Mr N believes his car is worth more than this, but without 
coherent evidence before me to show this, there is nothing to show me that Aviva were 
wrong in its final valuation of £79,860. There is certainly no evidence before me that Aviva 
should pay Mr N £100,000 as he alleges. 
So whilst valuing cars is not an exact science, and considering Mr N had these additions on 
his car, taking into account the trade guide valuations, the examples Mr N brought to the 
investigators attention plus his analysis of these examples, I dont consider Aviva has 
undervalued Mr Ns car. Rather, I consider its final valuation to be generous on the evidence 
before me.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman