DRN-3160692
The complaint
Ms K complains that UK Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill Car Insurance) treated her 
unfairly when it settled a claim on her motor insurance.
What happened
Ms K had a car insurance policy with Churchill. In March 2021, she was involved in a road 
accident with another driver. Both drivers blamed the other for the accident: Ms K said the 
other driver tried to overtake her as she turned right; the other driver said Ms K had been 
parked and pulled out in front of him. 
Churchill reviewed the accident. It decided Ms K was likely to have been at fault so accepted 
liability and settled the claim from the other drivers insurer. Ms Ks car was written off in the 
accident, so Churchill gave her £4,205 for it (less her £300 policy excess). It also accepted 
that it could have provided Ms K a better service and paid her £150 to apologise for this.
Ms K is unhappy Churchill held her liable for the accident when she doesnt think she was to 
blame. She says its decision has affected her no claims bonus and insurance premiums, as 
well as severely distressed her. She also thought Churchills settlement offer for her car was 
too low. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ms Ks complaint about liability should succeed. He 
explained that Ms Ks insurance policy included a term allowing Churchill to take over, 
defend or settle a claim as they see fit and he thought its decision to accept liability was 
reasonable. He was also satisfied that its offer of £150 to apologise for poor service was fair. 
However, he thought Churchills valuation of Ms Ks car was too low. He recommended that 
it increase its settlement offer.
Churchill accepted our investigators recommendations. Ms K didnt, so the case was passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main issues here: liability for the accident and Churchills valuation of Ms Ks 
car. Ive considered each below. 
Liability
As our investigator explained, under the terms and conditions of Ms Ks policy, Churchill can 
take over, negotiate, or settle a claim as it sees fit (General Conditions, paragraph 3b). This 
is common in car insurance policies and Churchill doesnt need Ms K to agree this. This also 
means Churchill can make a decision Ms K doesnt agree with. If it does, I can decide if that 
decision was fair and reasonable.
Theres a clear dispute about who was to blame for the accident. So Ive looked at why 
Churchill accepted liability. In summary: 
The only witness didnt see the accident, only what happened afterwards.
Churchill believed Ms K probably pulled out in front of the other driver.
Churchill said it was Ms Ks responsibility to make sure there was no-one behind her 
before she pulled out.
Churchill had no evidence the other driver was speeding.
This meant Churchill felt it was unable to defend the claim from the other drivers 
insurer.
I sympathise with Ms K. I know she vehemently disagrees with the points above. But, in the 
absence of any contradictory evidence  for example, dashcam footage or an independent 
witness  I understand why Churchill reached its conclusions. I think those conclusions are 
supported by the photos of the accident scene, and the damage to both cars. 
Im satisfied that Churchill considered all the available evidence when it investigated the 
accident. And, having reviewed this evidence myself, I cant say that Churchills decision to 
accept liability was unreasonable. This also means the claim should be recorded as a fault 
claim against Ms K. 
Valuation
Section B of Ms Ks policy explains how Churchill will settle a claim if her car is damaged. 
This says it will pay the market value of the car, less her policy excess. Market value is 
defined as: The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and of 
a  similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
Churchill told us that it consulted two trade guides and the average value for Ms Ks car was 
£4,823. However, its engineer believed the valuations quoted in trade guides were 
excessive in comparison to the market so it also used two private adverts to value Ms Ks 
car, reducing its offer to £4,205. Ms Ks policy excess was £300, so it offered her £3,905 to 
settle her claim.
Our investigator explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont look to value 
the car ourselves but instead we consider whether the insurers offer is reasonable. To do 
this, we first look at trade guides, which are particularly useful for valuing second-hand 
vehicles because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. 
The guides also consider other factors, such as the cars condition. 
And while we sometimes consider adverts, generally the final sales price will be lower than 
the advertised price. Thats why we first look to the trade guides, as these provide stronger 
evidence of retail selling prices.
In this case, I dont think Churchills decision to reduce the valuation based on the two ads 
was fair. I agree with our investigator that it should settle the claim based on the average 
valuation suggested by the trade guides.
Finally, Churchill accepted some of Ms Ks concerns about its service. Specifically, it 
accepted that it could have done more to avoid Ms K having to provide the same information 
several times. It offered her £150 to apologise for this. In the circumstances, I think this is 
fair.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require UK Insurance Limited (trading as 
Churchill Car Insurance) to increase its settlement for Ms Ks car to £4,823, less Ms Ks 
policy excess. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman