DRN-3910171
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money, has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In July 2017, Mr M purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr M financed the purchase using several credit cards, including one provided by 
Clydesdale.
In July 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ms behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Clydesdale and the other lenders. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr M to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would pay for itself within five years, because the feed-in tariff (FIT) 
payments and energy bill savings would exceed the purchase price  in other words 
it would be self-funding in that time. 
Clydesdale didnt respond so the CMC referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened and they didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. 
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
Mr M relied on the verbal representations made by the sales representative.
The estimated returns table was included in a welcome pack provided to him after 
the sale had taken place. 
Salesperson controls what the customer sees, and the table of estimated benefits 
was not explained to Mr M.
Mr M was told the solar panel system would be self-funding by year five. 
Salesperson likely to have been working on commission and had an incentive to 
encourage the customer to purchase the system.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr M partly paid for the system with his credit card, Clydesdale agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Clydesdale, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he 
could have claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when 
deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Clydesdale. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Clydesdale. 
These include quote and contract.
The quote was provided to Mr M, although he says this was after hed agreed to the 
purchase, it asks him to contact the supplier if he wishes to proceed with an order. So, I think 
it is likely this was provided to him before he agreed to the purchase. 
The contract confirmed the purchase price of the system and was signed by Mr M. I think 
that is likely to have happened after hed been provided with the quote. 
The quote
As mentioned above, Im satisfied that the quote wouldve been provided to Mr M before he 
agreed to the purchase. This is because at the end of the attached letter it invites Mr M to 
contact the supplier if he wishes to proceed with an order. 
The CMC says Mr M was shown a presentation during the meeting but suggests that was a 
generic document that was not specific to Mr M. It seems to me that it is more likely it was 
the quote that he was shown. 
The quote shows the purchase price of the system, which was £6,500.00, and has a table 
showing the estimated annual benefits of the system. In year one the total benefit is 
£624.02. The cumulative benefit does not exceed the purchase price until year 9. The table 
includes information showing that the system efficiency will degrade over time (the estimated 
electricity generation decreasing each year). 
I think it is unlikely that the supplier wouldve represented the system as paying for itself 
within five years while providing a quote that indicates that would not be the case. 
The contractI think that the contract wouldve been signed after the supplier provided Mr M with and 
talked through the quote. It was only when he signed the contract that he agreed to the 
purchase  albeit he had a cooling off period in which he couldve changed his mind. 
Ive thought about the further comments made by the CMC, but these do not lead me to 
think the complaint should be upheld. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr 
M to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman