DRN-1888934
Complaint
Mrs A has complained about a hire-purchase agreement that she entered into with Vehicle 
Credit Limited (Vehicle Credit). She says the payments were unaffordable and so Vehicle 
Credit shouldnt have lent to her. She also says that she contacted the dealer to reject the 
car within a few hours of taking receipt as she thought that the brakes were faulty.
Background
Vehicle Credit received an application for finance from Mrs A through an online broker in 
early June 2016. After a week or so Mrs A purchased a car from a dealer for £7,150.00.   
Mrs A paid a deposit of £150 and the remaining £7,000.00 was funded through a hire-
purchase loan from Vehicle Credit. The loan had an annual percentage rate (APR) of 
45.59%, which included a product fee of £499 and an option to purchase fee of £25, and 
was due to be repaid in 155 weekly instalments of £74.99 followed by a final instalment of 
£100.55. This meant that the total charge for the credit was £4,724.00.
Mrs A contacted Vehicle Credit, by email, the day after the sale, to say that she wished to 
return the vehicle. She said  I am not happy with the brakes on this vehicle there a grating 
noise when I attempt to brake which suggest that new brake shoes are necessary. She said 
that she wished to reject the vehicle and asked to be contacted to arrange its return.     
As I understand it what followed remains a matter of dispute between the parties. Vehicle 
Credit says that it made reasonable attempts to have the car inspected. Mrs A says its 
attempts didnt go far enough. But, in any event, it isnt in dispute that Mrs A didnt make any 
payments to the agreement. So in September 2016 Vehicle Credit repossessed the vehicle, 
for non-payment, and sold it at auction for £4,419.00. The balance on Mrs As account was 
then reduced to £7,305.00 to account for the sale. 
Due to receiving no payments from Mrs A after repossessing the car, Vehicle Credit sold the 
balance to a third-party debt purchaser in June 2017. As I understand it the third-party debt 
purchaser commenced action to recover the remaining balance in 2019. Since then, Mrs A 
has complained to Vehicle Credit that she shouldnt have been provided with the car in the 
first place as she was never in a position to be able to afford the payments. 
Vehicle Credit didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that the 
finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. Mrs A was dissatisfied at Vehicle 
Credits response and referred the complaint to our service.
My provisional decision of 18 March 2020
On 18 March 2020, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mrs As 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings.
I started out by setting out the regulatory framework and other relevant publications that I 
thought were important to my determination of Mrs As complaint.The regulatory and legal framework
Vehicle Credit lent to Mrs A while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles for Business set out the overarching 
requirements which all authorised firms are required to comply with.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle 
here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) sets out the rules which apply to providers of 
consumer credit like Vehicle Credit. Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between 
the Office Fair Tradings (OFT) Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out 
in CONC. As is evident from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules specifically note 
and refer back to sections of the OFTs ILG on many occasions.
CONC 4 sets out a firms obligations around pre-contract disclosure and adequate 
explanations.
CONC 4.2.5R(1) says:
Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must: 
(a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the matters referred to in (2) in 
order to place the customer in a position to assess whether the agreement is adapted to the 
customer's needs and financial situation.
CONC 4.2.5R(2) includes:
(a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under the 
agreement unsuitable for particular types of use; 
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can be 
determined, in total under the agreement;  
(c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have a 
significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely to foresee. 
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. These rules were 
updated in November 2018, but I refer below to the rules as they were at the time Vehicle 
Credit lent to Mrs A in February 2018.
CONC 5.2.1R(2) sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. It says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to 
adversely impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of 
which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement, 
to make repayments within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments.
CONC 5.2.3G says:
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case, should be dependent upon and proportionate to factors 
which may include one or more of the following: 
1.the type of credit; 
 
2.the amount of the credit; 
 
3.the cost of the credit; 
 
4.the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit; 
 
5.the customer's credit history, including any indications that the customer is 
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties; 
 
6.the customer's existing financial commitments including any repayments due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated mortgage 
contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water 
and other major outgoings known to the firm; 
 
7.any future financial commitments of the customer; 
 
8.any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have a 
significant financial adverse impact on the customer; 
 
9.the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the 
customer has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this to 
be so because the customer displays indications of some form of mental capacity 
limitation (see CONC 2.10).
 
[Note: paragraph 4.10 of ILG]
CONC 5.2.4G(2) says: A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular 
circumstances dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and 
the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to 
the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers 
financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) says: In making the creditworthiness 
assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into 
account more than assessing the customers ability to repay the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says: The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes on to say:
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
a. without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
b. over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement, 
within a reasonable period; and
c. out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; 
and unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
CONC 1.3.1G provides guidance on what may indicate that a consumer is in financial 
difficulties. It says:
In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation to a rule), the following matters, among 
others, of which a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be aware, may indicate that a 
customer is in financial difficulties: 
1.consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store 
card; 
 
2.adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute; 
 
3.outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
 
4.inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer 
having to borrow further to repay existing debts, or the customer only being able to 
meet repayments of debts by the disposal of assets or security; 
 
5.consecutively failing to meet repayments when due; 
 
6.agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution; 
 
7.evidence of discussions with a firm (including a not-for-profit debt advice body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to seeking 
debt counselling.
 In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 
5.3.1G(4) states: (a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of 
the customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by 
the customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that: A firm must not accept an application for credit under a 
regulated credit agreement where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the 
customer has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to information 
supplied by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC also provides guidance to lenders about how to deal with consumers in arrears, this 
time making reference to the OFT's Debt Collection Guidance (DCG).
CONC 7.3.2G says: When dealing with customers in default or in arrears difficulties 
a firm should pay due regard to its obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to 
treat its customers fairly.
[Note: paragraphs 7.12 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 7.3.4R says that: A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration.
[Note: paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 2.5 sets out rules and guidance for the conduct of business for credit broking. Again 
there is an alignment between the Office of Fair Trading's Credit Brokers and Intermediaries 
Guidance (CBG), as well as the ILG and the rules set out in CONC 2.5, as again the 
Financial Conduct Authority rules refer back to sections of the OFTs guidance.
CONC 2.5.3R says:  A firm must: 
1.where it has responsibility for doing so, explain the key features of a regulated credit 
agreement to enable the customer to make an informed choice as required by CONC 
4.2.5 R;
 
[Note: paragraphs 4.27 to 4.30 of CBG and 2.2 of ILG]
2.take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that a product it wishes to recommend to a 
customer is not unsuitable for the customer's needs and circumstances;
 
[Note: paragraph 4.22 of CBG]
3.advise a customer to read, and allow the customer sufficient opportunity to consider, 
the terms and conditions of a credit agreement or consumer hire agreement before 
entering into it;
 
[Note: paragraph 3.9l of CBG]
CONC 2.5.8R says a firm must not:
(10) effect an introduction to a lender or an owner or to another credit broker, where the 
firm has considered whether the customer might meet the relevant lending or hiring criteria 
and it is or should be apparent to the firm that the customer does not meet those criteria;
[Note: paragraph 3.9aa and 4.41i of CBG]

(17) unfairly encourage a customer to increase, consolidate or refinance (which expression 
has the same meaning as in CONC 6.7.17 R) an existing debt to the extent 
that repayments under an agreement would be unsustainable for the customer;
[Note: paragraph 4.26h of CBG]
(18) encourage a customer to take out additional credit or to extend the term of an 
existing credit agreement where to do so is, or is reasonably likely be, to the detriment of 
a customer;
[Note: paragraph 4.41h of CBG]
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) is an act established for the protection of consumers 
and the control of traders of the provision of credit. S56 of the Act provides as follows:
56 Antecedent negotiations 
(1)  In this Act antecedent negotiations means any negotiations with the debtor or hirer
(a)  conducted by the creditor or owner in relation to the making of any regulated 
agreement, or
(b)  conducted by a credit-broker in relation to goods sold or proposed to be sold by 
the credit-broker to the creditor before forming the subject-matter of a debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement within section 12(a), or
(c)  conducted by the supplier in relation to a transaction financed or proposed to be 
financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement within section 
12(b) or (c),and negotiator  means the person by whom negotiations are so 
conducted with the debtor or hirer.
(2)  Negotiations with the debtor in a case falling within subsection (1)(b) or (c) shall be 
deemed to be conducted by the negotiator in the capacity of agent of the creditor as well as 
in his actual capacity.
(3)  An agreement is void if, and to the extent that, it purports in relation to an actual or 
prospective regulated agreement
(a) to provide that a person acting as, or on behalf of, a negotiator is to be treated as 
the agent of the debtor or hirer, or
(b) to relieve a person from liability for acts or omissions of any person acting as, or on 
behalf of, a negotiator.
 
(4)  For the purposes of this Act, antecedent negotiations shall be taken to begin when the 
negotiator and the debtor or hirer first enter into communication (including communication by advertisement), and to include any representations made by the negotiator to the debtor or 
hirer and any other dealings between them.
So one of the purposes of Section 56 CCA is to deem credit-brokers and suppliers to be the 
agent of the creditor when conducting antecedent negotiations with a debtor in relation to 
goods and services purchased with finance under debtor-creditor-supplier agreements.
Section 99 CCA sets out a consumers right to terminate a hire purchase or conditional sale 
agreement by giving notice. It states:
99 Right to terminate hire-purchase etc. agreements.
1.At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire-purchase 
or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall be entitled to 
terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or authorised to 
receive the sums payable under the agreement.
 
2.Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability under 
the agreement which has accrued before the termination
 
Section 100 of the CCA sets out the consumers liability on termination:
100 Liability of debtor on termination of hire-purchase etc. agreement.
1.Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement is 
terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the agreement provides 
for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any payment, to pay to the creditor the 
amount (if any) by which one-half of the total price exceeds the aggregate of the 
sums paid and the sums due in respect of the total price immediately before the 
termination
 
I then explained that taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and law, and 
considering the main reason for Mrs As complaint, I thought there were two overarching 
questions that I needed to consider in order to provisionally decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These questions were:
Did Vehicle Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs A would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
 
oIf so, was a fair lending decision made?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mrs A wouldve been able to do 
so?
 
Did Vehicle Credit act towards Mrs A unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
 
I explained that if I determined that Vehicle Credit did not act fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs A and that she has lost out as a result, I would go on to consider what was 
fair compensation.
I proceeded to consider the first of the overarching questions.
 
Did Vehicle Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs A 
would be able to repay in a sustainable way?I started by explaining that the regulations in place when Vehicle Credit lent to Mrs A 
required it to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether Mrs A could afford to make her 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
Any affordability checks had to be borrower-focused  so Vehicle Credit had to think about 
whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mrs A. In other words, it wasnt enough for Vehicle Credit to think only about the likelihood 
that it would get its money back without considering the impact of repayment on Mrs A 
herself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different credit applications.
I explained that in light of this, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
repayments to an agreement from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period).
 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
should be for an application for credit  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps between loans. Ive thought about all the relevant factors in this case.
I set out that Vehicle Credit said that it carried out a full affordability assessment before 
providing Mrs A with her credit. It said that information was obtained from credit reference 
agencies, which showed Mrs A had been on the voters register since February 2016 and 
had a loan that she was paying well. An extensive review of Mrs As income and 
expenditure, using Mrs As last three bank statements, also took place. 
As Mrs A was on maternity leave, she was also required to provide evidence to confirm she 
was returning to work after her leave ended. I also explained Vehicle Credit had provided 
copies of the information it obtained and the records of the contact it had with Mrs A during 
the application. I was also satisfied that Vehicle Credit did obtain the information that it says 
it did.
All of this led me to find that, bearing in mind it obtained a significant amount of information 
on Mrs As circumstances, Vehicle Credit did carry out a proportionate check  at least in 
terms of the information requested  before entering into this agreement with Mrs A.
Did Vehicle Credit make a fair lending decision?I then went on to explain that it isnt enough for a lender to simply request information from a 
consumer before deciding to lend to them. So even where a lender may have requested a 
proportionate amount of information - like Vehicle Credit did here - it may still be the case 
that it will not have acted fairly and reasonably towards a borrower if it didnt carry out a fair 
and reasonable evaluation of the information it obtained. 
I explained that this was because a lender is required to carry out an assessment of the 
borrowers ability to repay any credit advanced. And any assessment requires an evaluation, 
judgement, appraisal and scrutiny of any information obtained. Vehicle Credit said its 
assessment of the information obtained led it to conclude that Mrs As agreement was 
affordable for her as shed be able to sustainably make her repayments. 
So I went on to consider what Vehicle Credit had said and when doing so I also scrutinised 
the supporting information it provided. As a result of doing so, I had a number of 
observations.
Our investigator asked Vehicle Credit what it thought about the information on the credit 
searches it carried out, in particular the defaults, showed about Mrs As credit history at the 
time. Vehicle Credit declined to answer and instead reiterated what it did when it 
investigated Mrs As complaint. It was unclear to me whether this was because Vehicle 
Credit had misunderstood the investigators question, or whether it ignored it. But, in any 
event, Id reviewed the information and set out that Id drawn my own conclusions on it.   
I thought that the documentation provided showed that Mrs A had defaulted on, at least, 13 
(thirteen) different credit accounts. These included five hire purchase agreements, two home 
collected-credit loans, two credit cards, two unsecured loans, one payday loan and perhaps 
most concerning of all, a utility account. A fourteenth account was also shown as being 
delinquent with 16 (sixteen) missed payments.
There were five accounts in the section entitled current good credit. This included three 
current accounts which looked like they didnt have an overdraft attached to them, a home 
collected credit account with an outstanding balance of £130 and an unsecured loan with a 
balance of £3,846. Vehicle Credit relied on one of the loans as having been paid well and I 
proceeded on the assumption that this was the loan it was referring to when making this 
argument. 
But I could see that the starting balance of the loan relied upon was £3,975. So it seemed to 
me that Mrs A hadnt made many payments to this loan. And I wasnt persuaded that these 
payments were indicative of this loan having been paid well especially when considering the 
myriad of other contradictory information on the bank statements (which I confirmed Id 
return to further on) and the defaulted accounts shown on the search. I had significant 
concerns that Vehicle Credit chose to focus on this single account and I questioned the 
wisdom of this from a creditworthiness point of view, let alone a borrower focused 
affordability one.
Nonetheless I also reviewed what was recorded on the Footprints document Vehicle Credit 
had provided, which appeared to be a record of the contact Vehicle Credits employees had 
with Mrs A. I could see an entry recorded by an underwriter on 7 June 2016 which said: 
 vr 02/16 to date, has loan paid ok  other short term loan has been rolled over. Some 
recent paydays, loan delinq 05/16. recent tend not good- review with 3 months s/ments 
So it was clear to me that Vehicle Credit didnt rely on the credit search information alone 
and it said that its checks were underpinned by the three months worth of bank statements it received from Mrs A. But I also had some concerns about how this information was 
interpreted.
There was an entry, on the footprints document, from a Customer Sales Executive (CSE) 
at 13:17 on 14 June 2016, which said:
Called customer to ask about incoming payments on banks stats  still able to approve 
without these payments to max lend  brilliantly ran B/S. Never overdrawn and good static 
balance. All DDs and bills paid, happy to accept pending I&E once customer on site.     
This was then followed by an entry from a Senior Underwriter just over an hour later at 14:54 
on 14 June 2016, which said:
Couple of returned DDs on bank stat, bit of gambling. Have asked for workings out on 
income and to ensurte we have all commitments on I&E when completed. Overall conduct of 
bank stats is acceptable.
I was surprised at the fact that there was such a stark difference in the way that Vehicle 
Credits representatives interpreted the bank statements.
I set out that there was a further entry from the CSE at 16:13 on 15 June 2016. This said:
I&E complete  customer pays partner £80 per month for her share of the rent which 
includes gas and water. £60 electric, £55 landline/BB/tv package. £18 (mobile phone 
provider)*, £83.78 car insurance. Pays £108.69 to (guarantor loan provider)* which has 2 
years left but is hoping to pay this off within the next few months. One payment to (home 
collected credit provider)* for £30 which was for a friend. Saves well with Credit Union as 
evident on B/S. Spends around £60 per month on lottery/gambling but is not excessive by 
any means. Good conduct on B/S and all bills paid. 1 returned DD in the last few months 
and never O/D. Happy to approve application based on U/W approval. Customer also on 
maternity leave but returns to work on 4th July earning £808 after deductions..   
*name of provider removed
There was also an income and expenditure document, which was also dated 15 June 2016, 
which appeared to indicate that Mrs A had a monthly disposable income of £1,579.12. And I 
could see that this figure was then adjusted to take account of the fact that Mrs As monthly 
salary was less than what was worked out (due to her employer confirming what her salary 
would be on her return to work) and her expenditure some £400 a month more. Leaving      
Mrs A with a monthly disposable income of £908.19.   
I was concerned about the plausibility of the disposable income arrived at notwithstanding 
the adjustments made. In my view, the monthly disposable figure arrived at was wholly 
inconsistent with the information on Mrs As credit file. I struggled to see how someone who 
had in excess of £900 a month in disposable income could have had such difficulties 
repaying previous credit. 
I was also concerned that the CSE appeared to have simply accepted, at face value, that 
Mrs A was going to settle her guarantor loan  when there was absolutely nothing to support 
her being in a position to do so bearing in mind her lower income and difficulties repaying 
previous loans. The CSE also appears to have accepted that Mrs A was making payment to 
someone elses home credit account even though Mrs A had one of her own. So, in my view, 
there were number of things that simply didnt add up.   I also had concerns with the information on the bank statements that were reviewed. There 
appeared to be large transfers to and from a second account that didnt appear to have been 
investigated. There were also payments to a rent-to-own provider which didnt appear to 
have been included on Mrs As expenditure too. And rather than being savings, I think that 
the payments going to a credit union were loan repayments as a large influx of funds went 
into Mrs As account from the credit union concerned in May 2016. 
Finally, I returned to the payments to Mrs As guarantor loans. While Vehicle Credit said this 
loan was being paid well, it was clear that Mrs A was making part payments to this loan. I 
could only see only one payment having been made in full in the period covered in the bank 
statement. This didnt happen on any of the other occasions. I accepted that this shortfall in 
payments didnt show up on the credit search  possibly because the guarantor may have 
been making up the shortfall  but these broken payments clearly showed up on the copies 
of the bank statements that Vehicle Credit had. 
I also managed to get hold of copies of the statements for Mrs As other account. And having 
looked at them, I was satisfied that Mrs As financial position was even worse than it looked. 
She was missing payments to a number of existing creditors  hence the defaults on her 
credit file  including the guarantor loan that Vehicle Credit was relying on to demonstrate 
that her financial position had improved.
Bearing in mind all of this, I was satisfied that any reasonable scrutiny of the information 
Vehicle Credit obtained would have shown that it was more likely than not Mrs A wouldnt be 
able to sustainably repay this loan. As this was the case, I was also inclined to find that while 
Vehicle Credit had taken proportionate steps in requesting information from Mrs A, it 
nonetheless made an unfair lending decision. So I was left intending to find that Vehicle 
Credit didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mrs A when it entered into this hire purchase 
agreement with her. 
Did Vehicle Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Even though Id already set out why I was intending to find that Vehicle Credit had not 
treated Mrs A fairly and reasonably when making its decision to lend, I still had a couple of 
other concerns about its dealings with Mrs A.
Firstly, Id seen an email that was sent to the car dealer the day after the purchase. And it 
was clear that Mrs A had concerns about the brakes on the car she was sold. I was a little 
concerned that this matter didnt look to have been adequately resolved. But as Id already 
found that Vehicle Credit had unfairly entered into this agreement with Mrs A in the first 
place, I didnt think that any finding that I may have made in relation to the car Mrs A was 
sold not being of satisfactory quality, would have materially affected Mrs As position. As 
such, I thought that while Vehicle Credit and/or its agent dealer ought to have responded to 
Mrs As concerns about the car, I made no finding on whether or not the car was of 
satisfactory quality.   
I also thought about the circumstances behind Vehicle Credit taking possession of the car 
and the outstanding balance it sold on to the third-party debt purchaser. My concern here 
was that Mrs As statement of account showed that £4,200.00 of interest and £524 of fees 
were added to Mrs As loan balance when the account was opened. Meaning that Mrs A had 
an opening account balance of £11,874.00. 
Her deposit of £150 reduced this to £11,724.00 and as Mrs A didnt make any of her 
scheduled repayments this remained her outstanding balance when the car was 
repossessed in September 2016. Vehicle Credit obtained a purchase price of £4,419.00 when the car was sold and it simply deducted this amount from the outstanding balance of 
£11,724.00 and sold on a balance of £7,305.00 to the third party debt purchaser. 
I couldnt see how or why it was fair and reasonable for Vehicle Credit to sell on a balance 
including three years worth of interest and fees on £7,150.00 when in reality it had only 
been without a significant proportion of this amount (£4,419.00) for just over three months. 
In these circumstances, I found that Vehicle Credit acted unfairly and unreasonably towards 
Mrs A when it failed to acknowledge that Mrs A had only been with the car for a very short 
period of time and was still being expected to pay more than the initial purchase price. I 
invited Vehicle Credits thoughts on this matter in its response to this provisional decision.    
Overall and having thought about the two overarching questions, set out earlier in my 
provisional decision, I was left intending to issue a final decision which found that:
Vehicle Credit did request reasonable and proportionate information about Mrs A to 
decide whether shed be able to sustainably make the payments to her loan. 
However, its failure to properly analyse and scrutinise this information resulted in it 
unfairly lending to her; 
 
Vehicle Credit did act unfairly and unreasonably to Mrs A in some other way. This 
was because it sold on an outstanding balance to a third-party debt purchaser, which 
was unfairly and unreasonably high as it didn't reflect that the car was repossessed 
and Mrs A had only had it for a very short period of time.
 
These findings left me minded to reach the overall conclusion that Vehicle Credit unfairly and 
unreasonably entered into this agreement with Mrs A.
Did Mrs A lose out as a result of Vehicle Credits shortcomings?
I then proceeded to consider whether Mrs A suffered adverse consequences as a result of 
Vehicle Credit unfairly entering into this hire purchase agreement with her. And I thought that 
Mrs A had because she had been left in the position where she was being expected to pay 
£7,305.00 to the third-party debt purchaser. I was particularly concerned that Mrs A had 
been left with an outstanding balance which was larger than the purchase price of the car, 
this was despite the vehicle being repossessed and her having had at best (bearing in mind 
Mrs As concerns regarding the quality of the car), three months use of the vehicle.
So overall and having thought about everything provided and what was fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this case, I was minded to find that Mrs A lost out because 
Vehicle Credit unfairly entered into a hire purchase agreement, which it ought to have 
realised were unsustainable and harmful for her, with her. And this meant I thought that 
Vehicle Credit needed to put things right.
I finally set out a method of putting things right for Mrs A, which I found addressed Vehicle 
Credits failings and Mrs As resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs A responded to my provisional decision confirming that she accepted my reasons for 
upholding her complaint. But she also thought that any negative information should be 
removed from her credit file.Despite being a significant amount of additional time and being chased to do so, Vehicle 
Credit didnt respond to my provisional decision or provide anything further for me to 
consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided from the outset, including 
Mrs As response to my provisional decision, in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I remain of the view that the two overarching questions I set out in my 
provisional decision are what I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. These are:
Did Vehicle Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs A would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
 
oIf so, was a fair lending decision made?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mrs A wouldve been able to do 
so?
 
Did Vehicle Credit act towards Mrs A unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
 
I carefully considered these questions and set out, in some detail, my findings in relation to 
them in my provisional decision of 18 March 2020. 
Given this is the case, and Ive not been provided with anything further, in relation to whether 
the complaint should be upheld, to consider, Ive not been persuaded to depart from the 
provisional findings I reached on 18 March 2020.
In these circumstances, it remains the case that I find that:
Vehicle Credit did request reasonable and proportionate information about Mrs A to 
decide whether shed be able to sustainably make the payments to her loan. 
However, its failure to properly analyse and scrutinise this information resulted in it 
unfairly lending to her; 
 
Vehicle Credit did act unfairly and unreasonably to Mrs A in some other way. This 
was because it sold on an outstanding balance to a third-party debt purchaser, which 
was unfairly and unreasonably high as it didn't reflect that the car was repossessed 
and Mrs A had only had it for a very short period of time.
 
This means that I find that Vehicle Credit didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mrs A 
when it entered into a hire purchase agreement with her. Ive already explained why Mrs A 
lost out because Vehicle Credit didnt act fairly and reasonably towards her. So Ill now set 
out what Vehicle Credit needs to do to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Vehicle Credit needs to do to put things right for Mrs A
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is 
reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean Vehicle Credit putting 
Mrs A in the position shed now be in if she hadnt been sold the car in the first place.But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Mrs A 
was given the car in question and in has since been repossessed. So, in these 
circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. And its simply not possible to put 
Mrs A back in the position she would be in if she hadnt been sold the car in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Vehicle Credit to put things right 
in the following way.
Our website sets out the main things we consider when looking at putting things right in 
cases where we conclude that a lender did something wrong in irresponsible/unaffordable 
lending complaints. We usually say that the borrower needs pay back the credit amount 
provided and that the lender should refund any interest, fees and charges that the borrower 
paid. This is because the borrower will have had the benefit of the credit that they were 
provided with and its usually the extra paid over and above this  any interest fees and 
charges  that will have caused the consumer to lose out. So this would mean Mrs A paying 
back the £7,000.00 she was originally lent less the amount that the car was sold for.
But I dont think that a refund of the interest fees and charges is appropriate here. The car 
was repossessed very soon after the agreement started. So Mrs A clearly hasnt had 
anywhere near the full benefit of what she was lent. And I dont think that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Mrs A to have to repay the remaining £2,731.00 outstanding on her balance 
once all interest fees and charges have been removed.
So Ive given careful thought to how else it might be fair and reasonable to put things right 
for Mrs A bearing in mind the particular circumstances of this case. And, in doing so, Im 
particularly mindful of the circumstances that Vehicle Credit lent to Mrs A. Ive already 
explained that Vehicle Credit lent to Mrs A when it had a substantial amount of information 
showing that Mrs As finances were in distress and shed proved unable to meet her 
commitments to a significant amount of creditors. And, in my view, this meant that Vehicle 
Credit advanced credit to Mrs A in circumstances where it ought reasonably to have realised 
that there was a significant risk it wouldnt get what it was advancing back without this 
causing Mrs A financial difficulty. 
As Vehicle Credits decision to advance a substantial amount of credit in these 
circumstances was so egregious and Mrs A has clearly been unable to pay these funds 
back, Im intending to say that Vehicle Credit provided credit in circumstances where it ought 
to have known there was realistic possibility it would never see the funds advanced and it, in 
any event, chose to take that risk. That loss went on to materialise and I think that it is 
Vehicle Credit that should now bear that loss, not Mrs A. 
So Vehicle Credit should either buy back the outstanding balance from the third-party debt 
purchaser and write it off. Or it should pay the third-party debt purchaser an amount to settle 
the outstanding debt. As Im directing Vehicle Credit to arrange for the entire outstanding 
balance on Mrs As loan to be written off  including all interest and charges  Im satisfied 
that this also puts things right for Vehicle Credit selling an unfairly high debt, which didnt in 
any way reflect that Mrs A only had the car for an incredibly short period of time, to a third-
party debt purchaser.
Mrs A paid a deposit of £150  and although it might usually be fair and reasonable to refund 
that in an upheld complaint about unaffordable lending, Im mindful that Mrs A did have use 
of the car for three months. So I think its fair and reasonable for Vehicle Credit not to refund 
Mrs As deposit as I think that this fairly and reasonably covers any fair usage deduction 
from Mrs As use of the vehicle. Mrs As credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result of the interest and charges on any loans or credit they 
shouldnt have been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer is being 
refunded and the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what they owe. 
This is what Mrs A wants to be done here. But I dont think that doing this would be the fair 
and reasonable thing to do here given my reasons for upholding the complaint.
To explain, the basis for Mrs As complaint was and is that Vehicle Credit shouldnt have lent 
to her because doing so would cause her harm. Ive accepted that this is the case, Ive 
upheld her complaint and have directed Vehicle Credit to have the balance written off, in 
large part, because of the sheer amount of negative information on her credit file. So in 
making my decision, Ive accepted Mrs A shouldnt have been lent to because of the 
seriousness of her financial position. 
It would be unreasonable for me to depart from this conclusion in terms of Mrs As affairs 
going forward  especially where Mrs A has said her financial position hasnt improved. In 
these circumstances, it seems to me that amending Mrs As credit file to remove adverse 
information (and in effect record that this credit was settled on time) and increasing the 
chances of her being able to access even more funds would be counterproductive and 
arguably not in her best interests, or those of any potential lender. 
So having carefully thought about everything, as Im asking Vehicle Credit to arrange for the 
outstanding balance to be written off, Im not going to ask it to amend Mrs As credit file. This 
means that Vehicle Credit can and should record that it has written off an outstanding 
balance on this agreement.
All of this means that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs As complaint 
for Vehicle Credit to put things right in the following way:
Either buy back the outstanding balance on Mrs As account from the third party 
debt-purchaser and write it off; OR
 
Pay the third-party debt purchaser an amount to settle any remaining liability;
 
It can record a balance was written off on this agreement on Mrs As credit file.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs As complaint. Vehicle Credit Limited 
should put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman