DRN-2693169
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (ELL) and the 
information she was given when she took out a high interest loan.
What happened
In April 2019, ELL approved Mrs Ms application for a loan of £5,000. The loan was taken to 
consolidate some of Mrs Ms existing debts, with three outstanding debts paid off using the 
loan. 
Mrs M says she took the loan after being reassured by ELL that shed be able to transfer it to 
a high street lender providing a lower rate of interest, providing she maintained payments for 
10  12 months. But when Mrs M contacted ELL to attempt this a year later, she was 
advised ELL were unable to do this. Mrs M was unhappy about this, so she raised a 
complaint. Mrs M also settled the loan in full at that time.
Mrs M complained about the information she was provided in branch when she took out the 
loan. She believed she was given assurances shed be able to transfer the loan and without 
this, she wouldnt have proceeded with the application. And she complained that ELL had 
been taking a higher monthly payment than shed expected. So, she wanted to be 
compensated for this.
ELL didnt agree. They confirmed Mrs M took a loan of £5,000 over 36 months, which 
generated a monthly payment of £281.35. They thought Mrs M signed documents in branch 
to agree to this, and that she took all the documentation away after the branch visit. They 
also didnt think theyd told Mrs M shed be able to transfer her loan after a certain amount of 
time, as it was Mrs Ms own responsibility to apply for new credit and consolidate their loan if 
she wished to do so. So, they didnt think theyd misadvised Mrs M and didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mrs M remained unhappy with this, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He did think ELL had taken a 
larger monthly payment than Mrs M expected. But he didnt think ELL needed to do anything 
more. He explained from the information Mrs M provided when she applied from the loan, 
the higher monthly amount was still affordable. And Mrs M had maintained the payments, 
without realising a higher amount had been taken. So, he thought Mrs M had been able to 
pay off more of the debt in a quicker amount of time, meaning shed paid less interest than 
she wouldve if the lower amount had been taken. So, he didnt think the difference should 
be refunded, as it would place Mrs M back in debt. 
And he didnt think hed seen evidence to show that ELL had mis-advised Mrs M regarding a 
transfer of the loan. He recognised this was Mrs Ms intention to do so, and that it had most 
likely been discussed. But he explained ELL had no way of transferring the loan to another 
lender or be able to confirm Mrs M would definitely be able to do so. So, on balance of 
probability, he thought it was unlikely ELL confirmed this would happen. So, he didnt think 
ELL needed to do anything more.
Mrs M didnt agree. She remained unhappy that ELL had taken a greater monthly payment 
than shed expected and thought she should be compensated for this. As Mrs M didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mrs M. I dont doubt she took 
the loan with ELL with the intention of transferring the balance to a lower interest loan with a 
high street lender later on. I can appreciate Mrs M wanted to do this to keep her repayments 
as low as possible, given the financial situation she was in at the time with a number of 
existing debts. So, when she realised she couldnt do this automatically, I can understand 
why shed be frustrated. And I can appreciate why this wouldve been made worse when she 
realised shed been paying more than she expected each month. 
But for me to say ELL should do something more, Id need to be satisfied of two things. First, 
Id need to see evidence to show me they misled Mrs M into taking the loan out with them. 
And Id need to be satisfied that, by paying a higher monthly amount, Mrs M was financially 
impacted to the extent that the difference in amounts should be refunded. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the loan agreement Mrs M signed in April 2019. This sets out the loan as £5,000 
repaid over a total of 36 months, with a monthly payment of £281.35. But the pre-credit 
information provided sets out the loan as £5,000 repaid over a total of 30 months, with a 
minimum monthly payment of £305.18. And Ive seen Mrs Ms credit file, which details her 
monthly payment on the loan as £305. 
From this, I think its clear there has been some confusion over the monthly payment Mrs M 
was agreeing to pay. From what I can see, I think the loan was approved on the basis that 
Mrs M would be paying £305 a month. Ive seen ELL completed an in-depth analysis of Mrs 
Ms income and expenditure, using bank statements and a copy of Mrs Ms credit file at the 
time. The loan Mrs M took out was intended to consolidate three credit cards shed struggled 
to repay into one monthly payment. This was intended to help Mrs M manage her credit 
more effectively, and positively impact her credit rating as she had a smaller number of open 
accounts. 
From what Ive seen, the £305 monthly payment wouldve been affordable to Mrs M. And I 
think this is highlighted by Mrs Ms ability to make the payment each month until the account 
was settled early, in full. Ive seen no evidence to show that Mrs M noticed she was paying a 
higher amount until she realised this when she came to settle the account. Had she been 
struggling to make the payments, I wouldve expected her to realise this sooner.
But I do agree with Mrs M that she signed the final credit agreement, which detailed the 
monthly payment to be £281.35. As this was the last document Mrs M wouldve signed, I can 
understand why she expected the payment to match this amount. And I can understand why 
shes unhappy with ELL took a payment higher than this. As ELL were the lender providing the loan, meaning they had the expertise in handling the application, I wouldve expected 
them to notice the error between the pre-contract information and the final credit agreement. 
And they didnt. So, I do think ELL made a mistake.
But just because I think ELL made a mistake, this doesnt automatically lead to me directing 
them to take further action to address it. I have to consider the situation this left Mrs M in and 
the impact it had. As Ive already explained, Mrs M was able to meet the monthly payment of 
£305. And by doing so, she was paying off more of the loan, in a quicker amount of time. 
This meant that when she came to settle the loan, she had less to pay. Mrs M had the 
benefit of the loan she was provided. So, if I was to say Mrs M should have the difference 
between the £281.35 and the £305 refunded, Mrs B would be left owing ELL an additional 
amount of money, meaning shed be placed back in debt. And this isnt something Im able 
to do. So, while I recognise there was an error made on ELLs part, I dont think they need to 
do anything more on this occasion.
Ive then considered the information Mrs M believes she was provided when she took out the 
loan initially. Mrs M believes ELL confirmed shed be able to transfer the loan to a high street 
lender if she was able to meet the monthly payments for a certain period of time. And when 
she came to do so, ELL then told her this wasnt possible.
Im unable to say for certain exactly what was said as the application was completed in 
branch, in person. So, Ive had to consider what I think was most likely to have happened, 
based on the information I have available.
And I think Mrs M and ELL discussed what Mrs M may be able to do regarding the loan in 
the future. From Mrs Ms testimony, and the fact she settled the loan early, I think its 
reasonable for me to assume that it was always Mrs Ms intention to consolidate the loan to 
another loan with a more preferable rate of interest. So, Id expect her to discuss her options 
with ELL.
But I dont think this means I think ELL purposefully mis-led Mrs M. Mrs M would always 
have been able to apply for new credit with a high street lender to consolidate the loan she 
held with ELL. But at the time Mrs M took the loan with ELL, she had a lower credit rating. By 
taking the loan with ELL, who specialise in providing credit to customers who made struggle 
to obtain it elsewhere, Mrs M would be able to improve her credit rating if she was able to 
maintain the account well. And I think is the information ELL is most likely to have explained 
to Mrs M. 
I dont think its likely ELL wouldve told Mrs M they could transfer the loan on her behalf, as 
this isnt something that any financial business is able to do. Any customer who wants to 
obtain credit had to apply for this themselves, with the lender of their choice. So, I think its 
most likely that ELL told Mrs M shed be able to apply for a loan with a high street lender if 
she maintained payments, as he credit rating wouldve improved. But I dont think this 
represents ELL promising to transfer her loan, or promising that another credit application 
would definitely be successful. So, I cant say ELL have done anything wrong when 
providing this information or that they mis-led Mrs M into taking out the loan. Because of this, 
I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs M was hoping for. But I hope the decision goes some 
way to explaining why I dont think the complaint is one we can uphold on this occasion and 
brings Mrs M some closure to the issue.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman