DRN-4149467
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the way QIC Europe Ltd has handled a claim they made for 
suspected subsidence and with how it has been recorded on external databases.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr and Mrs C made a claim to their home insurance provider  QIC  for 
cracking damage to their property. QIC appointed surveyors and later drainage specialists to 
investigate the claim on their behalf.
QIC declined the claim on the basis that there was no subsidence. It said the damage was 
most likely due to roof spread which isnt covered under the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs C have complained that QIC took too long to investigate and decline the claim. 
And they say it has incorrectly recorded the date of claim, and that the claim related to 
subsidence, on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database  which has unfairly 
impacted their renewal premium.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said the 
timescales involved in investigating and assessing the claim were reasonable. She also said 
the date of claim QIC recorded was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators conclusions. So, as no agreement had 
been reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to that reached by our investigator. So, I issued a 
provisional decision to give the parties the opportunity to respond before I reached my final 
decision. Heres what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to that reached by our 
investigator. So, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties the opportunity 
to respond before I reach my final decision.
There are several separate elements to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill address them 
in turn below.
The date of loss
Mr and Mrs C reported damage to their property to QIC in August 2021. At this point, 
they informed QIC that they had first noticed the damage around two months prior. 
For this reason, QIC recorded the date of the incident as June 2021. In the 
circumstances, this seems fair and reasonable to me, so Im not intending to direct 
QIC to amend the date of loss it recorded
The timescales
Mr and Mrs C reported cracking damage to their property in August 2021. As this 
type of damage is most often associated with subsidence, QIC appointed a surveyor 
to inspect the damage. 
The initial surveyor didnt reach a firm conclusion on whether there was subsidence 
or not. However, he highlighted that there was no apparent damage to the external 
walls, or the rooms which contained external facing walls  rather, the damage was 
localised to an internal hallway. The surveyor did note increased moisture readings in 
the bathroom and hallway. So, the claim was referred to an in-house surveyor for 
further review, and to a drainage specialist to investigate whether there were 
drainage issues.
Ive seen a timeline of the drainage specialists visits. While this does show that 
numerous visits were required, this appears to be because the drains initially needed 
to be pressure washed before a CCTV survey could be undertaken. The drainage 
specialist then needed to reattend to provide a detailed site plan, and then later to 
meet with QICs enabling contractors to discuss which enabling works were required 
so that the drainage defects could be repaired. And Ive seen copies of messages 
which were sent to Mr and Mrs C throughout this period, to keep them updated.
Taking everything into account, I dont consider there were any significant periods of 
unnecessary delay caused by QIC or its agents.
How the claim is recorded on CUE
Mr and Mrs C have complained that the claim has been recorded as a subsidence 
claim, despite being declined on the basis that there was no subsidence. They say 
this impacted their renewal premiums unfairly.
Id seen that the renewal notice they received in 2022 included a subsidence claim. 
And Id also seen that the claim record on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE) database has the Incident Description field as Subsidence. So, I wrote to 
QIC to explain that the claim should not be recorded as a subsidence claim given it 
was declined due to subsidence not being present. I also explained that if Mr and Mrs 
Cs premium had been impacted by the claim being erroneously recorded, that I 
would be inclined to award them a refund of the additional amount plus interest.
QIC has since confirmed that it has amended its records, and the record on CUE, so 
that the incident description is Cracking instead of Subsidence. It has also provided 
a summary of the premiums Mr and Mrs C have been charged. This shows that they 
were charged an increased premium in 2022. QIC says this was based on the fact 
there was an open claim, which hadnt yet been accepted or declined, rather than 
because the incident description was subsidence. And it has pointed to the fact that 
the premium decreased to normal levels in 2023, despite the claim still being 
recorded as subsidence at the point of renewal, as evidence of this.Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs C havent been charged an 
increased premium, incorrectly, due to the claim being recorded as subsidence. Im 
also satisfied that by amending the CUE record to cracking, rather than subsidence, 
that QIC has fairly corrected its error.
I asked both sides to send me any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before reaching my final decision.
QIC responded to confirm it accepted my provisional findings. 
Mr and Mrs C responded, highlighting broader concerns about QICs suggestion that the 
damage was due to roof spread. They said a specialist they employed said it is definitely not 
roof spread. They also highlighted poor communication from QIC when dealing with the 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the responses to my provisional findings. But having done so, 
my decision remains the same as outlined in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C have raised several concerns about the QICs suggestion that the cause of 
damage to their property was roof spread and about poor communication. However, these 
points were not part of the complaint which was initially brought to our service. 
At the time this complaint was referred to our service, QIC says Mr and Mrs C had accepted 
the claim decision but were unhappy with the length of time the claim took and the way it had 
been recorded. Those are the complaint points covered in QICs final response letter, and so 
are all Im considering as part of this complaint. 
Should Mr and Mrs C wish to raise a complaint about those additional points, i.e the decision 
on the claim, the suggestion that the damage was roof spread or poor communication, they 
should do so with QIC directly in the first instance.
In terms of the issues which are part of this complaint, neither side provided any further 
comments or evidence. So, in the absence of new evidence, Ive reached the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision  and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in 
part.
 
However, as QIC Europe Ltd has already amended its internal claim records, and the 
external the CUE record, Ill not be directing it to take any further action as it has already 
corrected its error.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Adam GoldingOmbudsman