DRN-2534068
The complaint
Miss C and Mr Hs complaint is about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim made 
under Miss Cs home insurance policy.
AXA has dealt with Mr H directly during the claim, so for ease of reference Ill also refer to 
Mr H in my decision.
All references to AXA include their appointed agents.
What happened
Mr H says his property suffered from an escape of water in April 2019. A claim was 
made on Miss Cs home insurance. AXA settled part of the claim but placed the 
remainder on hold due to further investigations.
Mr H wasnt happy about this and he complained to AXA.
AXA said it had put the claim on hold because it wanted to ask Mr H some questions 
about the circumstances by interview but hadnt been able to. AXA paid Mr H £200 
compensation for poor service, but it said the claim couldnt proceed until these 
questions were answered.
Mr H didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Mr H said his medical condition 
meant he was unable to do the interview with AXA.
After investigating, our investigator recommended AXA conduct the interview over 
the phone and in smaller time slots as a reasonable adjustment for Mr Hs medical 
condition. AXA agreed to this, Mr H didnt. Our investigator found AXA had 
considered Mr Hs needs fairly, and that its offer of compensation was reasonable, so 
they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H doesnt agree. He says AXA should honour its liability under the policy and 
settle the remainder of the claim.
The complaint has now been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
To be able to uphold Mr Hs complaint, I need to decide whether the evidence AXA 
already has about the claim is reasonable for it to make an informed decision on the 
outcome. And if dont think it is, I also need to decide if AXA has considered Mr Hs 
needs in trying to arrange an interview to discuss the claim.
 
Mr H says AXA has breached its contract by refusing to pay for all the necessary 
repairs. Ive checked Mr Hs policy which states, To help prove your claim we may 
require you provide original purchase receipts, invoicesutility bills and it goes on 
to state, We will only ask for information relevant to your claimYou must assist us 
with any enquiries we have regarding your claim as it will enable us to deal with it 
quickly. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, it appears there are outstanding matters which 
AXA are seeking to clarify. And I can see AXA has already shared a concern it has 
about the occupancy of the property to Mr H, including the type of evidence it would 
require in order to clarify this. The evidence falls into the example set out in the policy 
terms above. I dont find this unusual in the course of a claim, and I dont think AXA 
has been unreasonable in requesting this information. So based on everything Ive 
seen, Im not satisfied AXA can make a decision to settle the remainder of the claim 
in the circumstances.
AXA has said that it wont be able to continue with the claim unless the interview 
takes place. It says there are further matters outstanding which would require a direct 
response from Mr H. Ive seen a list of the concerns raised with the claim against the 
evidence provided, and Im satisfied that AXA has acted reasonably in wanting to 
clarify these matters. So I find Mr H is required to assist AXA here in line with the 
policy terms.
  
Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Mr H is unable to use the phone. I can 
see he has been in contact with our service and our investigator in this way. In 
addition, I can see Mr H attended the initial loss adjuster visit and has been able to 
get quotes for repair work and other damage. And as AXA have already said it is 
willing to break the interview down into smaller time slots, I see this as a fair and 
reasonable way for the claim to progress whilst taking Mr Hs medical condition into 
account.
I can see AXA has paid Mr H £200 compensation for some missed call-backs, and 
for the times he was required to chase matters with it to progress the claim. Having 
looked at everything, I find AXAs offer of compensation reasonable and I wont 
require it pay any more.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman