DRN-2616495
The complaint
Mrs F complains that she was given unsuitable advice by Cambrian Associates Limited 
trading as Cambrian Chartered Financial Planners (Cambrian), to transfer her deferred 
benefits in an occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). Causing her to lose valuable pension benefits. 
What happened
Mrs F and her husband  Mr F - were referred to Cambrian in 2015 by her financial advisor, 
who wasn't authorised to provide advice on pension transfers. They met with Cambrian and 
their existing adviser. They both had deferred benefits in OPSs. Cambrian obtained a fact-
find to understand their objectives. 
The fact-find document that Cambrian completed in June 2015 shows that: 
Mrs F was 52 years of age and had deferred benefits in an OPS payable at age 60;
Mr F was 50 years of age and had deferred benefits in an OPS payable at age 65;
Mr and Mrs F had no surplus income after expenditure;
Mr and Mrs F had no financial liabilities;
Mr and Mrs F had £3,600 in joint savings and no investments.
Mrs Fs OPS had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) around £55,000. Cambrian 
obtained a transfer analysis report (TVAS) for Mrs F. It calculated that at age 60 Mrs F would 
receive a pension of around £5,500 a year and a lump sum of around £11,000. 
The TVAS calculated that the critical yield (the level of investment return required to match 
the defined benefits being given up) was 24.36% a year to age 60. 
Cambrian recommended that Mrs F transfer her OPS to a SIPP with a recommended 
investment based on the attitude to risk it had calculated for her using its questionnaire. 
Mrs F accepted Cambrians recommendation and transferred her pension to the SIPP. 
Cambrian separately provided advice to Mr F regarding his OPS. Although that advice arose 
from the same exercise, its subject of a separate complaint and I have considered it 
separately.
Mrs F complained to Cambrian via a claims management company. For simplicity, I'll simply 
refer to Mrs F in this decision. The complaint was that the advice to transfer was unsuitable 
and that Mrs F has lost valuable guaranteed benefits.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Fs complaint and thought that it should be upheld. 
Cambrian didnt agree with our investigators view and the case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where I haven't specifically commented on any individual argument raised its not because I 
haven't considered it. But rather that I havent considered it as pertinent to the outcome I've 
reached. Having considered everything in this case I'm upholding Mrs Fs complaint for 
similar reasons to our investigator. 
In reaching my decision I've considered Cambrians obligations at the time they gave this 
advice. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out rules and principles in its conduct of 
business sourcebook (COBS) and principles of business (PRIN). Put simply, they placed a 
requirement on Cambrian to act with due care, skill and diligence and have due regard for 
the best interests of Mrs F. And as our investigator pointed out, specific rules around 
pension transfers placed additional burdens on Cambrian. Including the regulators direction 
that the starting point for pension transfers should be that they are not in consumers best 
interests. 
At the time that Cambrian were advising Mrs F she was not yet of an age to take her 
pension. She was eight years from the pension age of her OPS scheme and three years 
from being able to access flexible benefits from a personal pension. Cambrian had to obtain 
a TVAS in order to be able to compare Mrs Fs existing benefits with those that she may get 
by transferring. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement was quoted as 24.36% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 3.8% 
per year for around 8 years to retirement in this case. Against this measure of achievable 
growth it was highly unlikely that Mrs F would be able to match the benefits she was giving 
up by transferring to a pension and taking on the investment risk. 
Cambrian didn't use this discount rate as an indicator of achievable growth for Mrs F. It 
provided projections based on the standard industry projections for lower middle and upper 
rate growth, of 2% 5% and 8% respectively. All of which shouldve served to illustrate that 
transferring would be unlikely to improve Mrs Fs pension.
Cambrian used a questionnaire to determine Mrs Fs attitude to risk. It says that based on 
that questionnaire she had an attitude to risk of seven out of ten on that scale. Our 
investigator explained why she didn't think that was likely to accurately reflect Mrs Fs attitude 
to risk. Cambrian have strongly argued to the contrary. But for the purposes of this decision I 
don't believe it's relevant.
Even assuming that Cambrians assessment of Mrs Fs attitude to risk was correct, it still 
wouldn't have been realistic to suppose that she could get investment returns equivalent to, 
or better than, the critical yield. And Cambrian identify this in its recommendation to her. In 
its summary of recommendations it said that it wouldn't normally recommend the transfer as 
the critical yield was 24.36%. But it went on to recommend the transfer in spite of the 
likelihood of reduced benefits in retirement. Given that it seems accepted that the transfer 
wasnt financially viable (it couldnt match, let alone improve on the existing benefits), I'll 
consider the reasons that Cambrian suggested the transfer was suitable advice for Mrs F. A key piece of evidence in understanding Cambrians recommendation is the financial 
planning report for Mrs F from July 2015. I understand that Mrs F says that she hadn't seen 
the contents of this report in full at the time. But I think its likely this formed the basis of 
Cambrians recommendation at the time it was given. It reflects the information recorded in 
their fact-find and the TVAS. 
It appears to support the transfer entirely on the basis that Mrs F wanted to break any 
connexion with her previous employer or its pension fund. This is something that Mrs F 
disputes. But it appears to be the only reason provided by Cambrian at the time of 
transferring her pension. So Ive considered whether or not it was a reason that meant a 
financially unviable transfer could have been in Mrs Fs best interests. 
The recommendation considers the solvency of Mrs Fs OPS. It indicates a potential funding 
shortfall in the scheme. But didn't conclude that Mrs Fs benefits were at high risk. And 
although the Pension Protection fund was explained Cambrian didn't provide a comparison 
of what Mrs Fs benefits would look like under that scheme. Which it ought to have done if it 
considered her OPS was likely to default. 
In the case of Mrs Fs OPS the benefits that she already had were guaranteed and it was 
highly unlikely that she would be able to get close to matching them if she were to transfer 
her pension. Whilst I would agree that Cambrian highlighted the risks I don't think it did 
enough to explain how much worse off in retirement Mrs F was likely to be. Even if her OPS 
defaulted and went into the Pension Protection fund. Ultimately, any emotional reason that 
Mrs F had to want to break ties with her former employer, if such existed, shouldn't have 
influenced the advice that Cambrian gave. Based on its financial planning report, Cambrians 
recommendation to Mrs F wasn't suitable. 
During the investigation of our complaint Cambrian have explained that the transfer to the 
SIPP was suitable because it allowed Mrs F the option of investing in commercial property. 
Which I can see was listed on the fact-find under other notes. But I think it was unlikely this 
idea was very developed. Mr and Mrs F have no recollection of wanting to invest in 
commercial property. But if they had, I would have expected Cambrian to have considered 
that investment prior to recommending the transfer.
I say that because the regulator made it clear that financial advisors need to consider the 
intended or underlying investments to be able to determine whether a transfer is suitable. 
There is no evidence from the fact-find or the financial planning report that Cambrian gave 
any further consideration to the idea of a commercial property investment. The projections it 
gave for Mrs Fs pension were all based on its recommended investment into a portfolio held 
within the SIPP. Im unconvinced that Cambrians recommendation was based on Mrs Fs 
desire to invest in commercial property. So I don't think this supports the suitability of the 
transfer. 
Cambrian have provided us with the cash flow analysis for Mrs Fs SIPP. It says that this is 
evidence that Mrs F can meet her financial objective. It's dated June 2020 so not 
contemporary evidence of something that Cambrian considered prior to making its 
recommendation to Mrs F. 
It focuses on the fact that Mrs F identified a target net income of £10,000 a year in 
retirement. And cash flow analysis shows that minimum requirement is met using her 
retirement fund and her state pension. Whilst that shows that Mrs Fs pension fund would 
likely provide her target income throughout her lifetime, it isn't a fair comparison with the 
benefits that she gave up in transferring. Mrs F was asked to provide a figure for the income she would need in retirement in the fact-
find in June 2015. Which was prior to the TVAS being completed, which then showed the 
revalued pension benefit that Mrs F would have from her existing scheme. The revalued 
benefits  around £5,500  from age 60 meant that Mrs F would already, comfortably, 
exceed the income she required when she reached state pension age. In fact the TVAS 
explained that taking the same level of income from a transferred pension fund would result 
in the fund being exhausted by age 69 assuming a mid-rate investment return of 5%. 
Cambrians recommendation should have reassured Mrs F that doing nothing guaranteed 
her a higher income than she estimated needing.
I understand that Mrs F had been interested in the idea of transferring after speaking to her 
financial advisor. But it was Cambrians role to consider the full implications of a transfer for 
Mrs F. For the reasons Ive given, I think that Cambrian should have recommended that 
Mrs F left her deferred OPS benefits where they were. 
I can see that its report gave the following warning to Mrs F: this course of action carries a 
very real risk that your retirement fund will be lower than it would have been if you had not 
carried out the transfer. But highlighting the pitfalls of a recommendation doesnt make an 
unsuitable recommendation suitable. Mrs F was likely to place weight on the actual 
recommendation that Cambrian gave. It should have more clearly pointed out that it wasn't 
in her best interests to transfer and why, rather than validate any concern that she might 
have had about remaining in her former employers scheme by implying that warranted the 
transfer.
Based on the evidence that I've seen, I think that a clear unequivocal recommendation from 
Cambrian not to transfer would have meant Mrs F remaining in her scheme. Neither her nor 
her husband intended to retire until 67. Its far from clear it was ever the intention to 
purchase commercial property and take that kind of investment risk. By clearly pointing out 
that Mr and Mrs Fs target incomes in retirement could already be exceeded without 
transferring ought to have been a very persuasive reason to retain the OPS that she already 
had.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Cambrian to put Mrs F, as far as possible, into 
the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. 
Cambrian must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
Cambrian have asked that, if the complaint is upheld, redress should take the form of 
providing a deferred annuity. But there is clear guidance from our regulator on how cases 
such as this should be put right. And Ive seen no persuasive argument to depart from the 
regulatory guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Fs acceptance of the decision.
Cambrian may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mrs Fs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P).These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Fs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Fs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs F as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs F within 90 days of the date 
Cambrian receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Cambrian to pay Mrs F.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Cambrian to pay Mrs F the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Cambrian 
to pay Mrs F any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Cambrian to pay 
Mrs F any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Cambrian pays Mrs F the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs F.
If Mrs F accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Cambrian. My recommendation 
is not binding on Cambrian. Further, its unlikely that Mrs F can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mrs F may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Fs complaint and direct Cambrian Associates 
Limited (trading as Cambrian Chartered Financial Planners) to compensate Mrs F in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman