DRN-3209392
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about their mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC. They say 
that Barclays unfairly reported adverse information on their credit files, and that if Barclays 
had told them their credit files would be impacted then they would have borrowed money 
from family to cover the payments.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part and said Barclays should:
Reconstruct the account so that instead of £2,575.38 being due in October 2020, 
£668.80 was due.
Reconstruct the account so that instead of £2,575.38 a month being due for six-
months from January 2021, the amount of £613.29 a month was due for that period.
Ensure that Mr and Mrs S credit files were been updated to show the above 
amendments.
She also said that Barclays should record that there was an arrangement on the mortgage 
between October 2020 and August 2021 and pay a further £150 for the trouble and upset 
caused by the arrangements not being set up correctly (on top of the previous compensation 
offered).
But she felt the information recorded on Mr and Mrs S credit file should remain. She 
summarised this as:
October 2020  Missed payment (arrears of 1 full contractual monthly payment)
November 2020  Missed payment (arrears of 2 full contractual monthly payments)
December 2020  Arrangement (arrears for 3 full contractual monthly payments 
minus payment in December 2020)
Between January and June 2021, I think Barclays should report arrangement. If any 
payments were not made, I do not think its unreasonable for Barclays to report this 
as such.
Barclays accepted that but Mr and Mrs S didnt. They said:
Barclays didnt tell them the interest only arrangement would have an adverse impact 
on their credit file, and they wouldnt have entered into the agreement if theyd been 
told.
Barclays only asked for a manual payment for October 2020, the payments after that 
should have been collected by direct debit.
Had they been informed the lower payments would affect their credit files they would 
have borrowed the funds they needed to pay their full mortgage payment from family 
members.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Ive carefully considered everything Mr and Mrs S have said and provided to us but Im not 
persuaded they would have done anything differently. Ill explain.
Mr and Mrs S said (in respect of the payments they missed in October and November 2020)
They asked for a manual payment for October only, as they tried to take a DD for the full 
amount, as it should have been for the interest only amount agreed and the remaining 
payments would be taken by DD, which they failed to set up and its accepted they 
cancelled the DD. And,
Incorrect, it was agreed that one manual payment would be done for October and the 
rest on DD, which Barclays cancelled.
But I dont agree. Ive reviewed the letters that were sent at the time and listened to the call 
where the October arrangement was set up.
In the call Mr and Mrs S said they didnt have the money to make the payment that month, 
after being told that payment needed to be made by the end of the month, which was in a 
few days time. It was agreed that the account would be switched to interest only for three 
months. The adviser told them that it was too late to amend the direct debit so it would be 
suspended to try to stop it collecting the full mortgage payment, and that Mr and Mrs S 
needed to make the lower payment before the end of October. They were then told they 
either needed to phone Barclays in November to reinstate the direct debit, or they could 
make manual payments for November and December, and then phone up in December to 
reinstate the direct debit ready for January.
This was confirmed in a letter dated 29 October 2020 which said:
As requested, the Direct Debit below has been suspended.
This means we wont collect any more payments using this Direct Debit until you ask us 
to.
If your Direct Debit was suspended less than three full working days before a payment 
was due, we may still collect that payment.
If you want to start using this Direct Debit again, please contact us on [phone number].
Having considered everything Im satisfied Mr and Mrs S were aware the direct debit 
wouldnt collect any further payments until they phoned Barclays to get it restarted, and 
theyd have to make manual payments until then. For that reason Barclays doesnt need to 
amend the information it recorded about the payments Mr and Mrs S missed in October and 
November 2020.
Returning to the October 2020 call, I agree that the adviser didnt tell Mr and Mrs S that their 
credit files would be impacted by the interest only temporary concession. But thats not the 
only consideration. I also need to decide if I think Mr and Mrs S would have done anything differently if theyd been given the correct information, and having considered everything I 
dont think they would.
Mr and Mrs S said they would have borrowed money from family to make the full monthly 
payments if theyd been told the lower payments would impact their credit files.
In the October call Mr S said that they couldnt afford the October payment, and then he and 
Mrs S didnt pay the agreed lower instalment for either that month or for November. Theyve 
said that was an oversight.
But in a call in January 2021 when a further six-month interest only plan was set up Mr S 
was told it would impact their credit files and he still agreed to go ahead.
Mr S asked So whatever agreement we come to, does that affect my credit file? and he 
was told that it would. He asked a similar question again later in the call This will adversely 
affect my credit file, yes? and again was told it would. Then the adviser read out a script 
which said that the difference between the full monthly payment and the lower agreed 
amount will accrue as arrears, and the arrears will be reported to the credit reference 
agencies. Mr S accepted that saying I agree to your terms cos I have no option, but I am 
going to take this to my MP.
If Mr and Mrs S could have borrowed money from family to stop their credit files being 
impacted I would have expected them to do it from January 2021 when Mr S was explicitly 
told their credit files would be affected, but they didnt. Instead they made the lower monthly 
payments in the awareness of the impact it would have. For that reason Im satisfied the 
information recorded about the reduced payment arrangement has been correctly recorded 
and so doesnt need to be amended.
I agree with our investigator that the payments due in October 2020 and January 2021 
should be amended to reflect the lower payment arrangements that were agreed in the calls 
in those months, rather than the full contractual monthly payments, and Mr and Mrs S credit 
files should be amended to reflect those changes.
It is clear there has been confusion about the various arrangements and for that reason I 
agree with our investigator that a further £150 compensation is due for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr and Mrs S.
 
Putting things right
I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay £150 compensation to Mr and Mrs S.
Reconstruct the mortgage account so that the payment due in October 2020 was the 
lower arrangement amount, rather than the full contractual monthly payment. It 
should then update Mr and Mrs S credit reference file information accordingly.
Reconstruct the mortgage account so that the payment due in January 2021 was the 
lower arrangement amount, rather than the full contractual monthly payment. It 
should then update Mr and Mrs S credit reference file information accordingly.
Record the mortgage account was in an arrangement from October 2020 to July 
2021 (inclusive).Record any other missed / late payments as appropriate. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to resolve it as Ive set out 
above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 January 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman