DRN-2624912
The complaint
Mr E complains that Arrow Global Limited obtained a county court judgment (CCJ) against 
him without his knowledge. Although the CCJ has since been set aside by consent, Mr E 
wants Arrow to pay him compensation.  
What happened
In 2014, Arrow took over an outstanding debt in Mr Es name from a business that I will call 
H. Over the next four years, Arrow appointed various debt collectors to try and recover the 
debt.
In December 2018, Arrow obtained a CCJ. Mr E says that the first time he knew about this 
was when he received notice that the bailiff was involved in trying to enforce CCJ. Mr E was 
unhappy that the bailiffs letter didnt include his full address. This meant his landlord opened 
the letter causing embarrassment and the potential he might be made move out. 
The investigator recommended that Mr Es complaint be upheld. He recommended that 
Arrow pay £350 compensation.
Arrow doesnt agree with the investigators recommendation. It says the problem stems from 
the fact that Mr E moved address without telling H. Arrow says the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) has confirmed that it was correct to use Mr Es last known 
address for correspondence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Arrows argument that it didnt do anything wrong when it used Mr Es last 
known address for service of the court proceedings which led to the CCJ. But over a four-
year period, several different collection companies attempted contact and received no 
response.
The Civil Procedure Rules set out how claim forms are to be served where the defendant 
doesnt give an address (as in this case). Rule 6.9 says that papers should be served on the 
usual or last known residence. However, the rule goes on to say that where a claimant has 
reason to believe the address is one at which the defendant no longer resides, the claimant 
must take reasonable steps to ascertain the defendants current address. And that where 
having taken such steps, the claimant ascertains the defendants current address, the claim 
form must be served at the current address found.
Although not responding to letters doesnt necessarily mean that Mr E wasnt at the address 
H held for him, it does give rise to that possibility. To try and make things clear, I will refer to 
the address H gave for Mr E as Address 1 and his current address as Address 2.
I can see that Arrow did try and trace Mr E and there is some conflicting evidence on file. 
Arrow says that in October 2018, the best address for Mr E was Address 1 with three lines of 
credit. But by December 2019  when it came to enforce the CCJ, the best address was 
Address 2. 
However, there is another note on Arrows case report which says that it had originally 
received Address 2 as a strong verified trace in October 2017. The same address was then 
received a month later from a different credit reference agency and again in 2018. The note 
says three credit lines and one credit card application supported Address 2.
Taking the lack of response from Mr E and the tracing of Address 2, I think Arrow had 
reason to believe that Mr E might no longer live at Address 1. I dont have any evidence to 
suggest Arrow tried to contact Mr E at Address 2 until after the CCJ had been obtained. 
Arrow says it cant be held responsible for Mr E failing to update his address with H. But if   
Mr E doesnt consider that he owes money to H, I cant say that he shouldve been keeping 
H updated with his change of address.
As Mr E promptly complained once he received the notice about the bailiff action, it seems 
likely he wouldve dealt with Arrows correspondence and claim had he received it earlier. 
This might have saved Mr E the trouble of applying to set aside the CCJ and the worry of a 
possible bailiff visit.
I dont want to downplay Mr Es embarrassment when his landlord opened the bailiff letter. I 
can see that the ICO has asked Arrow to put measures in place to stop this happening in 
future. These include verifying the traced address with its customer and marking letters 
private or to be opened by the addressee only. But I also think Mr Es landlord shouldnt 
have opened letters not addressed to them. 
Im satisfied the award of £350 adequately compensates Mr E for all the upset he has 
suffered.
Putting things right
To put things right, Arrow Global Limited must pay Mr E £350.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Arrow Global 
Limited should take the steps outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman