DRN-2559212
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Utmost Life and Pensions Limited (ULP) didnt issue her with 
confirmation of her new investments following the implementation of the scheme of 
arrangement for Equitable Life.
What happened
Mrs W said she was sent papers about the scheme of arrangements for Equitable life. She 
was asked to make a choice about her future investments. She said she opted for a multi 
asset fund and asked for a conversion period of not more than a month. This was due to be 
implemented in early January 2020, but she didnt get any confirmation it had happened. 
She received her statement of valuation in around April time but no detail about what had 
been purchased and when. She felt she should have had a statement of the transition 
showing a week by week selling and buying of units and their prices and this information 
should have been provided as a matter of course. She wanted compensation for the lack of 
clarity over the transition process and the need to call ULP.
ULP said detailed information was available on request and it had responded to the request 
from Mrs W. It wouldnt normally send out this information until requested as it had made a 
commercial decision not to send such detailed confirmation to everyone. It did this so that 
policyholders were not overwhelmed with paperwork. She had now received the information 
requested and it saw no reason to pay any compensation.
The investigator didnt think ULP had done anything wrong. He said comprehensive details 
were provided to Mrs W about the Equitable Life and ULP scheme of arrangement and the 
transition process. He understood her frustrations at not receiving confirmation that the 
switch had been carried out. But ULP said it made a business decision not to do this due to 
the volume of paper especially those who opted for a longer transition period (which could 
be up to nine months) and the risk policy holders would feel overwhelmed. It felt the 
information on its website, the detailed communication and the annual statements would be 
enough. Also, policyholders could contact ULP if they wished which is what had happened. 
He didnt think ULP had done anything wrong. It was entitled to take its own commercial 
decisions and was able to provide information on request. Mrs W suffered some 
inconvenience in having to contract ULP but didnt think this merited compensation. He didnt 
think ULP had done anything wrong and wasnt going to ask them to do anything more. 
Mrs W didnt agree. ULP had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ws frustration. She had received a very large volume of information in 
the form of lengthy booklets regarding the scheme of arrangement. But nothing was sent to 
confirm her investment instructions had been followed correctly. While she received a 
valuation, she didnt think this provided enough detail. 
I note ULP say they do issue statements for normal investment switches but on this occasion 
all policy holders were affected due to the scheme of arrangement. The volume of papers 
issued and impact on the individual couldve meant they felt overwhelmed and they took a 
commercial decision not to send individual statements along the lines Mrs W suggested. 
They also had regard to the fact the information was available on request.
ULP is entitled to make its own commercial decisions and this service cannot direct it to 
change its position on this. It wasnt required to issue confirmation Mrs W wanted as a 
matter of course and confirmed information was available on request. I think it wouldve been 
helpful for Mrs W to have had confirmation and the reassurance that matters had proceeded 
correctly. But I accept ULP wasnt required to do this and the information was available and 
provided on request. Although I accept Mrs W was frustrated that she needed to ask.
As I have concluded that ULP didnt make a mistake, I cannot consider an award for distress 
and inconvenience. But even if I had concluded it made a mistake it wouldnt have made a 
difference as I think the level of inconvenience was moderate and the matter quickly 
resolved by the provision of the information. So, I would not in any event have made an 
award. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman