DRN-3729239
The complaint
Mr M complains Phoenix Life Limited gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his pensions, 
and hasnt demonstrated it correctly carried out a later Pension Review.
Mr M is represented by a claims management company, but for ease Ill refer only to Mr M.
What happened
Mr M had an occupational pension scheme (OPS). On the advice of a company Phoenix 
later became responsible for, in 1991 Mr M transferred this to a number of personal 
pensions.
Soon after, the regulator established an industry-wide review of particular pension business 
carried out between 1988 and 1994, known as the Pensions Review. In 1999 Phoenix 
offered Mr M a Pension Review as part of this, which Mr M accepted. Following the review, 
Phoenix sent Mr M a letter in November 1999 to say its 1991 advice hadnt reached the 
required standard and had caused Mr M a financial loss. It also said Phoenix would put this 
right by giving Mr M £3,456 through a new personal pension policy, which Mr M accepted. 
In 2021, Mr M complained to Phoenix about the suitability of its 1991 advice. He said hed 
only recently become aware he had cause for complaint because as a layperson, he wasnt 
aware the 1991 advice didnt meet the standards required, so no time limits for making a 
complaint applied here. Mr M wanted Phoenix to provide redress in line with the regulators 
guidance. 
Phoenix said the suitability of its 1991 advice was addressed in its 1999 Pension Review, 
and it paid Mr M compensation based on the regulators assumptions and guidance at that 
time. And while those hadnt been borne out, the Pension Review was intended to be a one-
off exercise that drew a line under things. So Phoenix didnt need to do anything further 
here, and it thought Mr M had brought this complaint too late for our Service to be able to 
consider it in any case.
Mr M brought his complaint to our Service. He said Phoenix hadnt provided evidence of its 
1999 Pension Review, so he couldnt tell if it had been carried out properly. Therefore, 
Phoenix should carry out a calculation in line with the regulators guidance in FG17/9.
Our Investigator thought Phoenix had carried out Mr Ms 1999 Pension Review in 
accordance with the regulators guidance at that time, and wasnt required to carry out 
another calculation for Mr M. He also shared evidence of Phoenixs review with Mr M.
Mr M maintained Phoenix hadnt demonstrated it had carried out the 1999 review in line with 
the regulators guidance. As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M complains the 1991 advice was unsuitable. But theres no need for me to consider this 
because Phoenixs 1999 Pension Review accepted that advice was unsuitable. Therefore, 
whats left for me to consider is whether Phoenix carried out Mr Ms Pension Review 
correctly and in line with the regulators guidance at that time.
Phoenixs 1999 Pension Review calculated Mr M had been caused a financial loss of 
£3,456. Our Service provided Mr M with evidence of the review, including a copy of the 
calculations and the information and assumptions they were based on. But Mr M thinks 
Phoenix hasnt demonstrated it carried out the Pension Review correctly, and should now 
carry out a calculation in line with the regulators guidance in FG17/9.
Its important to note that under the industry wide Pensions Review established by the 
regulator, businesses were only required to conduct the review once, using the standards 
and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the assumptions 
or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the future loss. 
In general, the assumptions to be used for the calculation were those relevant to the time
that the calculation was done, and compensation was paid on this basis. This included
where mistakes were discovered in the original calculations  a re-calculation would usually
be done using the same assumptions that applied at the date of the original calculation.
Unfortunately, in many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt
materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, has had an impact on the benefits
provided by personal pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid following
the review, plus the existing value of the pension, would be high enough to match the OPS
benefits at retirement date, this hasnt been the case for many consumers. But that alone 
isnt a reason to carry out a further Pension Review and recalculate compensation.
The Pension Review was intended to be a one-off exercise. So businesses could provide 
redress for mis-selling, knowing they wouldnt be liable for future compensation. And 
consumers could be reassured that the mis-selling had been recognised and put right at that 
point in time using what were considered reasonable assumptions without needing to revisit 
the matter many years later. Because of this, the Pension Review was a very tightly 
regulated process, subject to supervision and sampling at the time by the regulator.
The regulators current guidance, referred to as FG17/9, was originally aimed at complaints
upheld about OPS transfers received after 3 August 2016 or received before this date that
hadnt been settled in full and final settlement already. It was initially intended that any case 
that fell within the Pension Review period would be excluded from this updated guidance.
However, it was subsequently decided some cases could be included - where reviews by
businesses hadnt been carried out in accordance with regulatory standards at the time of
the review - and/or where the particular circumstances of a case were not addressed by
those standards.
The onus under this guidance is on the consumer to show theres been a mistake. But 
Mr Ms not said why he believes Phoenix didnt carry out its Pension Review in line with the 
regulators guidance, or what aspect of the redress calculation he may think is unclear or 
erroneous. So, its difficult for me address this point now.
Nonetheless, Ive considered the evidence provided by Phoenix and I havent seen anything 
to persuade me its review was carried out incorrectly. Im satisfied it checked whether 
Mr Ms benefits could be reinstated into the OPS  they could not. And there dont appear to 
be any errors in respect of the information or assumptions used to calculate the redress.In the absence of any evidence from Mr M that incorrect details or assumptions were used, I 
think his pension transfer advice was reviewed and compensation was calculated in line with 
the regulators guidance and requirements at the time. I also havent seen anything which 
persuades me to say Phoenix should carry out a new calculation using the FG17/9 
guidance. So, it follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
For these reasons, Im not asking Phoenix to do anything further here, though I realise this 
isnt the answer Mr M hoped for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman