DRN-4445476
The complaint
Mr R complains that U K Insurance limited (UKI) declined his claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
 
What happened
Mr R said his car was vandalised whilst it was on his driveway and parts were stolen. It was 
deemed to be a total loss. UKI investigated the claim and thought Mr R wasnt being entirely 
honest about the claim circumstances. So it declined the claim and said it would cancel the 
policy. 
our investigators view
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
evidence UKI had relied on to decide that the claim was fraudulent was mostly conjecture. 
He thought UKI may have mixed up the keys Mr R sent in for analysis. So he thought UKI 
should reconsider the claim under the policys remaining terms and conditions and, if an 
award was made, it should add interest to this.
UKI replied that the number of issues with the claim justified its decision and it said Mr R had 
changed his story to suit. It restated its reasons for declining the claim. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to UKI on 6 October 2023. I summarise my findings:
I could understand that Mr R felt frustrated that UKI declined his claim. He helpfully provided 
detailed responses to UKIs concerns about his claim. And I considered these alongside 
UKIs submissions. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. UKI relied on a General 
Condition of the policy to decline the claim:
9. Fraud
You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times. We will not pay a claim that is in 
any way fraudulent false or exaggerated.
We will not pay a claim that is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated.
I thought this was a common exclusion in motor insurance policies and I didnt find it 
unusual. And I thought it was sufficiently brought to Mr Rs attention in the policy documents 
for UKI to rely on it. 
In all cases we deal with, we need to try to establish what was more likely to have happened 
on the balance of probabilities, based on the available evidence. And this is no different with 
fraud cases. While fraud is a serious allegation, and potentially a criminal offence, the test is 
still whether it is more likely than not that the consumer committed fraud. So UKI needed to 
provide evidence that it was more likely than not Mr R had made a fraudulent claim.
UKI had a number of concerns about the claim. And I considered these, the evidence 
provided and Mr Rs responses. 
Mr R wasnt alerted to the theft either by the cars alarm or its tracker.
The parts theft took place during the evening or overnight. Mr R said he had a number of 
guests at the time and the room they met in was at the back of the house. So he thought 
they would have been unlikely to have heard the alarm if it had sounded. Mr R also said that 
his tracker app was set for his previous car and hadnt been activated for his current car. He 
offered to provide evidence that he had reported this to the dealer for remedy. But Mr R had 
earlier said that the app alerted him when the cars doors or windows were left open. So I 
was not persuaded by his account. 
The thieves had time to remove parts and also cut additional cabling without being detected.
UKI obtained an engineers report on the parts removed. It noted that some wires had been 
cut possibly to sabotage the cars electronic data. UKI thought this would have added to the 
time it took to complete the theft and so increased the likelihood of detection. 
UKI also thought the car may have had multiple faults and was possibly not driveable. I 
didnt see evidence that these faults existed before the theft and the damage to the wiring. 
Mr R said hed driven the car earlier and offered to provide a witness to support this. I 
couldnt see that UKI followed this up, but as the witness was a relative I couldnt say that his 
testimony would be independent. So I thought it was reasonable for UKI be concerned about 
why the thieves had taken the time to cut wires unconnected to the theft of parts. 
The car was parked outside Mr Rs house below his bedroom window. But I couldnt see that 
it had been established that the theft took place after Mr R went to bed. Mr R explained that 
he has sensor lights at the front of the house. But his view of the car would have been 
obscured by furniture in the bedroom window. 
UKI thought the houses location on a busy road would have made it unlikely for the theft to 
occur as Mr R described. I could see that the car was parked facing the house and between 
two other cars. So this could have obscured the thieves from view. But Mr R had a house full 
of guests at the time. And I thought it was reasonable for UKI to conclude that it was unlikely 
that thieves would have had the time to remove the parts and cut extra wires without 
detection. 
There was no indication of forced entry.
Mr R said hed last used the car early in the evening and he was sure hed locked it. Mr R 
told UKIs investigator that at night the key was stored in a foil pouch under the stairs. But, 
after the claim was declined, he said it was kept in a bowl by the front door. Mr R later 
explained that he moved the key to the pouch at night when he went to bed. But I thought it 
was reasonable for UKI to regard this as a change in Mr Rs story. 
UKIs engineer said the car was subject to relay theft so this could have been possible if the 
keys were in the bowl near the house door. UKI raised the question that if the thieves were 
able to access the car (they had to open the bonnet from inside the car) why hadnt they 
stolen the car itself, if it was drivable? So I thought the change in story, the lack of a forced 
entry and the theft just of parts were reasonable concerns. 
CCTV footage wasnt provided by a neighbouring garage.
Mr R explained that the footage was only kept for 30 days so it wouldnt have been available 
when UKIs investigator asked to see it. I noted that Mr R, in his statement, said the cameras 
werent focused on his property but the investigator saw that they were. I didnt think it was 
reasonable for UKI to hold Mr R responsible for any lack of co-operation from the garage. 
But I thought this was another valid concern. 
One of the keys Mr R provided was for a different car.UKI found that the spare key was programmed to another car stolen and unrecovered some 
years earlier. No explanation was provided about how Mr R would have had access to this 
key. I thought it was unlikely that a reputable dealer would have provided Mr R with a stolen 
key. And UKI provided evidence that the two keys were kept together after the recovery, 
albeit several agencies had control of the keys for some time after the car was recovered. 
Mr R firstly said that the recovery agent checked that both keys activated the car. But he 
later said the battery in the spare key had been removed when the battery in the main key 
was flat. So the agent couldnt have checked it without inserting a battery, and Mr R didnt 
mention this at the time. So I thought it was likely the stolen key was in Mr Rs possession 
and it was reasonable for UKI to be concerned about this.
Mr Rs GAP insurance was due to expire shortly. 
Mr R explained that he wasnt aware that he had GAP insurance. He explained that this 
came to light after the theft. But this was different from what hed told UKIs investigator. He 
explained that the GAP insurance was transferred from his previous car for free by the same 
seller. So I was persuaded that Mr R would have known that this was in place. 
Mr Rs car had pre-existing damage that hadnt been repaired and this would make returning 
the car at the end of the lease costly. Mr R explained that he had plans to deal with this. But, 
given Mr Rs recent missed payments and what he told its investigator about not making the 
repairs, Im satisfied it was reasonable for UKI to think this wasnt credible. 
Conclusion
I was satisfied that UKI had a number of reasonable concerns about the theft circumstances. 
Given the number and seriousness of these concerns, I was satisfied that it was more likely 
than not that the theft of the cars parts didnt take place as Mr R had described. And it 
followed that I was satisfied UKI reasonably declined Mr Rs claim in keeping with the 
policys terms and conditions. 
Subject to any further representations from Mr R and UKI, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to not uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr R provided detailed responses to the 
points listed above. He thought UKIs concerns were conjectures or misinterpretations of 
what he had told its investigator. Mr R said UKI hadnt sent him a copy of his statement of 
the interview with its investigator to check it for any inaccuracies. But I think Mr R has had 
ample opportunity to respond to UKIs concerns. 
As Ive said above, I need to try to establish what was more likely to have happened on the 
balance of probabilities, based on the available evidence.
Mr R provided screenshots to show the cars journeys on the days preceding the theft. But 
he hasnt explained why these hadnt been provided to UKI sooner to show that his car had 
been driveable. Mr R said the car couldnt have been stolen as it had been blocked in by a 
visitors car at the time. But in his statement he said hed parked his car on his driveway next 
to the visitors cars. So Im not persuaded that the car was blocked in. 
Mr R said the recovery agent had tested both keys and then taken them. He thought the 
keys may have been mixed with another key after the recovery. But I think its unlikely that 
the recovery and storage agents would have in their possession a key from a car stolen 
some years earlier in another part of the country. Mr R said he hadnt repaired his cars damaged door due to a lack of parts. This is different to his previous explanation that it was 
due to cost. 
So I am still satisfied that UKI has a number of reasonable concerns about the theft 
circumstances. Given the number and seriousness of these concerns, I am still satisfied that 
it is more likely than not that the theft of the cars parts didnt take place as Mr R has 
described. And it follows that I am satisfied UKI reasonably declined Mr Rs claim in keeping 
with the policys terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman