DRN-3519704
The complaint
Mr K has complained PayrNet Limited hasnt refunded nearly £3,000 worth of transactions 
he didnt authorise.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr K noticed payments from his Cledara account that hed not made. These 
had gone to a cryptocurrency provider. Mr K contacted them, but they said they could do 
nothing to help. Mr K contacted Cledara. The chargeback process was started.
Cledara told Mr K the chargeback wouldnt be successful. They were going to hold him liable 
for the fraud as they believed hed not kept his account security details safe.
Mr K brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. During our investigations PayrNet  
on behalf of Cledara  were unable to provide any information about how the transactions 
were made and why Cledara believed Mr K was liable.
Our investigator thought that Mr K should be refunded in full. There was no evidence hed 
either authorised the transactions or acted in a grossly negligent manner.
PayrNet tried to provide further evidence but nothing made our investigator change her 
mind. Mr Ks complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Cledara  who Mr K has an account with  is an agent of PayrNet Limited who is the 
regulated entity for the purposes of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. I say this as PayrNet has been unable to provide the evidence Id expect in 
this type of case  specifically there is no information about how the disputed payments were 
made. Our rules allow me to take this into account when making my decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ks complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply. I 
will refer to these where they are relevant in Mr Ks case.
Our investigator suggested the transactions may not have been authenticated. Its certainly 
the case theres no evidence to show authentication. However, these transactions debited 
Mr Ks account and its been suggested  if not shown  that the card number and details 
were used. I think its more than likely authentication took place as the transactions debited 
Mr Ks account.
However, this isnt the key issue here. This is whether Mr K authorised the transactions.
I have seen nothing to show that Mr K authorised the four disputed transactions. He has 
explained  and there is no evidence to contradict this  that he has a virtual card for his 
Cledara account. He has also told us hes never been required to provide any further 
verification for any transactions he made which suggests any two-factor authentication 
offered by Cledara at the time of these transactions was limited.
PayrNet has provided no evidence about why Mr K would authorise or could have done so. 
Taking into account, Mr Ks consistent evidence on this aspect Im satisfied Mr K didnt make 
or authorise the payments in dispute.
Cledara accused Mr K of acting with gross negligence in looking after his account details. 
The PSRs require a business to provide evidence to back up this allegation. As Ive already 
confirmed, PayrNet has been unable to provide us any evidence. 
As this fraud only required the compromise of Mr Ks card details, I dont believe theres 
anything to show there was any gross negligence on Mr Ks behalf. In any case I would add 
this is a high bar to get over.
Putting things right
As I dont believe Mr K made or authorised the transactions, its right to ask PayrNet to 
refund him for the money he lost. I believe this amounts to £2,909.71. PayrNet must add 8% 
simple interest a year to compensate for the time Mr K has been without his money.
Mr K was told he had to keep his account with Cledara open to receive any refund. Mr K has 
told us hes had to pay account charges. Unfortunately, PayrNet hasnt been able to provide 
any evidence of exactly what and why Mr K was charged. Like our investigator, I believe any 
charges Mr K had to pay whilst his account remained open will need to be refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct PayrNet Limited to:
Refund £2,909.71 to Mr K;
Add 8% simple interest a year to this amount from 27 January 2021 to the date of 
settlement; and
Refund any account charges Mr K paid after this date.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn1
Ombudsman