DRN-4245643
Complaint
Mr R has complained about a loan Bamboo Limited (trading as Bamboo) provided to him.
He says that the loan was not affordable to him and so it was irresponsible for it to have 
been provided to him.
Background
Bamboo provided Mr R with a loan for £5,000.00 in September 2019. The total amount to be 
repaid of £8,765.18, which included interest, fees and charges of £3,765.28, was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of around £245. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr R and Bamboo had told us. And she thought that 
Bamboo hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Mr Rs complaint be upheld. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Rs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a bit more detail.
Bamboo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Bamboo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr R 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. The fact that there was a borrower didnt 
change or alter this.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Bamboo provided Mr R with a loan for £5,000.00 in September 2019. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 36 instalments of around £240. Bamboo says it agreed to Mr Rs application 
after he provided details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. 
It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and 
information on how much Mr R received into his bank account each month. And all of this 
information showed Mr R could to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr R has said the loan was unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr R and Bamboo have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Bamboo has provided a record of the results of its credit 
searches. Bamboos searches appear to show that Mr R didnt have any difficulties with 
credit. Mr Rs debt total at the time of the application was also reasonable in comparison to 
his declared income. Indeed the majority of his debt was made up of a hire-purchase 
agreement.  Mr R did have some cash-withdrawals on his credit card, but I dont think that 
this was particularly unusual given the credit was available.
Furthermore, Mr R representative is somehow suggesting that Mr R should get the benefit of 
his actual income and rent as opposed to his declared income and rent. But I dont think that 
verification was necessary here. Particularly as Mr R was in a stable financial position at the 
time of the application and his bank account appear to have been receiving the money 
concerned. I note that Mr R is suggesting the loan was taken for the purpose of paying a 
wedding deposit at a time that he appears to have been to have stopped working as he is 
self-employed. 
I accept that Mr R may have gone on to experience difficulty making the payments. Ive also 
seen that Mr Rs representative says that this position ended up deteriorating after this loan 
was provided too. But given obtaining bank statements wasnt the only way further checks 
into Mr Rs circumstances could have been carried out, Im not persuaded that further 
checks would necessarily have highlighted the reason why Mr R says he might not have 
been able to make the repayments on this loan. 
Equally, despite having given a period of time to provide this, Mr R hasnt provided the 
copies of his bank statement either, so it is not as if I can take .I accept that Mr Rs actual 
circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the 
information Bamboo obtained. But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies compared to the 
credit searches and the money going into Mr Rs account, Im satisfied that Bamboo was 
reasonably entitled to lend to Mr R. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Bamboo did anything wrong when deciding to lend to  
Mr R - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. So Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr R. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman