DRN-3341643
The complaint
Mr C complains Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans didnt complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks before approving him for two loans.
What happened
Mr C was approved for two loans with Likely Loans in October 2016 and July 2018. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he felt Likely Loans had made fair decisions 
to lend. 
As Mr C didnt agree the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision recently where I set out, with reasons, why I thought Likely 
Loans didnt make a fair lending decision when approving loan two.
The following is an extract from that provisional decision.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.   
Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think that there are a number of overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Cs complaint. 
These are:
1. Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr C to satisfy itself 
he was in a position to afford to repay each loan sustainably?
If so, did it make a fair decision?
If not, would those checks have shown Mr C would have been able to do so?
2. Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Likely Loans ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Cs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further loans?
3. Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive gone on to consider each of these questions in turn.
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr C to satisfy itself he 
was in a position to afford to repay the loans sustainably? 
Likely Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mr C. The 
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Likely Loans lent required it to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Cs ability to 
afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Likely Loans to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without having to borrow further.
Ive taken all of this into account when thinking about each loan.
Loan one
Likely Loans has said it obtained details of Mr Cs income, which he declared as around 
£32,000 per year, as well as completing a credit file check before approving this loan. It has 
said it entered information from the credit check into its internal credit scoring model and the 
result met its minimum approval threshold.  
This was Mr Cs first loan with Likely Loans and was for a relatively modest amount with 
relatively modest monthly repayments  so the proportionality of the checks shouldve 
reflected this. Mr C declared his income and Likely Loans obtained details of his credit 
commitments from its credit file check. Based on the information it obtained it identified Mr C 
had a low outstanding debt of £200. 
I therefore consider there wasnt anything from the information Mr C provided, and Likely 
Loans obtained, that ought to have caused it concern or suggested it needed to complete 
further checks. 
Therefore, I consider Likely Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks in this 
instance.
Loan two
Likely Loans says it completed similar checks before approving Mr C for loan two. It obtained 
details of his income and completed a credit file check. It says it ran this information through 
its internal credit scoring model and the result met its minimum approval threshold. Likely 
Loans says it completed proportionate checks.
Ive carefully considered Likely Loans argument here, but I dont consider it did complete 
proportionate checks in this instance. I say this because Mr C was returning to Likely Loans 
within a two-year period for further finance. So, Likely Loans had a history with Mr C and 
was able to identify changes in Mr Cs financial circumstances between the two applications. 
The credit check Likely Loans completed shows Mr Cs total number of active credit 
accounts had increased, as well as his total indebtedness. From the details it has provided, 
its also evident some of the scores within the credit check had increased negatively, 
specifically the score relating to Mr Cs likelihood of being able to meet repayments to 
borrowing. And bearing in mind this loan was a top-up of loan one, so Mr C was further 
increasing his indebtedness, I think at this point Likely Loans needed to understand Mr Cs 
full financial circumstances, not just his income and credit commitments. 
I consider Likely Loans ought to have verified Mr Cs income and outgoings to ensure the 
repayments to loan two were sustainably affordable to him over the full term of the loan.Where Likely Loans completed proportionate checks; did it make a fair decision to lend?
Loan one
Based on the information Ive been presented with; Im satisfied Likely Loans made a fair 
decision to lend loan one. I say this because the checks it completed demonstrated Mr C 
didnt have significant negative markers, or a large outstanding credit balance. These checks 
which Likely Loans completed demonstrated, on balance, that Mr C would have sufficient 
income to meet his outgoings and the monthly repayment. As such, Im satisfied Likely 
Loans made a fair decision to lend at loan one.
Where Likely Loans didnt complete proportionate checks; would further checks have shown 
Mr C would have been able to meet the repayments sustainably?
Loan two
As I dont consider Likely Loan completed reasonable and proportionate checks when 
approving loan two, Ive gone on to consider what further checks would have shown.
Likely Loans could have done this in a number of ways. Mr C has provided us with his bank 
statements covering a period of a month and a half before loan two was approved. 
As I consider Likely Loans ought to have verified details of Mr Cs income and outgoings, 
Ive reviewed the statements hes provided to determine these. However, because of the 
short period the bank statements cover Im only able to see a small snapshot of Mr Cs 
financial circumstances before the lending. 
Mr Cs income is made up of his salary of around £1,900 per month and weekly credits of 
£125 which have the reference rent. Across June 2018 he makes payments to credit 
providers totalling just over £1,200. Within this figure is a payment to a debt collector, which 
would have put Likely Loans on notice that Mr C had problems in the recent or historic past 
managing his money. Theres a number of cash withdrawals across the month totalling over 
£750. But on a strictly pounds and pence basis the loan repayments of around £75 look 
affordable.
I note in Mr Cs response to our investigators assessment he made reference to his financial 
circumstances in the months following loan two being approved. But my review here 
considers the information Likely Loans would have had available to it at the point it approved 
the lending  not after. So, for this reason Ive not considered Mr Cs bank statements after 
loan two was approved. 
So, having reviewed Mr Cs bank statements covering the period up to loan two, Im unable 
to conclude this loan was unaffordable to Mr C on a strictly pounds and pence basis. 
However, I think there are other reasons Likely Loans didnt make a fair lending decision 
when approving loan two; and Ive gone on to explain why below.
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Likely Loans ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Cs indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further 
loans?
Loan one
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Likely Loans ought reasonably to have realised it was 
increasing Mr Cs indebtedness in an unsustainable or otherwise harmful way. Loan two
Likely Loans has provided our service with extracted data from the credit check it completed 
before approving loan two  it says it doesnt retain full details of the credit checks it 
completes. This data shows the number of Mr Cs active credit accounts and his total level of 
borrowing had increased since its check at loan one, as well as other information about Mr 
Cs financial circumstances. 
Mr C provided Likely Loans with a copy of his credit report when it investigated his complaint 
in 2020. Likely Loans also completed its own credit check at this point too. It said, within its 
final response in October 2020, that the information within these files was in line with its own 
credit file investigation at the time of the lending. So, Likely Loans has confirmed it was 
aware of the CCJ and two defaulted mail order accounts on Mr Cs credit file at the time it 
approved loan two. It hasnt provided any further details about these as part of its checks, 
except to say these details alone werent enough to suggest it shouldnt have lent to Mr C. 
Ive carefully considered Likely Loans argument here; but Im not persuaded by it. I say this 
because Im not satisfied Mr Cs credit file demonstrates that further lending would likely be 
sustainable to him. The CCJ and defaults were all registered within a year of Mr C returning 
to Likely Loans for further finance. And while I acknowledge the increase in borrowing and 
monthly repayments towards loan two could be considered modest; Likely Loans was aware 
Mr C wasnt able to maintain any level of payment towards two mail order accounts, which 
would likely have had a minimum payment level no higher than 5% of the outstanding 
balance at the time. 
The CCJ registered in June 2017 was around £940; and the two defaulted mail order 
accounts in March and April 2018 were registered as around £390 and £1,300. This 
indicated to Likely Loans that Mr C wasnt managing his finances well in the present and 
very recent past. 
Likely Loans has said it calculated the repayments to loan two to be affordable to Mr C. 
However, it hasnt provided any calculations to support its conclusion  only that the 
information it put into its internal credit scoring model suggested the loan to be affordable. 
But I would suggest the evidence Likely Loans obtained as part of its credit file check didnt 
support its conclusion. Although the repayments towards loan two were relatively modest at 
around £75 per month, I question how sustainable this really was for Mr C. I say this 
because Mr C hadnt been able to maintain minimum payments towards the two mail order 
accounts, so I question how he would have sustainably maintained payments to this further 
borrowing. I think it was highly likely, and evident to Likely Loans, that Mr C wouldnt be able 
to sustainably meet his repayments without needing to take further credit to maintain his 
exiting commitments. And this is supported as it appears Mr C wasnt able to maintain his 
repayments towards loan two within a couple of months of it being approved. 
I consider Likely Loans had enough information from the outset to suggest Mr C wasnt 
managing his finances well and further lending was likely to be unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful to him. So, Im satisfied Likely Loans didnt make a fair lending decision when 
approving Mr C for loan two.
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not seen any information which suggests Likely Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
any other way in relation to Mr Cs complaint.
Both Mr C and Likely Loans responded and accepted my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties are in agreement with my provisional findings and have 
presented no further comments or evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. 
It therefore follows I dont consider Likely Loans made a fair lending decision when 
approving loan two. This is for the reasons outlined in my provisional findings but in 
summary:
The evidence Likely Loans obtained at the point it approved loan two suggested Mr C 
wasnt managing his finances well  and that his financial situation had deteriorated 
between loan one and loan two being approved;
Mr C had defaulted on two credit accounts and had a CCJ registered against him 
within a year of loan two being approved;
Im therefore satisfied Likely Loans ought to have been aware that by approving loan 
two it was increasing Mr Cs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful to him.
Putting things right
To settle Mr Cs complaint Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans should do the 
following:
Add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given 
loan two. The repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount; as well 
as any charges or fees associated with this loan.
a) If this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Oakbrook Finance Limited 
trading as Likely Loans should attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment 
plan with Mr C.
After all adjustments have been made and once there is no outstanding balance, 
Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans need to remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Cs credit file regarding loan two.
I note the outstanding debt was sold to Cabot in September 2019. So, Oakbrook Finance 
Limited trading as Likely Loans need to take action to ensure the complaint is settled as 
detailed above.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans to 
take off tax from this interest. Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my recent provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Cs 
complaint and direct Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans to put things right as 
detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman