DRN-3058054
The complaint
 Mr M has complained that Nationwide Building Societys decision to provide him with 
overdraft facilities, a credit card and a number of loans when he was gambling excessively, 
was irresponsible.
Background
 Mr M opened a current account with Nationwide in 2008. Between 2012 and 2017 
Nationwide agreed to provide Mr M with a number of different forms of credit, including two 
overdrafts, a credit card and six loans. He has said that throughout this time he was 
gambling excessively and that the funds from the credit provided were used almost entirely 
to support his gambling addiction. Mr M believes that if Nationwide had taken a closer look at 
his accounts and how he was managing them, it wouldve been apparent that he had a 
serious gambling problem and that providing him with credit was irresponsible and likely to 
result in him getting into a worse financial position. 
Nationwide has said that at the time the lending decisions were made it carried out the 
necessary checks to ensure that the lending was affordable. It was satisfied that it was. It 
said Mr M didnt tell it about his gambling addiction and it cant be held responsible for how 
customers choose to spend the funds provided.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint already. She found that the checks 
performed by Nationwide were insufficient and that there was clear evidence that Mr M was 
gambling heavily, relying on multiple forms of credit, both from Nationwide and other lenders, 
to maintain his addiction. She believed that Nationwide was aware of Mr Ms problem from 
as early as 2012 and failed to provide him with adequate support. She found the lending 
decisions made by Nationwide were not only irresponsible but so harmful to Mr M that it was 
appropriate for Nationwide to not only refund all of the interest and charges associated with 
all the forms of credit it provided but also to refund 25% of the capital on four of the six loans 
given to Mr M during this time. She also asked that his credit file be amended to remove any 
adverse information linked to the overdraft, credit card and loans. 
Nationwide accepted that, in this instance, it couldve done more to support Mr M. While it 
still maintained that appropriate checks as set out by the regulator, were carried out at the 
time the lending was agreed, it conceded that in Mr Ms case, there were missed 
opportunities to provide support and help prevent Mr Ms financial situation becoming as 
difficult as it did. It agreed to the redress set out by the investigator. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings as he felt that Nationwide should refund 100% 
of the capital on the loans. He argues he had no benefit of these funds and that Nationwides 
decisions to continue lending to him at the height of his addiction resulted in his debt 
increasing and his overall financial problems worsening. He feels its unfair that Nationwide 
would be able to benefit from something it shouldnt have done. 
Because Mr M disagreed with the redress proposed by the investigator he asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint again and so the case has been passed to me for 
consideration. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The initial opinion provided by the investigator was extremely detailed and went through 
each lending decision in depth. As those elements of Mr Ms complaint are no longer being 
contested, I dont intend on repeating them in the same detail here. Instead I will focus on 
those elements of the complaint which are still in dispute; namely the redress proposed by 
the investigator. 
Before I address that its important to clarify that some parts of Mr Ms complaint fell outside 
of our jurisdiction, and so werent considered by the investigator. She explained she was 
unable to consider Nationwides decision to open a credit card for Mr M in 2012 due to the 
length of time that has passed. Therefore this decision will only consider the lending 
decisions that took place from May 2015 onwards.
Nationwide has accepted that it failed to support Mr M as well as it couldve. And that in this 
specific case, some of the lending decisions it made increased the overall harm Mr M 
experienced while he was actively gambling. Mr M has told us he hasnt gambled since 2019 
and is being properly supported in his recovery; Im pleased to hear he is doing well now. 
I will address the redress proposed by the investigator under each of the various forms of 
credit provided by Nationwide below.
Overdraft facilities and increases: 
Mr M was given two overdraft facilities on two different accounts he held with Nationwide. In 
May 2015 the limit on one of these was increased from £250 to £1,000. In November the 
second facility of £2,000 was added. In March 2017 the first overdraft limit was increased 
from £1,000 to £3,000. Our investigator recommended that Nationwide refund all the interest 
and charges associated with both overdraft facilities, and subsequent increases, from 23 
May 2013 onwards. 
I agree with this proposal and dont think Nationwide needs to do more than that in relation 
to the overdraft lending. Mr M has expressed a concern that Nationwide is benefitting from 
his gambling addiction, but by refunding the interest and charges associated with these 
lending decisions there will be no profit or benefit to the business. 
I understand Mr M has said the funds provided were all used for gambling but its likely his 
overdraft was used to pay for both gambling and other types of transactions. So, it wouldnt 
be reasonable for me to ask Nationwide to refund all of the funds provided via the overdraft 
as Mr M will have used these for multiple purposes. 
Therefore, I think the suggested redress in regard to the overdraft facilities is enough and I 
wont be asking Nationwide to do any more than what has already been set out by the 
investigator. 
Credit card limit increase October 2018:
Nationwide increased Mr Ms credit card limit from £1,800 to £3,600 in October 2018. Our 
investigator felt that at that time there was sufficient evidence on Mr Ms credit file to show 
that he was struggling to control his finances and already owed over £26,000 in just credit 
card debt to five other lenders by that time. She said the bank should rework Mr Ms credit 
card so that all the interest charged on capital over the original £1,800 limit (which Mr M was maintaining at the time of the increase) and charges on the credit card are removed from the 
date the limit was increased in October 2018. 
I agree with this proposal and dont think Nationwide need to do anymore than what has 
already been suggested by the investigator in relation to limit increase on Mr Ms credit card. 
Again, by refunding the interest and charges in this way, there is no residual benefit or profit 
for the business in relation to the lending decision it made at this time. And Mr M did utilise 
the funds from his credit card for more than just gambling, so it would be unreasonable to 
ask the business to refund these in full. 
Loans one and two:
In regard to the first two loans provided to Mr M during this time, neither Nationwide nor     
Mr M have able to confirm the purpose of the first loan from 2013. Our investigator felt that 
as it was unclear what the funds were for so she couldnt be sure Mr M didnt benefit from 
them. She noted at the time he had other forms of credit elsewhere including a high cost 
credit loan and thought it was possible at least some of the funds were used to consolidate 
that debt at a cheaper rate. 
However, she did believe that Nationwide were ultimately wrong in its decision to provide the 
loan to Mr M, even if it did benefit him by allowing him to clear more expensive debt he held 
elsewhere. She also said it was clear from Nationwides own notes Mr M was struggling 
financially at this time and it had decided to remove his over draft facility and there was 
evidence of high cost loans being paid from his account. 
For those reasons, she found that the lending decision was irresponsible and requested 
Nationwide refund all the interest and charges associated with the loan. I agree with this 
proposal. While I sympathise with Mr M and appreciate from his point of view all the credit he 
received at this time was ultimately used to fund his gambling addiction, I cant say there 
was no benefit to this loan as it likely helped him consolidate more expensive debt he held 
elsewhere. Therefore, I think its enough to ask Nationwide to refund the interest and 
charges linked to the loan taken in June 2013.
The second loan Mr M applied for was in March 2015 was for a car, which Mr M has 
confirmed he did purchase. However, looking at his wider financial circumstances by that 
time, Mr M had started transferring cash from his business account to his personal account 
to try to mask his gambling problem. In addition to this, he also owed more than £7,000 in 
credit card debt, while only making the minimum monthly repayments to these cards. 
Therefore, our investigator felt that even though Mr M did purchase a car, Nationwide 
shouldve been concerned that he wouldnt be able to repay the loan. She felt it was clear he 
was struggling to manage the debt he already had, and his gambling spending was beyond 
his control by this time. Therefore, she felt Nationwides decision to provide additional 
lending at this time was irresponsible. 
Again, I agree with the investigators findings in relation to loan two. Looking at the 
information that was available to Nationwide at this time, both through the accounts Mr M 
held with it directly, and the information on his credit file, it was clear that he was at risk of 
not being able to repay the loan. 
The proposed redress on this loan is that Nationwide should refund all interest and charges, 
treating all payments as repaying the capital. I agree with that proposal and wont be asking 
Nationwide to refund any of the capital paid. This is because Mr M did buy a car with the 
loan and so did benefit from it. Loans three to six: 
In November 2015, around the same time as he had applied for the second overdraft facility, 
Nationwide agreed to provide Mr M with a loan for £15,000. The purpose of the loan was for 
debt consolidation. Having reviewed Mr Ms credit file from the time it is apparent he had 
multiple forms of credit both with Nationwide and elsewhere and its likely at least some of 
these funds were used to manage those debts. 
Mr M has said that at the time of receiving these funds he did use approximately £10,000 to 
repay loans he had been taking from his company accounts to fund his gambling addiction. 
Our investigator found that if Nationwide had reviewed Mr Ms accounts at the time of this 
application it wouldve been apparent the impact his addiction was having and the severity of 
the problems it was causing him. For this reason, she recommended that the business not 
only refund the interest and charges it applied to the loan repayments but also 25% of the 
capital borrowed as well. 
Mr M has said the business should refund the entire capital amount because at this stage all 
of the credit he was receiving was being used exclusively to fund his gambling habit and as 
such he had no benefit from the funds whatsoever. 
While I appreciate why Mr M feels as strongly as he does about this point, I am unable to 
ask the business to refund the entire amount. By this stage Mr M was borrowing heavily from 
his business and was also receiving credit from other providers. Mr M has explained that the 
funds he was moving around between his personal and business accounts were essentially 
being used to mask the damage being caused by his addiction. However, the majority of this 
loan was used to repay the monies he had taken from his business account. I know this is 
akin to a robbing Peter to pay Paul scenario from Mr Ms point of view but the funds from 
this loan were beneficial insofar as they returned the money missing from his business. So it 
wouldnt be reasonable to ask Nationwide to refund the entire capital amount and I agree the 
25% capital refund suggested by the investigator is fair in the circumstances. 
The following March, just four months after receiving the £15,000 loan, Mr M applied for, and 
was granted, another loan for £10,000. Again, the purpose of this loan was stated as debt 
consolidation. Nationwide approved the loan, despite the fact that the previous loan had also 
been for debt consolidation. Only basic checks were carried out even though it was apparent 
at this time Mr Ms financial problems were spiralling.
It appears that approximately half the funds were used to clear existing debt, including the 
overdrafts that sat on his Nationwide accounts. Our investigator was unable to trace what 
the rest of the funds were used for, although it seems likely that the funds were gambled by 
Mr M. 
In regard to this loan, the redress set out by our investigator is that Nationwide refund all 
interest and charges and 25% of the capital. I agree this is a reasonable suggestion. As with 
the above loan, Mr M did use some of it to clear the existing debt and the rest was likely 
gambled. However, as with the loan above it would be untrue to say there was no benefit at 
all in regard to this credit. Mr M was able to reduce the overall cost of the debt he had 
incurred by this time and it would be unreasonable to expect Nationwide to refund the entire 
capital amount for that reason. 
The final two loans were provided to Mr M by Nationwide in March 2017 and January 2018. 
The first one was for £7,500 and the second for £18,250.
It is important to remember that at the same time Mr M was applying for these loans, 
Nationwide were simultaneously providing him with other forms of credit via his overdraft facilities and credit card. In addition, Mr M was borrowing from other credit providers as well. 
This made the decision to grant these two loans not only irresponsible but almost reckless 
on the part of Nationwide. 
Again, the declared purpose of the £7,500 loan in March 2017 and the £18,250 loan 10 
months later, was debt consolidation. This was an honest submission by Mr M as the 
proceeds of both loans were used to cover debt he was incurring due to his addiction. There 
is no doubt that had Nationwide carried out sufficient checks on his accounts, or indeed 
referred to the notes from its own previous internal audits of his accounts, both of these 
loans wouldve been refused on the basis that they werent sustainable. However, 
insufficient checks were run by Nationwide and so the loans were approved, and the funds 
released to Mr M. 
Looking at Mr Ms account statements from March 2017 I can see that the funds from the 
£7,500 were used to clear the overdraft balance (the limit of which was increased the same 
month) and debt from external credit cards. The rest was gambled away. 
The later, larger loan, in January 2018, was primarily used to clear other debt, including 
repaying loans back to his business and a substantial payment to HMRC. There were also 
some payments to some of his credit cards and the remaining funds were lost gambling. 
As with the previous redress recommended by our investigator, she suggested all interest 
and charges be refunded to Mr M as well as 25% of the capital of both loans. I think this is 
fair and Im not going to increase the amount of capital Nationwide has been asked to refund 
or write off. This is because, as with the other loans, Mr M did benefit from the funds insofar 
as they helped reduce the overall debt he had at the time. 
It is important to understand that Nationwide wasnt the only lender providing Mr M with 
credit at this time and so not all of his debt sat with it. I know Mr M believes that all of the 
debt was gambling related and each form of credit he was provided with, enabled him to 
increase the over all debt he was in. He has said that Nationwide was the main credit 
provider and the place where he held all of his accounts. Therefore he feels it owed him a 
higher duty of care than the other providers did. However, I have to acknowledge the part 
played by both parties in relation to this debt. And I cant fairly say the debt he amassed 
during this time was entirely the fault of Nationwide. 
So, having taken everything Mr M has told us into consideration, and with a clear 
understanding of the impact the lending decisions made by Nationwide had on him, I agree 
with the redress as set out by our investigator and Im not going to ask Nationwide to do any 
more than has already been recommended. 
I know Mr M will be disappointed by this, but I hope he understands why I have reached the 
outcome I have. 
Putting things right:
In order to put things right Nationwide Building Society must:
The overdraft limit increases:
Rework the account ending in 990 so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it
from 23 May 2013 (being six years prior to Mr Ms initial complaint) onwards
are removed
Rework the account ending in 1555 so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it
are removedRemove all adverse entries relating to the overdrafts from Mr Ms credit file
from 23 May 2013 onwards
The loans:
From what I can see loans one to five have been repaid in full while loan six remains 
outstanding. 
With this in mind, I recommend that Nationwide:
Regarding loans 1 and 2 by refund all interest and charges and treat all payments as 
repaying the capital
Regarding loan 3 by refund 25% of the capital, refund all interest and charges and 
treat all payments as repaying the capital
Regarding loan 4 by refund 25% of the capital, refund all interest and charges and 
treat all payments as repaying the capital
Regarding loan 5 by refund 25% of the capital, refund all interest and charges and 
treat all payments as repaying the capital
Rework loan 6 by writing off 25% of the capital, waive all interest and charges
and treat all payments as repaying the capital
If reworking the loans leaves capital outstanding, then Nationwide should work with
Mr M to agree a sustainable repayment plan, bearing in mind their obligation
to treat him positively and sympathetically
Remove all adverse information from Mr Ms credit file in relation to all loans
The credit card:
Rework the account so that all interest charged on capital over £1,800 and charges
on the credit card are removed from the date the limit was increased in October 2018
onwards
If reworking the account results in Mr M having overpaid on the amount
borrowed, Nationwide should refund this with 8% simple interest* calculated on the
overpayments from the date they were made till the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file in relation to the credit
Card
*If Nationwide Building Society considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman