DRN-3135686
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the delays caused by his motor insurance provider QIC Europe 
Ltd (QIC) when he made a claim under his policy. Mr E has also complained that he was not 
provided with a courtesy car while his car was being assessed.
Any reference to QIC in my decision will also include any of its agents.
What happened
Mr Es car had been damaged when he drove through flood water. The incident took place 
on 21 January 2021 and Mr E had his car recovered to a main dealer garage under a 
separate assistance policy he held.
On 25 January 2021 Mr E spoke to QIC to report the incident. He explained that his car had 
been recovered to the main dealer.
The main dealer provided an initial estimate for the repairs on 27 January 2021 but 
explained the car may need further repairs. As the estimate wasnt clear about the likely 
overall repair costs QIC decided to have an engineer look at the car. Mr Es car was then 
inspected by the QIC engineer on 4 February 2021.
On 10 February 2021 following the inspection QIC agreed to have Mr Es vehicle stripped 
down to determine the full extent of the damage.
Mr Es car was deemed a total loss several months later, on 12 May 2021. QIC 
acknowledged it had caused avoidable delays and offered Mr E £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience it had caused.
Mr E was unhappy with the offer made by QIC and said he had to make alternative travel 
arrangements at his own expense. Mr E thought QIC should have offered him a courtesy car 
while his car was being inspected and that the compensation offer it had made did not cover 
his costs.
Our Investigator considered Mr Es complaint and felt it should be upheld. She thought that, 
although Mr E wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under his policy that, because of the delays, 
QIC should have arranged a courtesy car for him. She thought Mr E had tried to mitigate the 
cost of his travel and that the amount he had spent was reasonable. Our Investigator 
therefore thought QIC should cover Mr Es travel expenses in addition to the £100 
compensation it had already offered.
QIC disagreed with our Investigator. It said there was no provision for a courtesy car under 
the policy when a car is considered a total loss, so it wouldnt have been able to provide one 
to Mr E. QIC also said Mr E had chosen to use his own repairer so wasnt entitled to a 
courtesy car in any event.
As QIC disagreed with our Investigators view this complaint has now been passed to me for 
a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at Mr Es motor insurance policy, and like most other motor insurance policies 
a courtesy car is only provided when a car is being repaired by one of QICs approved 
repairers. 
I have reviewed the call between Mr E and QIC when he first reported the claim. Mr E 
explained that his car had been taken to the main dealer by the recovery agent following the 
incident. Later in the call QIC explain the process of having the car recovered to one of its 
garages. It is agreed between Mr E and QIC that as the car was already at the main dealer it 
would be more convenient for it to stay where it was. 
QIC explained that if the car was repaired at the main dealer Mr E wouldnt be entitled to a 
courtesy car. Mr E explained he didnt mind who repaired the car.
Its clear from this call that the only reason Mr Es car was at the main dealer was because 
that was where it was recovered to following the incident. It was not Mr Es intention or 
preference to use the main dealer for repairs.
Either way, our Investigator thought Mr E should have been provided with a car as QIC had 
caused delays, not because he was entitled to a courtesy car under the policy.
QIC has accepted it caused avoidable delays. QIC inspected Mr Es car on 4 February 2021 
but didnt declare the car a write off until May 2021. I think this delay is unacceptable and 
because of the delays caused by QIC Mr E was unable to replace his car until a decision 
was made. Mr E should reasonably have expected a decision to be made much sooner than 
it was.
Mr E has told us that as he was without a car, he arranged to be insured on a family 
members vehicle at a cost of £484.04 for the year which works out to be a cost of £1.33 per 
day. I think Mr E took reasonable cost-effective steps to keep himself mobile during the 
delay caused by QIC.
As QIC caused a delay settling Mr Es claim I think it would have been reasonable for it to 
have arranged a courtesy car for him outside of the terms of the policy, or to arrange other 
alternative travel assistance. The delays were avoidable and QIC should have stepped in to 
limit the impact of the delays on Mr E. 
Putting things right
In addition to the £100 QIC offered Mr E. QIC Europe Ltd should cover the cost of the 
insurance Mr E arranged from 4 February 2021 when the inspection was carried out to the 
date it deemed his car a total loss. It should also add 8% simple interest to this amount from 
the date it was paid by Mr E to the date it makes payment to him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman