DRN-3586729
The complaint
Mr H complains that Equifax Limited have incorrectly recorded searches. And that this has
had an adverse effect on his credit file.
What happened
Mr H said he saw his credit score had dropped from around 500 to around 400, and that
there were several hard searches incorrectly showing on his credit file. Mr H said having
more than three searches would have a negative impact and he could see there were five
searches showing. He said hed made two orders with the information provider; one had
been cancelled and another had been made in February 2021. Mr H said he was told by the
information provider that the second order wouldnt generate a search as it was made within
12 months. And that the searches had been removed. But Mr H said they were still showing
on his credit file. He complained to Equifax.
Equifax said they werent the owner of the data; they were reliant on the business that
provided the information. But they could look to dispute the information they were given for
Mr H. Equifax said theyd disputed the information with the business, and it had been
confirmed the information was correct and should remain. Theyd also disputed a later
search recorded in February 2021 and after it was shown that one of the searches was a
duplicate, theyd removed it.
Mr H wasnt happy with their response, he said he was being passed between Equifax and
the information provider. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Equifax had recorded the information theyd received. And had
disputed the information when it was challenged by Mr H. He didnt ask them to do anything
further.
Mr H didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman to
decide.
I issued a provisional decision in 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Credit reference agencies (CRA) such as Equifax dont provide but store the information, its
lenders and other account providers that tell them what to record. But it's important that
credit files are an accurate record of a financial history. This is because other lenders or
account providers may rely on that information when making credit decisions. If something is
wrong on the credit file its not for the CRA such as Equifax to amend the credit information
its for the lender or account provider who gave the information to correct.
I think its worth noting the information displayed on a credit file is not in real time 
its usually, but not always updated monthly. This means the information reflected can
sometimes be out of date  but that doesnt mean Equifax has done something wrong, as its
the responsibility of the lender or account provider that owns the information to make sure it
is updated regularly.
While Equifax doesnt own the information, and so doesnt have the power to edit it. They
can, and should, raise a dispute to the information owners, if the subject of the data  in this
case Mr H raises a dispute about the information held.
And Mr H did raise a dispute in January 2021 saying he wanted to remove the searches
recorded for 28 November 2020 and 11 December 2020, he said only one of these searches
should have been noted. And later for two searches showing for 22 February 2021. Equifax
has shown us that they raised three disputes for Mr H, *9793, *9812 and *0103 for these
searches with the information provider.
In January 2021, Equifax records show they immediately raised the disputes for the
searches done in November and December 2020 under the references *9793, and *9812. I
can see Equifax informed Mr H of the timeframe for a response to his disputes. And that
while his dispute was being investigated, theyd add a note to his credit report so that any
organisations looking at it were aware that the information was under dispute.
The information provider responded to both disputes the same day to Equifax. They said that
theyd received two different applications on two different dates, 28 November 2020 and 11
December 2020 with Mr Hs details, and that the information recorded was correct and
should remain. Equifax updated Mr H and advised him to contact the information provider if
he disputed what theyd said. So, I cant say Equifax did anything wrong.
I can see in March 2021 Mr H again contacted Equifax about duplicate searches but not just
about the previous dates, he also disputed a credit search dated 22 February 2021. Equifax
has shown they set up complaint cases, reference *1780 and *6576 to look into Mr Hs
concerns. But I cant see that they raised a dispute about the search dated 22 February
2021 at this time. In their responses to Mr H they refer to the previous disputed searches
outlined above.
It wasnt until June 2021 that Equifax disputed the credit search 22 February 2021 with the
information provider under reference *0103. The information provider confirmed that there
was a duplicate search made for this date and gave authority to Equifax to remove it. The
other search on the same day was for an active account and the information provider said
this should remain.
While Im satisfied that Equifax has reported information which has been provided by the
business for 28 November 2020 and 11 December 2020, and that the information provider
had confirmed the accuracy of the information, so Equifax couldnt remove it. I dont think
Equifax acted fairly and reasonably with Mr H when he questioned the credit searches made
in February 2021. They didnt raise a dispute in March 2021 when they should have done.
And it wasnt until June 2021 after Mr H again disputed the information held that Equifax
raised the dispute and was given authority to remove one of the searches.
I think Equifax by not seeking correction for Mr Hs credit file in March 2021 caused him
additional trouble and upset for several more months. I can understand the frustration Mr H
must have felt in trying to get the right action taken. So, for this I intend to ask Equifax to pay
Mr H £75.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party asked for any further representations to be considered.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Equifax Limited to pay Mr H £75 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman