DRN-1341552
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy in 2003 at the same time as they applied for a secured 
loan in one of the banks branches. The PPI was in Mr Cs sole name and it gave him 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say at no point was it clear to them that the policy was optional. I cant know 
what was said in the meeting but Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs C told us and 
looked at the paperwork from the sale. On Mr and Mrs Cs loan agreement it gave the 
options to select or to decline PPI side-by-side, and Mr and Mrs C indicated that they wanted 
it. The cost of the PPI was also set out separately on the agreement. The bank cant provide 
Mr and Mrs Cs loan application form but Ive seen a sample of the document that they are 
most likely to have completed. This would also have given Mr C the option to sign a separate 
section to say Yes he wanted to apply for PPI, or No. 
So, overall, I think Halifax made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs C chose to 
take it out for Mr C.
Halifax recommended the PPI for Mr C to Mr and Mrs C. And it seems to have been right for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr C told us he was entitled to 
six months sick pay. But this doesnt change my conclusion as the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to any work benefits and for much longer  for up to 60 months for accident and 
sickness claims and up to 12 months for unemployment claims. He also said he had life and 
critical illness cover and private healthcare. But these all provide protection against different 
events and wouldnt help cover Mr and Mrs Cs monthly loan repayments in the same way 
as PPI. So I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs C if Mr C was sick or lost his 
job.Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs C all the information they needed before deciding 
to buy PPI. The cost was clear on the loan agreement. But I dont know if the bank pointed 
out the main things the policy didnt cover. However Mr C doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions. So I dont think better information about the policy 
wouldve changed their mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs C have lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman