DRN-2547260
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy about the way Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) has dealt with his permanent 
health insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr T took a permanent health insurance policy out in 1995 which would provide a monthly 
benefit in the event of ill health. In 1999, Mr made a claim for benefits which Phoenix 
accepted.
Over time, Phoenix wrote to Mr T to tell him that some of its calculations had been wrong 
and it had made some overpayments and some underpayments. 
In 2018, Mr T asked Phoenix for information relating to the policy and its terms and 
conditions as he didnt think Phoenix had calculated his payments correctly, especially in 
relation to the Retail Price Index (RPI) increases and the initial benefit sum used.
Mr T raised a number of complaints which he referred to this Service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaints and found that although Phoenix had made some errors, it had 
adequately compensated Mr T and had provided the correct calculations so nothing further 
needed to be done. 
Mr T disagreed and in summary he said:
The initial figure and sum assured was incorrect and he thinks Phoenix has 
incorrectly calculated RPI increases since 1999.
The terms and conditions dont show how the benefit is calculated.
Phoenix didnt deal with his complaint properly or follow its own complaints procedure 
which led to Mr T writing numerous unnecessary letters and emails.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say at the outset that I have fully considered everything Mr T has said and although 
he has asked for a detailed response to all of his points, I will summarise and address the 
point which I consider to be key.
I dont think Mr Ts complaint should be upheld and largely for the same reasons as outlined 
by our investigator. Ill explain. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly.  
Key evidence
The initial application form confirmed the income required was £6,656. Two other amounts 
are shown as £13,000 and £8,300 which are crossed out. Phoenix say this was due to a 
number of quotes being given. Mr T says this proves his initial benefit amount was £13,000 
and so this is the sum any benefit calculations should be based on. 
The terms and conditions define the benefit as:
the amount, specified in the Schedule, payable by the Company
The policy schedule confirms the benefit amount payable as follows:
£554.67 per month or such other amount as specified in the policy conditions 
attached.
The premiums were £10 per month.
The policy confirms: 
On each anniversary date the benefit immediately prior to that date shall be 
increasedin the same proportion as the increase of the Index of Retail Prices
Mr T says Phoenix has incorrectly calculated his benefits based on the initial sum used. So 
Ive looked at correspondence from the start of the policy including the application form and 
the annual renewal letters.
In 1997, Mr T received a letter which confirmed the benefits and premium he paid were due 
to escalate in line with the annual increase in the RPI which would result in a revised benefit 
of £6,979 and a revised premium of £10.39 per month.
Having considered the above evidence which followed the application form, Im not satisfied 
that £13,000 was the correct figure. This is because further correspondence following the 
application form, including the schedule and annual renewal letter confirmed the initial sum 
to be used was £6,656 with a premium of £10 per month. 
Phoenix has referred to the initial sum of £6,656 as the sum assured. It has explained this 
is a generic term used for the benefit amount. And this amount would increase each year 
using the RPI. 
Ive seen that Phoenix has sent Mr T a full breakdown from the start of the claim setting out 
how much the sum assured increased by, the RPI percentage increase and the maximum 
benefits payable. 
The policy confirms the maximum benefit payable was 75% of Mr Ts pre disability income 
which was £12,892. 75% of this was £9,669. This was Mr Ts maximum entitlement and not 
what he was due to receive. The sum assured at the time his claim started was £7,272 
which had been increased by the RPI each year since the starting point. This meant Mr T 
would receive the sum assured unless this was higher than the maximum entitlement 
following RPI increases  in which case, he would receive the maximum entitlement minus 
any deductions including any pensions or state benefits. 
In 2008, Phoenix revised its calculations based on Mr Ts gross annual pension income. It found that it had made some overpayments and some underpayments. And it provided a 
full copy of its calculations including dates, the maximum entitlement and what it should have 
paid from 1999 to 2008.
In 2018 and 2019 Mr T raised a number of questions about the way his benefit had been 
calculated and asked Phoenix to explain its terms and conditions. Phoenix replied and set 
out its calculations from 1999 to 2018 and included the RPI percentage increases, the 
amount of increase, the sum assured and any deductions.
Mr T sent further emails asking for clarification. Phoenix replied in June 2019 but the letter 
was incorrectly dated. Phoenix enclosed a copy of Mr Ts original application form and the 
policy schedule. It explained the sum assured was a generic industry term used for the 
benefit/amount specified in the policy schedule. And in the event of a claim, Phoenix would 
pay the lesser of either the sum assured, or the maximum entitlement based on pre disability 
income. 
Each year the sum assured increased by RPI. This amount was added to the maximum 
entitlement prior to deductions. Phoenix had double checked its calculations and reconciled 
this with Mr Ts April 2019 pension increase. It had noticed an error and set out its 
calculations. 
It had made overpayments of £28.32, £16.50, £28.11 and £72.93 and included a detailed 
calculation of how it had reached these figures. It confirmed it would waive the total 
overpayments and offered Mr T £100 compensation for any distress and upset. 
In January 2020, Phoenix wrote to Mr T again to confirm it had made an underpayment of 
£67.88 which it would pay into his account and set out its detailed calculations. 
Phoenix wrote to Mr T again in February 2020 and offered a further £100 compensation for 
its errors and because it hadnt provided him with the detailed information he had asked for 
sooner including the initial application form and the terms and conditions.
Mr T says Phoenix should pay more compensation and recalculate his benefits. Im satisfied 
the explanations and calculations Phoenix has provided are sufficient. Im also satisfied that 
the compensation amount is reasonable taking into account that Phoenix waived the 
overpayments it had made. And so it doesnt need to do anything further.  
Policy number
Mr T has asked why his policy number changed. Phoenix has explained that when it took the 
policy over, it was given a new policy number and has provided a screenshot to confirm this 
which has been shared with Mr T. Im satisfied this explanation is reasonable. 
Complaint handling
Mr T is also unhappy with the way Phoenix has dealt with his complaints and says it has 
delayed in responding to his complaints and hasnt followed its own complaints procedure. 
Complaints handling isnt a regulated activity and so I cant comment on this any further. 
I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed with my decision and I can understand why he has 
been frustrated with the errors made by Phoenix on a number of occasions. But I hope Ive 
explained why I dont think Phoenix needs to do anything more in relation to the above 
issues.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman