DRN-3163170
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined 
Mrs Bs claim on their life and critical illness policy, cancelled the policy from the start and 
refunded the premiums.
What happened
On 5 July 2018 Mr and Mrs B applied for a 20-year term decreasing joint life assurance 
policy with critical illness cover via an independent financial advisor (IFA). This policy was to 
replace an existing policy that they held with L&G. Their application was accepted and cover 
started on 1 August 2018. Mr and Mrs B then cancelled their previous policy.
Sadly, in December 2018 Mrs B contacted L&G to make a claim as shed been diagnosed 
with multiple sclerosis (MS).
To help its assessment of the claim L&G requested information from Mrs Bs treating 
consultant and her GP. This showed Mrs B had been experiencing symptoms of back pain 
and had a visual disturbance for a number of years. Shed then been for two MRI scans in 
the year prior to her application, in February 2018 and May 2018. And had been referred to a 
neurologist following the MRI results.
L&G felt this information ought to have disclosed when Mrs B applied for the policy. And so, 
it contacted Mr and Mrs B to understand why it hadnt been given this information. 
The following was noted by Mr B:
The reason for the second MRI was because of a smudge in the image, thought to 
be due to movement during the MRI, which had seemed reassuring.
They werent aware of the neurologist referral at the point the policy started.
Had Mrs B been aware shed have been very worried as she suffers from anxiety.
Mrs B didnt think she needed to declare the back pain as there was no diagnosed 
condition.
The smudge in Mrs Bs vision had been looked into by an eye doctor when it started 
over five years earlier and Mrs B was told not to worry about it.
Theyd have no reason to risk replacing their existing policy with one that was invalid.
After reviewing things, L&G decided Mrs B had misrepresented her circumstances by failing 
to share full details of her medical history in the application form. It said that the failure to 
inform it of ongoing medical investigations around the time of application meant this was a 
deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, as opposed to just careless. L&G also said it would 
never have offered Mrs B critical illness cover had it known about Mrs Bs ongoing 
investigations. It declined the claim, avoided the policy (cancelled the policy from the start) 
and refunded the premiums. It also asked Mr B if he wanted to continue with a policy in his 
sole name, but he declined.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy with the outcome and so they raised a complaint, but this 
wasnt upheld by L&G.
Unhappy with this decision, Mr and Mrs B then brought their concerns to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things and was of the view that L&G had acted reasonably.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed so the matter was passed to me to consider. Mr B stressed that 
hed completed the application on behalf of Mrs B and he didnt know about the scans as 
Mrs B didnt want to worry him. He felt that if L&G wasnt willing to pay on the new policy it 
should pay on the prior policy. And if this was refused, then he felt L&G should refund the 
premiums paid on the first policy.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach the same outcome as the 
investigator but for slightly different reasons. Given this, I shared my provisional findings with 
both parties, so they had the opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence 
before a final decision was reached.
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mrs Bs diagnosis and to read about the impact this has had on her 
life. I dont underestimate the effect that the decline of this claim has had on both her and 
Mr B.
Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also considered the industry 
guidance that was in place at the time L&G made its decision. This is called, 
Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims 
For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products 
April 2013. I will refer to this as the code.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If the 
consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions accurately, it sets out the 
remedies available to the insurer.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care, including if the questions asked at application were clear and specific. 
The code also says consideration should also be given as to whether the customer had the 
opportunity to check their answers and whether the warnings given were adequately 
prominent.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate/reckless or careless.
Where the misrepresentation is considered deliberate/reckless an insurer can avoid the 
policy and keep the premiums, providing the misrepresentation would have led to a different 
underwriting outcome. The code also notes that avoiding a policy should be confined to the 
most serious cases of misrepresentation.
Was there misrepresentation?
After Mr and Mrs Bs application was submitted, on 19 July 2018 L&G wrote to Mr and Mrs B 
individually via its online portal and via post asking them to check their details. They were 
provided with a copy of the questions and answers submitted as part of the application. 
They were asked to sign a form to confirm the information was correct or provide details of 
any amendments if not. Mr and Mrs B didnt respond and so L&G sent a reminder to them via the online portal in early August. When L&G still didnt receive a response, it sent Mr and 
Mrs B another letter, via post and the online portal, asking them to check their details and 
return the form. It again enclosed the application questions and answers.
Ive seen a copy of these letters. So whilst Im aware that at this time neither Mr or Mrs B 
had registered for the online portal, Im satisfied they were posted a copy of their 
applications on two occasions and that these letters were correctly addressed.
The one sent in July 2018 warned If any of your answers or any other statements made 
about your application are incorrect, incomplete, or out of date we can refuse any claim and 
cancel your policy or policies.
And the one posted in August 2018 clearly states details should be checked regardless of 
whether the policy has started. It warned that Mr and Mrs B should read the enclosed 
Personal Details Document carefully and check the answers youve given us.
Mr and Mrs B had access to their application, the questions asked and the submitted 
answers. So, I think they were given sufficient opportunity to check their answers and were 
warned by L&G about the importance of ensuring these were correct. And Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest they contacted L&G to change any of their application answers.
MRI scans and neurologist referral
Ive started by thinking about the main question L&G said Mrs B answered incorrectly which 
was:
Health  Last 12 months
Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, during the last 12 
months have you: been referred to or had any investigations in hospital, for example 
biopsy, scan, ECG?
Mrs B answered no.
I think the question asked by L&G is clear and specific. Its not in dispute that Mrs B had had 
two MRI scans and had been referred to a neurologist within the 12 months prior to the start 
of the policy. So, L&G thinks there was a misrepresentation by Mrs B.
Before I consider the explanations offered by Mrs B for her answers, Id like to clarify that 
Ive thought about the fact Mr B has been the person to speak to L&G and our service about 
the claim. So, the explanations given have come through Mr B. That being said, Mrs B is 
entitled to allow Mr B to act as the point of contact. Ultimately, Im satisfied Mrs B is aware of 
the claim and the complaint and so the explanations for the omissions provided by Mr B can 
be fairly accepted as those of Mrs B.
I note Mr B has told our service he wasnt aware of the scans or the neurologist referral, and 
that he completed the application on behalf of Mrs B. But having listened to an earlier call 
between L&G and Mr B, I would note this is a different explanation from the one he gave 
L&G during a call looking into the claim. At this time, he said he did know about the MRI 
scans and was told by Mrs B when she was referred for the second one. So, Im not 
persuaded by this explanation for the omission. That being said, even if I were to accept 
there may have been confusion given Mr B was completing the application for Mrs B, this 
doesnt change the fact Mrs B had a responsibility to ensure the answers were correct. 
And where a consumer is aware that someone has submitted a life assurance application on 
their behalf, I think taking reasonable care places an even greater onus on that individual to 
double check their answers to make sure they are accurate. So, I dont think that any lack of 
knowledge Mr B may or may not have had about the full circumstances of Mrs Bs tests 
means it is in anyway unfair for L&G to suggest theres been a misrepresentation here.Mr B has also told our service that neither he nor Mrs B were told about the neurologist 
referral. However, a letter dated 27 July 2018, indicates Mrs B was told about the neurologist 
referral by her physiotherapy specialist. And Im more persuaded by the contemporaneous 
evidence here, particularly given the inconsistency in the other explanation Mr B gave as 
outlined above.
I appreciate Mrs B was reassured by the smudge being potentially attributable to movement 
during the MRI. But the question doesnt ask whether there were any concerns following the 
scan. Simply whether she had been referred or had any investigations in hospital.
For these reasons, I do think Mrs B should have answered yes to this question and I think 
L&G was fair to conclude there was a misrepresentation here.
Vision smudge
L&G also considered whether there had been misrepresentations in relation to the following 
questions:
Health  Ever
Have you ever: had any neurological condition or visual disturbance, for example 
epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, cerebral palsy, motor neurone 
disease, Parkinsons disease, optic neuritis?
Health  Last 5 years continued
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for: any condition 
affecting your eyes or vision, not wholly corrected by spectacles, lenses or laser 
treatment, for example cataract, blindness?
Mrs B answered no to all of these questions.
A letter summarising Mrs Bs neurology appointment in December 2018 stated that over the 
past six years Mrs B had a constant smudge in the vision on her left eye, but that this was 
never formally diagnosed.
When asked about why L&G wasnt told about the eye smudge, Mr B explained Mrs B went 
to an eye doctor around the time it first appeared but wasnt diagnosed with anything and 
was told not to worry about it. So, it wasnt something they understood needed to be 
disclosed.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mrs B saw a doctor, nurse or other health professional 
within the five years prior to the start of the policy. So, Im not persuaded she needed to 
answer the second question any differently.
And having carefully considered it, I dont think she ought to have known to answer the 
second question differently either. Whilst I think a smudge is technically a visual disturbance, 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mrs B was ever told this, such that I think she ought to 
have known to declare this here. Ultimately, Im not satisfied Mrs B saw her smudge as a 
visual disturbance. And Id note its also referred to as a mist in her medical notes. I also 
think the extensive list of examples given, which are all diagnosed conditions, leaves the 
reader with the impression diagnosed conditions are what L&G is seeking to know about 
here. Whilst I appreciate these are given as examples and are not meant as an exhaustive 
list, I dont think a reasonable consumer, reading this question, would necessarily think L&G 
wanted to know about undiagnosed problems. Particularly in Mrs Bs case where the 
undiagnosed problem had been looked into and shed been told not to worry about it, with no 
further investigation required. For all of these reasons, I dont think there was a 
misrepresentation here.Back pain and numbness
Other conditions that L&G considered misrepresentation in relation to, were the back pain 
and numbness it says Mrs B experienced prior to the policy starting.
The following questions are of relevance here:
Health  Last 5 years
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for: lupus, 
fibromyalgia, gout or any type of arthritis, neck, back, spine or joint trouble, for 
example rheumatoid arthritis, sciatica?
Health  Last 5 years continued
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for: paralysis, 
numbness, persistent tingling or pins and needles, tremor of facial pain other than 
dental pain?
Mrs B answered no to both of these questions.
The medical evidence Ive seen shows Mrs B had been referred to spinal triage as in 
September 2017 with back pain so severe she is unable to function. And in January 2018 
she was seen by a clinical physiotherapy specialist. A letter summarising the appointment 
shows shed had back pain for around five years and it had been getting worse. At the time 
of the appointment it was noted as impacting her sleep. The assessment summary also said 
she experienced shooting pains in her thighs and hip and more recently had noticed an area 
of numbness on her left thigh. As a result of this consultation, Mrs B was referred for the MRI 
and for physiotherapy.
Considering the first question, Mrs B has clearly seen a health professional for back trouble. 
But Mr B explained theyd read the question to be asking if Mrs B had ever been diagnosed 
with anything. Whilst I can see this question also includes a lot of examples of diagnosed 
questions, these are in a list alongside neck, back, spine or joint trouble which are broader 
categories  they are not given as examples of back trouble. So, I think the way the question 
is constructed is clearer here and I think that L&G was specific about what it wanted to know. 
I think a reasonable consumer, reading this question, would understand that they should 
declare back trouble.
Mr B hasnt provided an explanation for the reference to numbness in Mrs Bs medical notes. 
But the evidence suggests she had discussed the numbness with a health professional as 
part of a referral within six months of completing the application. I can see that the reason for 
her appointment was largely due to back pain and so she may have considered the 
numbness a side effect of the back problem. As such, I can see why she might not 
reasonably have considered her appointment with the physiotherapy specialist as for 
numbness. But if this is the case, the appointment would have been for back pain  and this 
wasnt declared on the application either despite there being a clear and specific question 
about this.
For these reasons, I do think L&G can fairly say there was a misrepresentation here.
Is the misrepresentation qualifying?
An insurer must show the misrepresentation would have altered the terms it would have 
offered for it to be a qualifying misrepresentation. Had L&G known about the outstanding 
neurologist appointment and MRI scans, it says it would have postponed the application until 
the outcome of the investigations were known. And Mrs B was then diagnosed with MS  this would have needed to be declared to L&G. L&G has said it then wouldnt have offered 
Mrs B critical illness cover and would have offered her life cover at a much higher rating. 
Having reviewed the underwriting guidance in place at that time, Im satisfied this is what 
L&G would have done. Given that full disclosure would have significantly altered the terms 
L&G would have offered, Im satisfied this was a qualifying misrepresentation.
Was this a deliberate/reckless misrepresentation?
L&G has categorised this misrepresentation as deliberate/reckless. It noted that the second 
MRI scan was nine weeks prior to the application and so would be easy to recall. It felt there 
were a number of questions within the application where Mrs B could have told it about the 
ongoing appointments, which were all interlinked. Given this, it saw no reason for Mrs B not 
to have disclosed full details of her health.
A deliberate or reckless misrepresentation is one where, in the circumstances, on the 
balance of probabilities, the customer knew, or must have known, that the information given 
was both incorrect and relevant to the insurer, or the customer acted without any care as to 
whether it was either correct or relevant to the insurer.
In relation to medical information, the code states that deliberate/reckless is more likely to 
apply where misrepresented information concerns recent or ongoing treatment, specialist 
consultations and/or medical investigations about matters that a reasonable consumer would 
have understood to be important to their health. I cant help but note the scans and 
physiotherapy consultation were within around six months of the application and were 
ongoing with no result having been given. So, I agree with L&G that these ought to have 
been easily recalled.
L&G thinks theres no credible explanation for the misrepresentations having occurred.
For the reasons outlined above, Im not persuaded by the explanation that Mr B didnt know 
about the scans or that Mrs B didnt know about the neurologist referral  I think they did 
know. So, Ive considered the other main explanation Mrs B has given which is that she 
didnt believe there was any cause for concern following her scans. I have no reason to 
doubt her account here and Id note this is supported by a letter from her neurologist in 
December 2018 which states the neurology referral was considered routine. But L&Gs 
questions dont ask about the results or outcome of appointments, just if any referrals, 
appointments or investigations have happened. And whilst Mrs B may not have thought 
these tests were a particular cause for concern, I dont think it can be fairly said that she 
wouldnt have understood they were important to her health. I think a reasonable consumer 
would understand physiotherapy, MRI scans and a neurologist referral were relevant to their 
health, even if they didnt think the results would be problematic. Particularly where their 
back pain had been so bad, theyd been unable to function. So, it would seem to me that this 
doesnt really offer a credible explanation as to why all of the relevant questions were 
answered no.
That being said, Im not persuaded that this was a deliberate omission. The evidence does 
seem to support Mrs Bs account that she wasnt overly concerned by the investigations. 
I also think its relevant Mr and Mrs B had a pre-existing policy, so I think its less likely theyd 
knowingly jeopardise their cover. But I do think L&G can fairly conclude Mrs B acted without 
any care as to whether her answers were correct. I say this noting the lack of any 
disclosures in Mrs Bs application and the lack of a credible explanation for this. Ive also 
taken into account the number of omissions here for ongoing health appointments, alongside 
the failure to return the check your details form.Finally, whilst this hasnt been highlighted by L&G to Mr and Mrs B, I would also note Mrs B 
was asked the following question in her application and answered no:
Health  Last 5 years
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for: anxiety, 
depression or stress thats required treatment or counselling, or chronic fatigue 
syndrome?
And yet the medical evidence shows Mrs B was taking medication for her anxiety  this is 
evident in a letter from her physiotherapist in February 2018 and her neurologist letter from 
December 2018. I think a reasonable consumer would understand medication to be a form 
of treatment. And so I think this is further evidence that Mrs B didnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions on her application correctly. And I think the extent of her omissions can be 
fairly said to amount to reckless misrepresentation.
Whilst I appreciate this categorisation should be reserved for only the most serious cases, I 
think it can be fairly applied here. By declining the claim and avoiding the policy, L&G has 
taken the action it is entitled to under CIDRA regarding reckless misrepresentation. And I 
note it has chosen to refund the premiums, though this isnt something it has to do under 
CIDRA. So, Im not asking L&G to do anything further here, though I realise that will be a 
great disappointment to Mr and Mrs B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No further comments were made by either L&G or Mr and Mrs B following receipt of my 
provisional decision. Having carefully considered everything, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings.
My final decision
For all of the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman