DRN-3910821
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the way Nationwide Building Society dealt with his credit card 
account after it fell into arrears. He is also unhappy that Nationwide has refused to reactivate 
the card for use after he paid off a lump sum.
What happened
Mr As credit card account was in significant arrears and therefore discussions began about 
entering into a payment arrangement. In July 2020 it was agreed that Mr A could pay £30.74 
per month to the account for 12 months, with interest and charges being frozen and that a 
default wouldnt be registered as long as the plan was adhered to. In September 2021 the 
arrangement was extended for a further six months  so until March 2022.
As the account remained in arrears, Nationwide issued a default notice on 11 April 2022. 
This stated that the balance of the account was £10,078.38, with outstanding arrears of 
£7,388.70 that had to be paid by 2 May 2022 to avoid the account being defaulted. 
Mr A paid £7,400 into the account on 29 April 2022. He was already unhappy that the hed 
been unable to use the card during the period of the repayment arrangement. But he had an 
expectation that hed be able to use it again once the arrears had been paid off. However, 
Nationwide said that the account would only stay open as a repayment vehicle and that it 
would be closed once the balance had been paid off.
During the course of the complaint, Nationwide has accepted that it made certain 
administrative errors and provided some contradictory information. It has paid Mr A a total of 
£325 for these errors.
Our investigator thought that, although Nationwide didnt always handle things as well as it 
should have, the offer of £325 compensation was a reasonable response for the mistakes 
that occurred. Mr A disagrees with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says that the reduced repayment amount of £30.74 was suggested by Nationwide, not 
him, so why should he be penalized for being in persistent debt as a result of its suggestion. 
However, I can see that in June 2020 Mr A initially negotiated a repayment of £150 per 
month that he said his uncle was going to pay for him. Then in July 2020 he informed 
Nationwide that his uncles circumstances had changed and he could only afford £100 per 
month. It seems clear that Mr A didnt have a lot of leeway financially and any agreement 
would need to be based on what Mr A could realistically afford. The offer of a lower level of 
payment would have been partly to allow Mr A some breathing space to hopefully get his 
finances on a sounder footing. So I think it was fair and reasonable of Nationwide to offer a 
repayment plan of £30.74 in an attempt to assist Mr A.
The repayment plan was due to come to an end in March 2022. At the time that the 
arrangement was extended for an additional six months in September 2021, Mr A was told 
that there would be no further extension and that a default notice would be issued if he was 
unable to repay the balance owed.  
On 1 February 2022 Mr A spoke to an adviser who said that it could be extended for another 
six months. The adviser then rang Mr A back about 10 minutes later to explain that she 
shouldnt have made that offer and that a review of the account was required in March 2022. 
Mr A believes that Nationwide should have honoured the offer to reset the payment 
arrangement for a further six months. 
Mr A was previously aware that the payment arrangement had been extended for the last 
time. The adviser on 1 February 2022 made an error but I dont agree that Nationwide had a 
duty to honour what was said. It was a genuine mistake that was rectified very quickly. Mr A 
was under the impression for no more than 10 minutes that the arrangement had been 
extended. So I dont think he suffered much detriment for the mistake that occurred and 
Nationwide has appropriately compensated him for the inconvenience.
The purpose of the repayment arrangement was to give Mr A some breathing space and see 
if he could try and reduce his arrears. So I think it was fair for Nationwide to suspend the use 
of the account, as continued use of the card for purchases would only increase Mr As 
indebtedness. 
On 22 June 2020, when the repayment arrangement was first being set up, I can see that 
Nationwide told him that the block would stay on and that the credit card would be closed 
once the balance was paid off but that he might be eligible for another card in the future.
In June 2021 he was told that the account was permanently frozen and so would not be 
active again but that it would work with him to clear the balance at an affordable rate.
In a complaint response letter dated 15 July 2021 he was told that the account would remain 
restricted and repayment only  and that what he was told in June 2020 remained as its 
position. 
In a further complaint response letter dated 22 July 21 Mr A was advised that the decision to 
permanently restrict the card had been referred to its Head of Credit Card Team and its Risk 
Team who had advised the its decision remained. It was suggested that this might be 
reconsidered if the balance was significantly reduced, although the credit limit would have to 
be reduced as well.
In another complaint response dated 19 November 2021 Nationwide told Mr A that it had 
listened to the call hed had with the adviser on 22 June 2020 and could confirm that he was 
told the account would not be able to be used anymore and that the account would be 
closed once the balance was repaid. It was again mentioned that the Risk Team could 
review that decision if a lump sum was paid off the balance, together with reducing the credit 
limit.
I do note however that Mr A says he didnt receive the July and November 2021 letters until 
early March 2022.
When later discussing his complaint over the phone, Mr A was told by a complaint handler 
that, on clearance of the arrears the account would become active and the card would be 
available again. So there was some inconsistency there. It seems the complaint handler misunderstood what had previously been advised to Mr A 
and interpreted the fact that he was told that interest and charges would resume as meaning 
that the card would once again come back into use. Nationwide has apologised for 
misinforming Mr A and has provided some compensation for its error.
Mr A says his mother sold her car (resulting in great difficulties for her) and that he used his 
full overdraft facility in order to pay £7,400 off the balance, due to the assurance he was 
given about the account being reactivated and getting a new card. He says he would have 
reconsidered making the payment if hed known that it was Nationwides intention to close 
the account. 
But the main reason that Mr A paid off the arrears was to avoid the account being defaulted. 
As he works in finance, he was very worried that a default on his credit file would result in 
him losing his job. Nationwide had indicated that it would hold off from defaulting the account 
until the complaints process has been completed by this service but Mr A wasnt willing to 
take that risk. So, regardless of whether the account was going to be reactivated or not, its 
most likely that Mr A would have paid off the arrears at that point anyway to avoid the 
default.
Mr A says it wasnt reasonable of Nationwide to want payment of the arrears in such a short 
space of time. But Mr A would have been aware from June 2020 that the reduced payment 
arrangement wouldnt continue indefinitely. And in September 2021 he was told that he had 
a final six months before the account would be defaulted if not brought up to date. So it 
should not have come as a surprise to him to receive a default notice in April 2022.
Mr A made an offer to pay £3,500 immediately and then another £3,500 within three months, 
if Nationwide would withdraw the default notice. The length of time that Nationwide 
maintained the repayment arrangement was much longer than it would usually have agreed 
to. Overall, I think it was reasonable that Nationwide decided that it was not willing to enter 
into any further arrangements.
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in the way it dealt with the 
arrears on Mr As credit card account and that the payment of £325 compensation was a 
proportionate response to the errors that occurred.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman