DRN-3258984
The complaint
Mrs C complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined to repair the damage to 
her front bedroom and landing floors after an escape of water claim under her home 
insurance policy.  She also complains that she was told to clear her bedroom to allow works 
to take place. But was later told the works wouldnt be taking place.
Mr H holds his insurance with a business operating under a different name. But UKI are 
responsible for this complaint as they underwrite the insurance. So Ill only refer to UKI in my 
decision.
What happened
Mrs C has a home insurance policy with UKI. She contacted UKI in December 2020 as 
thered been an escape of water at her property. UKI inspected the damage and accepted 
the claim. They then carried out the required repairs.
But in summer 2021, Mrs C noticed that the floor was soft. She said the floors in the front 
bedroom and landing were moving. And she felt this was related to the escape of water 
claim. She raised her concerns with UKI. 
UKI arranged for the contractors whod originally visited Mrs Cs property in December 2020 
to visit her property in August 2021. But they didnt identify any issues with the front bedroom 
and landing flooring. They found no water staining or swelling to indicate that the damage 
was related to the escape of water claim. The contractors said they hadnt found any such 
damage to those floors when they first inspected the damage in December 2020. Based on 
the contractors new inspection, UKI didnt consider that the issues with the front bedroom 
and landing flooring Mrs C had noticed were related to her escape of water claim.
Mrs C didnt agree. So UKI appointed a second contractor to investigate further. They 
provided a scope of repairs which included wall replacements. UKI didnt consider such work 
to be necessary after the escape of water claim. The contractor also told Mrs C to move her 
items out of the bedroom so that the work could go ahead. Mrs C did that. 
As Mrs C was still unhappy, UKI appointed a third contractor to attend the property to 
investigate the cause of damage to the front bedroom and landing flooring.
During the visit, the contractors noted some movement in the floors. But they didnt find any 
signs of water damage to those areas. They also checked the property externally and the 
ceilings from below. But they didnt note any concerns having done this.
After the third contractor had inspected the property, UKI said they considered that the 
damage to the front bedroom and landing flooring was age-related. As such, it wouldnt be 
covered under Mrs Cs policy. UKI explained their decision to Mrs C. She didnt agree.
UKI told Mrs C she could arrange for her own report to be provided. And if the report 
confirmed that the damage was related to her escape of water claim, they agreed to cover 
the cost of the report and the repairs. 
UKI sent their final response letter to Mrs C in November 2021. They didnt uphold her 
complaint. They confirmed their decision to decline to cover her landing and front bedroom 
flooring within her claim was correct. Theyd seen no evidence that the movement in the 
flooring was related to the escape of water she had in December 2020. 
Mrs C was unhappy with this outcome. So she referred her complaint to this service.
In November 2021, our investigator issued his first view. He felt Mrs Cs complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt think UKI had done anything wrong in declining the claim for the front 
bedroom and landing flooring. But he felt that they should pay Mrs C £200 for the trouble 
and upset theyd caused her when she was told to move the bedroom furniture. Our 
investigator also said hed expect UKI to fairly consider any report Mrs C provided. And carry 
out any necessary claim-related repairs.
UKI didnt agree with our investigator. They said Mrs C hadnt complained to them about 
having to move the furniture in her bedroom. So they hadnt had the chance to consider it. 
They wanted it to be registered as a new complaint. 
Mrs C obtained a further report on 10 December 2021. This noted that the floors of the 
middle bedroom and en suite, which had been reinstated after the escape of water claim, 
needed some additional work. The report noted that Mrs C had noticed movement in the en 
suite and middle bedroom floors since the reinstatement work. And that she believed that the 
escape of water incident had affected the landing and the front bedroom as well. 
UKI commented on the report Mrs C had obtained. They said it didnt offer an opinion as to 
the cause of damage beyond stating what Mrs C believed. And they still felt they were 
correct in declining to carry out any work on the landing and the front bedroom as they felt 
those areas werent affected by the escape of water.
Our investigator issued his second view at the end of December 2021. He felt that the 
complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the report provided evidence that any repair 
work required to the front bedroom and landing was related to the escape of water claim. But 
he did consider that the fact that Mrs C had been told to move the furniture out of her 
bedroom should be considered as part of this complaint. He also felt that the report Mrs C 
had obtained showed that there was movement in the en suite and middle bedroom floors. 
Therefore he felt UKI should reimburse Mrs C for the cost of the report. And either carry out 
the recommended repairs to the en suite and middle bedroom. Or pay for the works to be 
carried out by Mrs Cs contractor. He also recommended that UKI paid Mrs C £400 for the 
trouble and upset theyd caused her.
UKI disagreed with the second view. They said when they reviewed the complaint, three 
separate parties had been sent out to look at the floors. And no one had found any evidence 
that the landing and front bedroom floors had been affected by the escape of water. They did 
accept that one of the contractors had led Mrs C to believe that the issues would be repaired 
by encouraging her to clear the rooms. But noted that shed never raised this as a concern 
with them. UKI said theyd reviewed Mrs Cs report. They said it didnt attribute the damage 
to the insured peril. And therefore didnt dispute their experts. They felt that our investigator 
had dismissed their experts view.
After some correspondence with our investigator, UKI said that they didnt believe any 
compensation should be paid as they felt theyd reached a fair outcome. But acknowledged 
our investigators view that based on Mrs Cs report there was evidence that a full and 
lasting repair hadn't been carried out. UKI said that although they didn't agree with the 
investigators view, they would consider doing the repairs to the en suite and middle 
bedroom as a gesture of good will. But that they wouldn't agree to compensation or to the complaint being upheld. 
Mrs C contacted our investigator again in January 2022 to explain that the situation at her 
property was getting worse. She said she was unhappy that no one lifted the carpets when 
they visited.
Our investigator put UKIs offer to Mrs C. But she turned it down and asked for her complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman.
The case was passed to me for review. I asked for further information from UKI. This 
included confirmation of the repair work they had offered to consider doing as a gesture of 
good will in the middle bedroom and en-suite. 
At this point, UKI agreed to accept our investigators view. They asked for complaint to be 
closed so that they could immediately arrange for the repairs to be started.
But Mrs C was still unhappy. So didnt agree to her complaint being closed. She said the 
landing and front bedroom were still deteriorating. And she still felt this was related to the 
escape of water damage. Mrs C asked our investigator to ask UKI to look at the landing and 
front bedroom when they visited the property. Our investigator passed on this request to UKI 
the same day.
UKI confirmed that they were accepting the schedule for the works in the en suite and 
middle bedroom, as described in Mrs Cs report. And that they were considering offering a 
settlement to Mrs C at the amount that report had quoted.
Mrs C contacted this service again to explain the situation was deteriorating. Our investigator 
called her to tell her that UKI would only be covering the areas reached in his view. And that 
I had advised that I would likely reach a similar outcome. Mrs C said shed like to obtain a 
further report. Our investigator informed UKI of Mrs Cs plan. And asked them if theyd be 
happy to start the work theyd agreed to so that delays could be avoided.
UKI agreed to review the additional report Mrs C said she would get in relation to the front 
bedroom and landing. But noted that the only contractor on their network in Mrs Cs area 
was the contractor whod incorrectly told Mrs C to remove the bedroom furniture. They said 
that they were reluctant for them to complete the repairs for this reason. So felt it would be 
preferable if Mrs Cs own contractor carried out the works theyd quoted for. So they felt that 
a cash settlement was the best way forward. 
On 1 March 2022 Mrs C told our investigator that she hadnt yet obtained a quote. And that 
the contractors who produced the report for her were unable to do the work. Therefore she 
wanted UKI to arrange for the work to be completed. 
Our investigator informed UKI about Mrs Cs contractor being unable to carry out the work. 
And asked them to contact her to arrange for their contractors to carry out the repairs to the 
areas agreed.
Our investigator allowed Mrs C some time to get a further report. But she hadnt been able to 
arrange this. So, in order to speed up the required repair work, I decided to issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigators recommendations. Ill 
explain why.
To summarise this complaint: Mrs Cs position is that her front bedroom and landing flooring 
were damaged in the December 2020 escape of water incident. And therefore she feels their 
repair should be covered under that claim. UKIs position is that this flooring wasnt affected 
by the escape of water incident. And that it is damaged due to wear and tear. 
Should UKI repair damage to the front bedroom and landing flooring?
There have been a number of assessments of the front bedroom and landing flooring carried 
out by specialists. From what Ive seen, not one of the specialists has found evidence of 
water damage to the front bedroom and landing flooring. 
I acknowledge that Mrs C considers that the landing and front bedroom floors are water 
damaged. She said that on the first visit the contractors told her it was water damage. She 
said that the deterioration in the flooring has taken place since the escape of water incident. 
But UKI said that the contractors were clear that the issues werent related to the claim. And 
that they would've picked up escape of water damage to the front bedroom and landing 
during their first visit in December 2020 if there had been any. They also noted there was still 
no evidence of water staining or water damage to the floors in question. UKI felt that the 
movement in the floor of the front bedroom and landing was due wear and tear over time.  
And considered that Mrs C may not have become aware of the movement until after she 
made the claim for damage to other flooring. They felt she wouldnt have been looking out 
for changes and defects. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence and what both parties have said. Having done so, Im 
satisfied that theres no evidence that the damage to the front bedroom and landing was 
related to the claim. So I agree with our investigator that UKI didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably when they declined to carry out repairs to the front bedroom and landing 
flooring. But that they offered to pay for a further report, obtained by Mrs C, if it showed that 
the damage was in fact related to the claim. 
Mrs C did obtain a further report. Ill cover that now.
What did Mrs Cs report say?
Mrs C arranged for a contractor to produce a report. This failed to establish that the cause of 
the damage to the front bedroom and landing flooring was the escape of water incident. 
However, it noted that since that time, Mrs C had noticed movement in the floors of the en 
suite and middle bedroom. The report noted in detail the course of action that should be 
followed to make good the en suite and middle bedroom flooring.
Based on this report, I agree with our investigator that its reasonable to say that the ongoing 
issues with the areas that UKI repaired, that is the en-suite and middle bedroom, mean that 
a full and lasting repair wasnt carried out at the time. So I cant fairly say I agree the issues 
are unrelated to the claim.
As the report Mrs C obtained showed that additional claim-related repairs were needed, Im 
also satisfied that UKI should reimburse her for the cost of the report.Ill now consider the distress and inconvenience Mrs C has suffered. 
Distress and inconvenience
Mrs C is vulnerable. And has been very concerned that the flooring could collapse at any 
time. She said the distress the complaint has caused her made her unwell. Mrs C has been 
concerned about falling through the floor. 
Mrs Cs report has evidenced that the original reinstatement work hadnt been completed 
properly. I consider that this couldve been identified at one of UKIs contractors earlier 
visits. And Im of the view that if it had been, some distress couldve been avoided.
I consider that some of Mrs Cs concern about the safety of the flooring is related to the 
outstanding repairs required to the middle bedroom and en suite flooring. Therefore Im 
satisfied that its reasonable to say UKI have some responsibility for the distress Mrs C 
experienced.
I also note that the second contractor UKI appointed told Mrs C to remove her items from the 
bedroom. Mrs C arranged to do this with the help of friends. Given this removal was 
unnecessary, I dont consider it was reasonable to tell Mrs C to do this. As our investigator 
said, this wouldve wasted Mrs Cs time. And when it was made clear to her that that part of 
her claim wouldnt be covered it wouldve caused her distress.
Overall, I consider that the £400 compensation our investigator recommended is reasonable 
under the circumstances. 
In summary, I acknowledge that Mrs C will be disappointed that I havent seen evidence that 
the flooring in the front bedroom and landing was damaged in the escape of water incident. 
But Im satisfied that UKI should take further actions, as detailed in this decision. UKI have 
agreed to take these actions. I would urge them to act as quickly as possible to help Mrs C 
feel safe, although I acknowledge that contractors have yet to be appointed.
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to take the following actions:
Reimburse Mrs C for the cost of the report.
Carry out the repairs or pay Mrs Cs contractor to carry out the repairs, with Mrs C to 
decide which option is best.
Pay Mrs C £400 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons above. U K Insurance Limited must carry out the 
actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Jo OccleshawOmbudsman