DRN-3667031
The complaint
Mr K complains that One Call Insurance Services Ltd (One Call) declined his claim for 
damage to his flat roof, and they mis-sold him a home emergency insurance policy which 
excluded flat roofs. He also complains that his policy auto renewed and he has incurred 
charges. 
  
What happened
Mr K bought buildings and contents insurance in August 2020 through One Call via a 
comparison website. One Call were the brokers for the buildings and contents policy, but the 
add on home emergency cover was provided by One Call. 
The policy came into effect on 3 August 2020. 
In August 2020 Mr K made a claim under the home emergency cover policy for a leak to his 
flat roof. This was declined as flat roofs were not covered under the policy. Mr K complained 
about this and also complained that the policy had been mis-sold as he had told One Call 
that his property had a 70% flat roof at the point of sale.  
One Call said that the policy exclusions were in the policy documents and so Mr K was 
aware.
In July 2021 One Call sent Mr K a renewal invite for his buildings, contents and home 
emergency cover by post, and it was also available online in his portal. A reminder was sent 
in later July. The notice advised that the policy would auto renew, and Mr K would need to 
cancel it if he didnt wish to continue. 
Mr K didnt make contact with One Call and on 3 August the policy auto renewed. Mr K 
cancelled his direct debit on 3 September and the policy was cancelled from 11 September. 
However, as this was outside the 14-day cooling off period, One Call charged Mr K for the 
broker fee, the cancellation fee, and the period on cover. They also asked for proof of
the alternative cover in place. If they were only the broker on the policy One Call couldnt 
waive fees applied by the insurer. 
Following this complaint, One Call removed the broker fee and cancellation fee, but left the 
balance of £61.29 which was the fee payable for the time on cover. 
Mr K was unhappy with this response and brought both of his complaints to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into both of Mr Ks complaint. He thought that in respect 
of the auto renewal, Mr K had been given sufficient notice of what he needed to do if he 
didnt want to renew, and in respect of the possible mis sale, One Call had done enough to 
bring the exclusions to the attention of Mr K.
Mr K disagreed with our investigators view and so the case came to me to review. 
 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Was the policy mis sold?
What I have to consider here is whether the policy that was sold to Mr K was suitable for his 
needs, giving him the cover that he wanted. Its acceptable for the policy to have exclusions 
and restrictions on the cover, provided that Mr K was made aware of those exclusions and 
was not in any way misled about the cover he was purchasing either directly, or because 
important information about that cover was not made clear to him. 
I have reviewed all the information that was available to Mr K, and in particular what he 
would have seen during the online purchase of the policy, and what was available to him on 
the portal.  
The online sales process
I can see from the documents provided by One Call that during the sale process on the price 
comparison website, Mr K declared that his property had more than 50% flat roof and that it 
was a felt on timber construction. The property is a flat over a shop with around a 70% flat 
roof, and so flat roof cover will have been important for Mr K, which is presumably why he 
has been open and honest about the size of the flat roof during the sale process.
  
Having made the declaration that a significant portion of his property has a flat roof, I would 
expect an insurer to offer policies which would account for that, and if they werent able to  
offer flat roof cover, to specifically draw the consumers attention to any exclusion during the 
sale process. 
One Call have told me that in the sale process, if the over 50% flat roof option is selected, no 
further supplementary questions are asked. They also havent been able to provide any 
evidence of any pop-up screens or any warnings that specifically draw the buyers attention 
to the fact that there is no flat roof cover.
 
One Call have said in their final response letter that once the quotation is accepted from the 
price comparison site (the quotation being on the basis of the answers provided) the 
customer is redirected to their website to make payment. Before payment is made, the full 
policy documents are listed for the consumer to see and read. They have provided a copy of 
this screen, which lists the policy documents, but again there is no specific attention drawn 
to any exclusions, and in particular any flat roof cover.  
In the letter sent to Mr K on 3 August 2020 following the purchase of Home Emergency Care 
Premium cover at the bottom of page 2 it lists the significant warranties, conditions, 
exclusions and endorsements. Within that list it says  
Excludes any damage to flat, tarpaulin, glass, plastic, felt or thatched roofs
It also asks the customer to read the Insurance Product Information Document  which is 
attached. In that document it has a section What is not insured which has a red icon to 
draw attention to it, and it has listed: 
Any damage to flat, tarpaulin, glass, plastic, felt or thatched roofs.   
Although I think this exclusion itself is clear and explicit, this letter is sent after the sale 
process and it doesnt alter the fact that Mr K had made a full disclosure about his flat roof at 
the point of sale, and yet was he was offered policies which excluded cover, and his 
attention wasnt drawn to it.  I am satisfied that had Mr K known that the majority of his roof wasnt covered by this policy, 
he wouldnt have taken it out. He has told me that the policy he was sold wasnt fit for 
purpose, and so I am satisfied that the Home Emergency Cover was mis sold to Mr K and I 
intend to uphold this part of his complaint. 
The auto renewal
The notifications sent to Mr K make it clear that they will auto renew the policy unless he tells 
them otherwise. 
On 15 July 2021 Mr K was sent a letter by post and through the online portal which 
explained that the policy would auto renew on 3 August and that if Mr K didnt want to renew 
the policy he would need to make contact with them by phone or letter.  Im satisfied that 
these were sent.   
The letter also explained the charges:
Cancellations and Charges
If you do not wish to renew your policy with us, or you just wish to remove any additional
products, the policyholder must notify us by telephone before the renewal date or we will
charge you £35.99 in addition to your insurers time on risk. Any additional products cannot
be removed from 14 days after the renewal date.
Within the first 14 days from receiving your policy documents, or the policy start date, you
may cancel your policy under the terms of the cooling-off period. This is provided that you
cancel your policy and return all documentation within 14 days of receiving your policy
documents, or the policy start date, whichever is the latter, along with a written explanation.
All insurers have a right to apply a policy time on risk charge. One Call Insurance will apply
a charge in addition to any insurer charges to cover the cost of setting up your policy in
accordance with our terms of business. After this cooling-off period we will cancel your policy
on a pro rata basis with an insurer fee applied. We will also include any administration fees
and any additional products applied during the policy term. Full details can be found in our
main terms and conditions, located on our website, or alternatively you can call our office to
request a hard copy.
We reserve the right to make a charge to cover the cost of setting up your policy where your
cover is cancelled within the cooling off period - £35.99
Any changes made to the policy after the start date will be subject to a charge of up to
£39.00 in addition to any change in premium from the insurer.
On 2 September 2021 Mr K cancelled the direct debit but hadnt contacted One Call direct to 
tell them that he didnt want the policy, so One Call sent a seven-day cancellation letter, and 
then cancelled the policy on 11 September. They sent Mr K confirmation of the outstanding 
balance that was due, which included the broker fee, the cancellation fee, and the charge for 
the time on cover. 
Following his complaint and their investigation, One Call agreed to waive the broker fee and 
the cancellation fee, but they couldnt waive the fee for the time on cover without proof of 
alternative cover being in place. 
I am satisfied that Mr K was given sufficient information about what he needed to do in order 
to prevent auto renewal, and what those charges would be. I think that One Call have acted 
fairly in applying those charges, although I note that they have now waived some of them as 
a gesture of goodwill and are also willing to reconsider the fee for the time on cover if evidence of alternative insurance is provided. In view of this, I dont think that One Call have 
done anything wrong here.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Mr K and One Call a copy of my provisional decision. After further correspondence 
with both parties, I amended the redress to a refund of premium, which One Call have now 
accepted. Mr K has not replied further.
I am therefore making my final decision for the reasons Ive summarised above.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, One Call should refund Mr K the Home Emergency Cover 
premium he has paid for the year 2020-2021, plus 8% statutory interest on that sum from the 
date that it was paid until the date of the refund. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct One Call Insurance Services 
Limited to put things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman