DRN-2824161
The complaint
Mr T has complained that, because of poor customer service by a mortgage adviser at 
Nationwide Building Society, he lost the opportunity to have his early repayment charge 
(ERC) refunded. Mr T would like Nationwide to reimburse this, along with costs he incurred 
in his abortive purchase and mortgage with a different lender.
What happened
Mr T had a mortgage with Nationwide taken out in 2015. Although Mr T said on his complaint 
form that this was a five-year mortgage, it was in fact a 17-year mortgage term, with the first 
five years of the term (referred to in the mortgage offer as the Benefit Period) at a fixed rate 
of interest of 2.54%, which expired in October 2020.
If the mortgage was repaid within the Benefit Period, an ERC would be payable, on a 
tapering scale, from 5% of the amount repaid in the first year, 4% in the second year, and so 
on, down to 1% in the fifth year.
The mortgage offer also said, however, that if Mr T were to move house and Nationwide was 
to offer him a new loan, he could keep the mortgage product and not have to pay the ERC if 
he transferred the balance and the terms of the product onto the new loan for the remainder 
of the Benefit Period. The mortgage offer also said, in the same section: This product may 
not be available for any additional borrowing above the balance transferred when completing 
your new mortgage.
Nationwides policy at the time was that there was a 180-day window from redemption of the 
old mortgage within which to complete on a new mortgage which included the interest rate 
product from the old mortgage in order to receive a refund of any ERC paid on redemption. If 
only part of the old product was transferred onto the new mortgage, then a partial refund of 
the ERC would be made.
On 18 December 2019 Mr T redeemed the mortgage. As this was in year five of the fixed-
rate product, he paid an ERC o f1% of the amount repaid, which was £1,083.81.
On 27 January 2020 Mr T spoke to Nationwide about a new mortgage. Hed found a new 
property and wanted to port the whole of his old mortgage product onto his new mortgage. 
Nationwide explained that if he did so, the ERC would be reimbursed. A decision in principle 
was issued showing that Nationwide would be prepared to lend £260,000, subject to 
application and underwriting. An appointment was arranged with a mortgage adviser.
On 31 January 2020 Mr T had a meeting with a mortgage adviser at a branch. A mortgage 
illustration (KFI) was issued for a loan of £250,000 over a term of 28 years. The KFI said that 
the loan was in two parts:
Part 1 was the product being ported from Mr Ts previous mortgage. This was for £109,680 
at an initial fixed rate of 2.54% until 31 October 2020, giving a monthly payment of £465.48, 
following which that part of the loan would revert to Nationwides Standard Mortgage Rate 
(SMR). The term of the loan was to be 28 years. 
Part 2 of the loan was for £140,320, also over a term of 28 years, at an initial fixed interest 
rate of 1.64% for five years, giving a monthly payment of £521.10, following which it would 
revert to Nationwides SMR.
This gave a total initial payment of £977.58, for the two separate parts of the loan that were 
subject to separate fixed rate products.
This meant that the payments under Part 1 of the loan would be £456.58 until 31 October 
2020, and, once the fixed rate ended on 31 October 2020, the payments would (if Mr T didnt 
switch that part of the loan to a new product) increase to £555.86. Added to the payments 
under part 2 of the loan (which would be on a fixed rate until February 2025), the monthly 
repayments would then be £1,076.96.
On 1 February 2020 Nationwide emailed the KFI to Mr T. He responded on 3 February 2020, 
saying he wanted to put down a larger deposit. As such, would it be possible to provide me 
with full repayment details, if I were to put down a deposit of £155,000, to cover terms of 25 
and 28 years please?
The adviser responded on 4 February 2020 explaining that Mr T would need to have another 
appointment if the application was to be changed. Mr T replied an hour later, saying: Having 
done some further research in the past 24 hours, I have decided to look elsewhere for a 
mortgage. As such, please consider my application with Nationwide as withdrawn.
The adviser asked Mr T his reasons, and he said:
1. It was not at all clear that monthly repayments from 31 October 2020 would be 
£1,076.96. My understanding was that they would be £977.58 for the 5-year period.
2. I am unable to see how the ERC from my previous mortgage is refunded.
3. I can obtain a better deal, elsewhere.
The mortgage adviser replied on 5 February 2020 to explain that the ERC would be 
refunded within a month of completion, and that Mr T could review the deal he was porting 
when it ended to get a better rate. She said If you wanted to come back in I can go through 
this with you, or have you decided to look elsewhere?. Mr T didnt reply to that email.
I am told that by Mr T that he applied for a mortgage with another lender, but the purchase 
later fell through. 
In August 2020 Mr T complained to Nationwide. He was unhappy about the service hed 
received. He said it was never made clear to him that he could only port the remainder of the 
five-year term of the product hed taken out in 2015. Mr T says he was led to believe the 
entire product would be on a fixed rate for a fresh five years. Mr T thought the mortgage 
adviser was incompetent and that the service hed received was shambolic. He said that, 
as a result of Nationwides incompetence, he has lost not only a refund of the ERC of just 
over £1,000, but the costs of the abortive purchase, including a survey, mortgage valuation 
and search fees, which he estimates to be about £1,000.
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr T brought it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, where an investigator looked at what had happened. The investigator didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied Nationwide had provided a clear enough 
explanation of the length of time the original product would be ported for, and that this was 
illustrated by there being two products shown on the KFI. He was also satisfied that Nationwide had answered Mr Ts emails and had offered to go through things further with 
him. Overall, the investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong and so there 
was no basis on which compensation was warranted.
Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings. Mr T 
emphasised that he considers himself to be someone who is financially and numerically 
savvy . He was astounded that there were no notes made of the meeting on 31 January 
2020. Mr T said that his understanding was that the figure of £977.58 (made up of Part 1 of 
the loan fixed to 31 October 2020 and Part 2 of the loan fixed to February 2025) was the 
amount hed pay for the entire first five years of the term. He said it was never explained to 
him that his original mortgage product which he was porting would expire on 31 October 
2020 and payments would increase as a result. 
Mr T also said that he didnt understand how the ERC would be refunded because 
Nationwide said this would be within a month of completion and he didnt understand what 
completion meant. Mr T was also upset that the KFI didnt explain how the ERC would be 
refunded.
In May 2021 Mr T asked for an extension of time to provide further arguments, and an 
extension of time was granted to 1 July 2021. However no further evidence or arguments 
have been submitted and we are now six months past the extension of time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons.
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service considers complaints 
against financial businesses as corporate entities, rather than against individual members of 
staff. So although Ive noted Mr Ts comments about a particular Nationwide staff member, I 
will refer only to Nationwide, rather than to individuals.
The starting point is that, under the terms of the 2015 contract between Mr T and 
Nationwide, the ERC was payable on redemption of the mortgage before 31 December 
2020. The provisions for the ERC to be refunded in certain circumstances has been set out 
above.
I will also explain that theres nothing untoward in the KFI showing the proposed loan in two 
parts; its quite normal in cases where one part of the mortgage is on one deal and another 
part is on a different deal. That was necessary here because Mr T was already part way 
through a fixed rate deal on the mortgage hed recently redeemed when he enquired about a 
new mortgage. The way the loan is set out on the KFI clearly shows when the fixed rates on 
both parts of the loan expire, and the implications of this on the monthly repayment.
The KFI has to contain the information required about the proposed new mortgage under the 
Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) 5.6. Im satisfied 
the KFI provided by Nationwide contains this information. It is not necessary for details of 
how a refund of the ERC from the old mortgage will be paid to be included in the KFI, as this 
is not required by the regulator.Mr T says it was the meeting on 31 January 2020 which caused him to be misled or 
misunderstand the porting process and the product he was intending to apply for. Due to the 
passage of time, the mortgage adviser doesnt remember the details of what was discussed 
at the meeting with Mr T on 31 January 2020. Mr T has provided his recollection of the 
meeting, in which (he says) the adviser had to leave the room several times to make 
telephone calls, which (he surmises) was because he believes she didnt know what she 
was doing and was obtaining guidance. 
There is nothing sinister or untoward about Nationwide not having notes or a recording of the 
meeting on 31 January 2020. This was an initial discussion, following which a KFI was 
issued. At that point there was no full application, and the transaction didnt proceed to a full 
application.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I have to decide what I think it likely to 
have happened, based on the available evidence. Mr Ts position is clear  that he believes 
he was misled about the product and was told that the fixed rate on both parts of the loan 
would apply for the full five years. Mr T says that this was due to a lack of understanding and 
general incompetence on the part of the mortgage adviser about the porting process and 
how the ERC would be refunded. 
However, Im not persuaded, on balance, and after reviewing the available evidence, that 
Nationwide gave Mr T incorrect information. I say this because, first of all, the mortgage offer 
from 2015 explains clearly that the product can be ported to a new property for the 
remainder of the Benefit Period, which is stated to end on 31 October 2020. Im satisfied that 
Mr T would, or should, have known this from his original mortgage offer.
I also think its unlikely that Nationwide would, on the one hand, have issued a KFI which 
showed the product expiring on 31 October 2020 but on the other hand (as Mr T has 
claimed) told him that the product ran for an additional five years.
I also note that, on his complaint form, Mr T says hed taken out a five-year mortgage in 
2015, when the mortgage offer shows that the term was actually over a seventeen-year 
period. This suggests to me that any confusion about the mortgage is more likely to have 
been on the part of Mr T, rather than Nationwide. I can also see that Nationwide, reasonably 
in my opinion, offered to answer any queries Mr T had about the KFI, but instead he chose 
to go with a different lender.
In relation to the issue concerning when the refund of the ERC would be made, Im satisfied 
that Mr T was told by Nationwide on 5 February 2020 that the ERC would be refunded within 
a month of completion. As this was in the context of a property purchase and a new 
mortgage, the normal understanding of this would be that completion would mean 
completion of the purchase and mortgage. From what hes told us about his professional 
background, Im not persuaded Mr T would have misunderstood this to mean, as he now 
claims, completion of the five-year fixed rate term which ran until 31 October 2020.
Im sorry Mr T lost out on the property he wanted to buy. I can see from online property 
portals that this property was sold on 10 March 2021, more than two months after Mr T 
decided not to proceed with an application to Nationwide. I dont think theres any basis on 
which I can hold Nationwide responsible for the loss of the property, or order it to reimburse 
Mr T for his abortive purchase and mortgage costs.Im also satisfied that theres no basis on which Nationwide is required to refund the ERC. It 
was Mr Ts decision to go to a new lender. The evidence suggests to me that it was the 
availability of what Mr T thought was a better deal from a different lender that was the driver 
for Mr T deciding not to proceed with an application to Nationwide, particularly as Nationwide 
was prepared to answer his queries about the KFI.
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr T was hoping for. But after giving careful consideration 
to everything he and Nationwide have said, Im unable to find that Nationwide has done 
anything wrong.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman