DRN-2364328
The complaint
Mr S, who is represented by a third party, says he was mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a credit card in September 2004 with Barclays 
Bank UK Plc (Barclays).
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and whilst at first they thought it hadnt 
been mis-sold, they went on to uphold the complaint having received information from 
Mr S about his savings. 
Barclays disagreed that the PPI had been mis-sold to Mr S so the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
In my provisional decision dated 21 October 2020 I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold this complaint. I set out an extract below: 
I think Barclays made Mr S aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it 
out. Although Mr S cant specifically recall taking out the PPI, Barclays has given us 
evidence to show he bought it when he applied for the card at a meeting in a branch. Ive 
seen on the credit card application form that PPI had been selected with a tick. If Mr S 
hadnt wanted PPI it would have been open to him to instead tick the no box for PPI. So I 
think its likely Mr S knew he had a choice about whether to buy PPI cover and decided, 
based on the Barclays recommendation, that it was worthwhile taking out. 
It seems to me that the policy was probably suitable for Mr S. He was employed, eligible 
for the cover and it doesnt look like he was adversely affected by any of the main 
exclusions. 
Mr S wasnt able to tell us exact details of the benefits he was entitled to from his 
employer if he couldnt work. However, I fully accept that given the nature of his 
employment its likely he would have been entitled to some level of sick pay at the time he 
took out the PPI.
Mr S also told us about the good level of savings he had in an account with Barclays. That 
account was also linked to his mortgage account by way of an offset arrangement so that 
Mr S was able to make savings on the interest payable on his mortgage each month. 
However, if hed been in a position where hed have to use these savings to meet his 
monthly credit card repayments  if he couldnt work or lost his job - hed lose out by 
having to pay more mortgage interest. 
Given that from what Ive seen Mr S was aware hed agreed to take out the PPI, its likely 
he would have decided having the PPI was a worthwhile benefit to enable him to meet his 
monthly payments if he wasnt working, but without having to dig into his savings.
 
On the basis that the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months if he made a successful 
claim, my view is that it was useful for Mr S. Ive seen that the policy cost 79p for each £100 
Mr S owed on the card. If he made a successful claim, Mr S would have had 10% of the 
outstanding balance on the card paid for up to 12 months. I think thats a worthwhile benefit 
at a reasonable cost. And I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr S couldnt 
afford the monthly policy premiums.
All of this means that, on the basis that Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr S at the 
meeting, it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him, taking into account what we know of 
his circumstances at the time. 
Barclays also had a duty to provide clear information. After so long I simply dont know if 
it told Mr S everything he should have been told. I can certainly see ways in which the 
sale process could have been clearer. But I think the credit agreement which he signed 
would have been most likely accompanied by information about the PPI.
Which means I currently think that Barclays shouldnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr S, allowing for the fact that its already refunded some of commission from 
the sale of the policy.
Copies of my provisional decision were sent to Mr S and Barclays. I asked them to come 
back to me if they had any further evidence or information they wanted me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Barclays has said it has nothing further to add and neither Mr S nor his representative have 
come back with anything more. So, given that Ive not received any further evidence or 
information, I wont be departing from the finding I made in my provisional decision. It follows 
that, whilst I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. So Barclays Bank UK Plc doesnt need to do anything 
more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman