DRN-3057643
The complaint
Mr and Ms Ts complaint is about the amount of compensation Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) offered following a complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out by them in 1997.
What happened
Mr and Ms T first complained to Nationwide about the sale of their PPI in 2012. Nationwide 
didnt uphold their complaint at that time. They didnt complain to this service about that 
decision. 
Mr and Ms T later complained to Nationwide about the amount of commission and profit 
share Nationwide received from the sale. Nationwide upheld this complaint and paid Mr and 
Ms T compensation on 6 May 2021. 
Mr and Ms T werent content with the response to their complaint from Nationwide and 
referred their complaint to this service shortly afterwards.
An adjudicator explained to Mr and Ms T that they thought the amount of compensation paid 
by Nationwide was fair. Mr and Ms T disagreed, although they didnt explain why they 
thought that. 
As Mr and Ms T didnt agree with the adjudicators view the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit share 
Nationwide got due to the PPI. I am unable to consider how the policy was sold as Im 
satisfied the complaint wasnt brough in time. Ive only looked at whether the payment 
Nationwide made is fair.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Nationwide said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra Mr and Ms T paid each month 
because of the commission and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost of 
PPI for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest 
to compensate Mr and Ms T for the time they were out of pocket.
Mr and Ms T have indicated they should receive all the commission and profit share back. 
But Nationwide has done what the rules it must follow tell it to do.
Ive thought about whether theres anything about Mr and Ms Ts particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Nationwide should do something different to put right the 
unfairness caused by not telling them about the amount of commission and profit share it 
got. But I dont think there is. I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. So I wont be telling Nationwide to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons above I think Nationwide Building Society has correctly worked out what it 
needs to pay Mr and Ms T.
I understand Nationwide Building Society has already made a payment to Mr and Ms T, but 
if it hasnt then it should update and pay its offer to Mr and Ms T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman