DRN-3299806
The complaint
Mr H complains that some advice he was given by Portal Financial Services LLP about the 
transfer and subsequent investment of his pension savings was inappropriate.
What happened
Mr H has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But in this decision, for ease, I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, 
and from, Mr H himself.
Mr H held pension savings in a personal pension plan. They were invested in a with-profits 
fund. In 2013 he received a cold call offering him a review of his pension arrangements. He 
accepted that offer and was referred to Portal for the review. At that time Mr H was 49 years 
old, and unable to work due to ill-health. 
Portal recommended that Mr H should transfer his pension savings to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) with a new provider. It determined Mr Hs attitude to risk as being 
adventurous, and that he had sufficient capacity for loss to support its recommendations. 
Portal recommended that Mr H invest around 70% of his transferred pension savings into 
three unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS). 
The three UCIS investments are largely illiquid. And Mr H says that they are now effectively 
worthless. So he complained to Portal about the advice hed been given in relation to the 
transfer of his pension savings and their subsequent investment.
Portal initially told Mr H that his complaint had been made too late. I looked at that objection 
in an earlier decision and concluded that Mr Hs complaint had been made in time. So the 
merits of his complaint have been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
advice Mr H received from Portal was unsuitable. He didnt think there had been any clear 
need for Mr H to transfer his pension savings. And he thought that the investments Portal 
had recommended had been unsuitable for Mr H. So he asked Portal to pay Mr H some 
compensation.
Portal didnt agree with that assessment. Although I am only briefly summarising what Portal 
has said, I want to reassure Portal that I have carefully read and considered its entire 
response. Portal says that it still considers the SIPP it recommended to Mr H was suitable. It 
says the charges of the SIPP were very competitive in the marketplace, and provided Mr H 
with the flexibility he might need when he took his retirement benefits. It says its advisor 
thought that the investment returns Mr H had been receiving from his previous pension 
provider could have been exceeded following the transfer.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr H accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by Portal. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think there are two matters for me to consider here. Firstly, whether it was reasonable for 
Portal to recommend to Mr H that he should transfer his pension savings from his existing 
provider to the new SIPP. And then whether the investments that Portal recommended were 
suitable for Mr Hs circumstances.
I havent seen anything to make me think that the SIPP Portal recommended to Mr H was 
inherently unsuitable for his circumstances. The fees appeared to be reasonable, and by 
transferring his pension benefits he wasnt giving up any valuable guarantees as he might 
have done had he been transferring pension savings from say a defined benefit occupational 
pension scheme. But I also havent seen anything that would make me think that the existing 
pension plan that Mr H held was unsuitable for his circumstances either. And I think that 
there would need to be clear reasons why it was necessary for Mr H to transfer. I think the 
only justification that could be made for the transfer was that it allowed Portal to receive its 
fee, and recommend the investments that I will consider shortly.
When Portal gave its advice to Mr H it made it clear that he had the option to do nothing. 
And if he chose that option he wouldnt have been obligated to pay the 5% fee that he had 
agreed with Portal for its advice. So there was a clear incentive for Portal to recommend to 
Mr H that he should transfer his pension savings. And that might have placed Portal in 
conflict with its regulatory obligations to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
Mr H paid a significant fee to Portal for its advice. So it would seem to me that Portal would 
need to be sure that its recommendation would make it likely that the fee Mr H had paid 
would be recouped in form of better investment returns, particularly since it also told him the 
ongoing fees on the new arrangement would be higher than he was paying. Or, if there were 
other compelling reasons for the transfer, that those were clearly set out for Mr H. Im not 
persuaded that Portal did show any other compelling reasons, so I think the necessity of the 
transfer is inextricably linked to the suitability of the investments it recommended.
As I have said earlier, Portal advised Mr H to invest a significant proportion of his pension 
savings across three UCIS funds. Portals regulator had considered the use of UCIS funds in 
a report issued in 2010. Generally it thought that good practice might see funds of this nature 
limited to between 3% and 5% of an investors portfolio. And the regulator had said that it 
considered funds of this nature to be only suitable for a small range of individuals, notably 
high net worth, or sophisticated, investors.Portal says it asked Mr H to complete a questionnaire so that it could accurately assess his 
attitude to risk. On the face of it, Mr Hs answers led Portal to conclude that he was an 
adventurous investor. And in its report it described those characteristics as being those of 
investors who have high levels of financial knowledge and keep up to date on
financial issues. They will usually be experienced investors, who have used a range of
investment products in the past, and who may take an active approach to managing their
investments. And it noted that it had concluded Mr H had a suitable level of capacity for 
loss for the recommendation it had made.
But those assessments do not match what I know of Mr Hs circumstances at the time  and 
the information Portal noted in its records. I cannot be sure how Mr H completed the 
questionnaire  and I must consider the very real possibility that his answers were guided by 
Portal simply to support its recommendation.
At the time of the advice, Mr H was aged 49. He was unable to work due to ill-health, and it 
doesnt seem he had much prospect of that changing during the rest of his working life. He 
also had very limited sources of other funding to support his living costs both at the time, and 
in retirement. His income was entirely comprised of disability benefits, and he appeared to 
have little else in terms of savings or investments. Given his ill-health there was little 
prospect of Mr H being able to replace any investment losses that his pension might suffer in 
the following years. And in the questionnaire answers he provided he said that he had little 
experience of investing in stocks and shares, or property.
So I cannot conclude that it was reasonable for Portal to recommend that Mr H take such a 
high-risk strategy with his pension investments. He had no real capacity to support any 
losses he might face. I dont think it likely that Portal set out in sufficient detail the risks that 
were inherent in the recommendation it gave to Mr H. And I think if Mr H had been given 
better information he would have most likely sought more mainstream investments for his 
pension savings  or even more likely left them with his current provider.
So since I dont think it was suitable for Mr H to be advised to make the UCIS investments  
and that instead he should have been advised to remain in safer investments  I dont think 
there was any need for him to transfer his pension savings to a new SIPP. It follows that 
I think the advice he was given by Portal was unsuitable, and that his complaint should be 
upheld. Portal needs to put things right for Mr H.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr H would have remained with his previous provider, however 
I cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have 
been worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below:
Portal should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
But it seems likely that Mr H is likely to be a nil rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so no reduction should be applied.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
new SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr H provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing 
the receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr H's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the new SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from 
that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, 
Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to 
determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr H's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr H into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr H would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr H could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to 
put things right as detailed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman