DRN-4165951
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly handled a jewellery claim 
made under her valuables insurance policy.
Any reference to Mrs L or Aviva includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ill summarise events.
Mrs L made a claim on her valuables insurance policy for a set of earrings (insured 
for £4,400). The jewellery was made abroad, inherited by Mrs L, and held significant 
sentimental value.
A previous complaint came to this Service following a dispute about proof of 
purchase/valuation of the jewellery in question. The Investigator determined Aviva 
needed to reconsider the claim in line with its policy terms and this was accepted by 
both parties.
Aviva reconsidered the claim and accepted it, saying it would issue a voucher up to 
the limit stated in the insurance schedule in line with its policy terms.
Mrs L complained, saying she wasnt prepared to pay the £250 excess, and this 
should instead be deducted from the settlement. She said the jewellery was 
handmade and could not be replaced at a jeweller specified by Aviva with a voucher, 
asking for £4,150 in cash so she could have the earrings remade as close to the 
original as possible. And she asked for interest for delays on Avivas part.
So, the complaint came back to this Service. Our Investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said it was fair for Aviva to rely on the agreed value of the jewellery 
(£4,400) when settling the claim, and that its policy terms allow it to use a voucher. 
And in this instance, it was not unreasonable for it to use this option as Mrs L hadnt 
evidenced that Avivas provider could not replicate the jewellery.
Mrs L disagreed, saying the voucher would not put her back into the same position 
she was in prior to the loss  saying they would only accept either a cash settlement 
or an exact copy of the jewellery.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In this case theres no dispute that the claim is accepted by Aviva. The dispute that 
remains is purely about the settlement. The starting point is to consider the policy 
terms. Under the title what is covered the policy states:
We agree to pay for repair or replacement, or issue a voucher, up to the limit 
stated in Your Insurance Schedule, of Jewellery and Watches owned by 
You that have been stolen, lost or sustained Accidental Damage or 
malicious damage occurring within the Period of Insurance and within the 
Territorial Limit detailed in the Insurance Schedule.
Im satisfied the terms are clear and the option of how to settle the claim remains the 
choice of Aviva. This is common in policies of this nature, and not inherently unfair. 
So, Ive thought about the particular circumstances of this case and whether it would 
be unfair or unreasonable for Aviva to settle this particular claim using a voucher.
I understand the jewellery in question was handmade in another country. But Mrs Ls 
objections to the use of a jewellery voucher doesnt seem supported by any 
discussions with such jewellers. While I understand she may want the item remade 
by the same provider as before, this simply isnt what the policy shes bought allows 
for. Nor has she demonstrated any of the providers open to her  through use of the 
voucher  would not be able to replicate the item closely as she wishes.
So, Im satisfied Avivas reliance on its policy terms, and use of a voucher is fair and 
reasonable in this case. It has used the valuation of £4,400 - what the item was 
insured for  so Im satisfied thats the right figure to use for settlement of the claim. 
Mrs L has also discussed receiving a cash settlement. But this isnt an option of 
settlement specified under her policy. And for the reasons above, I see no reason to 
direct Aviva to depart from these terms in this particular case. 
There was some previous dispute about whether or not Mrs L should pay the excess 
herself or whether Aviva should remove this from its settlement. As this issue 
appears to have fallen away, I wont comment on it further in this particular case. 
Although I would comment that is common for an insurance excess to be paid by the 
policyholder prior to a settlement  and not something on its face I would consider to 
be unfair on an insurers part.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman