DRN-3008908
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Simpson Kelly Associates Ltd (SKA) 
to transfer deferred benefits from his defined benefit (DB) pension with the British Steel 
Pensions Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He believes that the advice was unsuitable 
for him and has resulted in a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Fs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a private pension arrangement.
It seems Mr F was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the 
security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. So Mr F contacted a financial adviser, SKA, 
in 2017. 
SKA gathered information about Mr Fs circumstances and objectives. However, as it didnt 
hold the relevant permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the 
transfer of his defined benefits in the BSPS, it said another firm - which Ill call Firm R - 
could provide Mr F with pension transfer advice. 
On 13 August 2017, Firm R wrote to Mr F and explained that following a request from SKA, it 
was responsible for providing the pension transfer advice Mr F was seeking. It invited Mr F 
to confirm he was giving his permission for this to happen, upon which he signed a 
declaration by return. And in September 2017, following Firm Rs advice, £446,389 was 
transferred from the BSPS to a personal pension. After the transfer, agency for the personal 
pension was switched back to SKA for it to provide ongoing advice and servicing on behalf 
of Mr F.
In 2020, Mr F complained to SKA about the advice he says hed been given to transfer out. 
However, SKA told him it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it said 
it had referred him to Firm R. The complaint was then referred to our Service as Mr Fs 
representative says he had never met with Firm R and that his only dealings were with SKA, 
so it should be held liable.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think we should uphold it. They 
werent persuaded that SKA had advised Mr F to transfer his pension and explained that it 
was Firm R that advised him to do so. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
My understanding of Mr Fs representatives position is that SKA should be held liable for the 
pension transfer advice. This is because Mr F says he never actually met with, or spoke to or 
directly dealt with anyone, from Firm R. He says that whilst he was informed of a third partys 
involvement, he didnt understand the nature and extent of this. Mr Fs representative also 
says SKA did not treat Mr F fairly or have regard to his best interests. 
Ill deal with each of these issues in turn.
Did SKA advise Mr F to transfer?
Having considered the available evidence with great care, Im not persuaded that SKA 
advised Mr F to transfer his BSPS benefits. I accept that Mr F dealt directly with SKA, rather 
than Firm R. Ive also taken into account that SKA completed a number of important 
preliminary documents, including the fact-find and risk profile. I note these documents 
contained information about Mr Fs pension and what his objectives were with regard to it.  
Ive also thought about the nature and timing of some of these documents and note they 
were most likely prepared by SKA before Firm R had provided its pension advice.
However, its important for me to point out that SKA did not have the necessary regulatory 
permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of DB occupational pension schemes. In 
my view, it was made clear by Firm R, when it wrote to Mr F on 13 August 2017, that it was 
responsible for the pension transfer advice and was being asked to provide this after a 
request by the adviser Mr F was using from SKA. Mr F acknowledged this by signing an 
attached declaration form and returning it to SKA so I think hed have been aware at that 
point the pension advice was being carried out by a different company.
Many of the documents Ive seen in this case, some of which Ive mentioned above, were 
promptly completed by SKA directly after Mr F engaged with it. And so I accept this could 
have given rise to a genuine belief that SKA was giving him advice to transfer out of his DB 
scheme. However, I think its likely these documents were prepared for Firm Rs benefit 
should the advice be to go ahead with the transfer. 
On the other hand, Ive noted Mr F was provided with other documents too, including a 
Client Agreement and also a Service Proposition & Engagement form, which bore Firm Rs 
name. And Ive seen a schedule of charges which show that Firm Rs fees applied to the 
provision of pension transfer advice, including for the completion of relevant pension transfer 
application forms. In my view therefore, these things would all have provided further 
information to Mr F that the pension advice was being provided by Firm R, rather than SKA. 
Nevertheless, I think its possible that SKA was hopeful that Firm R would indeed go on to 
advise Mr F to transfer out of the BSPS so it could become his ongoing adviser and receive 
future advice fees. And its certainly possible that Mr F believed SKA was advocating for the 
transfer of his pension benefits for this reason.
Ive taken into account the handwritten letter that Mr F says SKA told him to write. The letter 
notes that Mr F was aware of the reduced transfer value and said that he wanted to move 
his pension so he could pass it on to his wife and family and because he wanted flexibility. 
While this letter points to discussions between Mr F and SKA about his objectives and his 
desire to transfer, Im not satisfied that it demonstrates Mr F had already been persuaded by 
SKA to transfer his BSPS pension. And ultimately, at this stage he was being referred to 
Firm R for full advice; the letter was attached to SKAs fact-find and passed on to Firm R for its consideration. Ultimately, whether or not Mr F proceeded with the transfer depended on 
the advice Firm R went on to give him. 
So, overall, I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that SKA gave Mr F a 
personal recommendation about his pension transfer, either verbally or in writing. I think the 
evidence is more persuasive that Firm R advised Mr F to transfer out of the BSPS, not SKA.
Even if I consider that its possible that SKA strayed into giving Mr F verbal advice to transfer 
his BSPS benefits, I still dont think he could have done so based on those interactions 
alone. I say this because the transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS 
clearly stated that Mr F would be required to provide evidence that he had taken appropriate 
financial advice if he wanted to transfer out of his BSPS benefits to a flexible benefits 
scheme. This requirement was repeated in the transfer value discharge form, which stated 
that Mr F would need to provide a signed confirmation from his adviser that such advice had 
been given. So, I dont think Mr F could have transferred out of the BSPS based on the 
meetings he had with SKA, or any verbal advice he feels he was given  he simply wouldnt 
have been able to meet the trustees requirements.
In the event, it was Firm R which produced a recommendation letter about the pension 
transfer, which demonstrates it was Firm R that gave Mr F advice in respect of his pension. 
Ive also seen a certificate showing Firm R had provided the required financial advice to 
enable the pension transfer to take place. All this means Im satisfied it was Firm R that gave 
the advice for Mr F to transfer out of the BSPS. I dont think SKAs earlier involvement 
should automatically make it liable for the suitability of the pension transfer advice provided 
by Firm R. It is my view that Firm R remains fully responsible for the advice it gave Mr F to 
transfer out of the BSPS.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr F would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm R had advised him not to transfer. Mr Fs 
representative says he was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with SKA. But 
on balance I dont think Mr F would have gone against the advice provided by Firm R. Mr F 
was a relatively inexperienced investor and was still a few years below the age he wanted to 
retire at, which were only aspirational retirement plans at that stage. So I think if Firm R had 
provided Mr F with clear advice in writing against transferring, explaining why it wasnt 
suitable for him, I dont think Mr F wouldve acted against that advice purely based on his 
earlier discussions with SKA.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Rs advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr F to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm R is responsible for 
Mr Fs losses flowing from the transfer.
Did SKA and Firm R embark on a joint venture?
Mr Fs representative says a joint venture existed between SKA and Firm R to facilitate Mr F 
transferring out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial 
loss Mr F has suffered.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
SKA liable for the advice given to Mr F to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr Fs 
representative states that Mr F was verbally advised to transfer by SKA, Im satisfied Mr F 
transferred his BSPS benefits because Firm R advised him to do so, independently of SKAs 
involvement. So, I think Mr Fs losses flow from Firm Rs advice, rather than because of any 
interaction he had with SKA before that.
SKA did not treat Mr F fairly or have due regard to his best interestsMr Fs representative has suggested that SKA didnt treat Mr F fairly or act in his best 
interests by partnering with Firm R. It says that SKA ought to have known that transferring 
out of a DB scheme was rarely the right thing to do. Instead, it said it endorsed the advice.
However, as I have said above, SKA did not have the necessary regulatory permission to 
advise Mr F on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, SKA could not have advised Mr F 
against transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators 
starting position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer out. As SKA 
didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr F to Firm R, which was regulated by 
the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think SKA could reasonably be expected 
to carry out further due diligence on Firm R, particularly as Firm R had the necessary 
permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated adviser, it was also 
required to treat Mr F fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was SKAs advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Fs decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm R. I am also not 
persuaded that SKA made an error or treated Mr F unfairly in the role it carried out. Because 
of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require SKA to pay compensation to Mr F or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman