DRN-3209652
The complaint
Mr As complaint about Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) relates to the redemption of his 
mortgage account.
What happened
At the relevant time, Mr A was going through a marital dispute with his wife which involved 
their former matrimonial home (FMH), upon which there was a mortgage to BOS in their joint 
names. BOS knew of the dispute and that his wife remained living in the property. Mr A and 
his children had moved in with his parents. A marital dispute marker was placed onto the 
account, which Mr A understood meant that he would be notified of any significant activity on 
the account.
In March 2020 the Court ordered the sale of the FMH although Mr A appealed that Order. 
Arrears began building up on the mortgage from May 2020 as neither Mr A nor his wife were 
making the monthly payments to the mortgage account. In December 2020 Mr A instructed a 
barrister to represent him in relation to his appeal, although that appeal was not heard before 
the property was sold on 15 March 2021.
On 12 March 2021 Mr As wife, through her solicitors, requested a mortgage redemption 
statement for the 15 March. BOS issued the redemption statement to both Mr A and his 
wifes solicitor on the same day. Mr As wife redeemed the mortgage on the 15 March when 
the property was sold.
Mr A complains that BOS failed to notify him of his wifes redemption request and had they 
done so he would have been able to stop the sale going ahead due to the pending appeal. 
As the sale did go ahead he complains that this has made him and his children homeless 
and caused him a lot of stress.
BOS didnt uphold Mr As complaint as they said that whilst they acknowledged there was a 
marital marker on the file, what that meant was that consent was required from both parties 
for any significant steps, such as a product transfer, additional borrowing or adding or 
removing a party to the account. They did not agree that it meant they needed consent from 
both parties to provide a redemption statement where the request came from the joint 
account holder. And, they had provided Mr A with a redemption statement. BOS also said 
that as the mortgage was in substantial arrears in any event, had the property not been sold 
their next step would have been to take possession proceedings.
Mr A was unhappy with BOS final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that BOS hadnt done anything 
wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. 
Mr A didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the background information it is clear that there was an Order from the Court in March 
2020 that the FMH be sold. Mr A it appears, lodged an appeal against that Order, but the 
appeal had not, by the time of the sale, been heard. No further Order was made suspending 
the Order for sale pending the appeal. The sale has therefore proceeded in line with the 
Order of the Court.
Mr As complaint centres upon whether BOS acted correctly in the light of the marital marker 
on the account which BOS accept was there. I think it is important to emphasise that the 
marital marker by itself could never have the effect of being able to stop the sale of the FMH 
nor indeed the provision of a redemption statement. 
So, the issue then becomes whether Mr As wifes request for information  the redemption 
figure - becomes a significant event and if it was, did BOS act appropriately in line with the 
marker. 
BOS have explained that the marker did not mean that consent from all parties to the 
mortgage was required before providing the redemption statement. I think that must be right 
since the provision of information, to which Mr As wife was entitled as a party to the 
mortgage, cannot in my view be regarded as a significant event. I accept that requesting a 
redemption figure can indicate that there may be a sale shortly, but even in those 
circumstances, BOS would not have had the power to stop it. That power would only lay with 
the Court.
The effect of this is that Mr As wife was quite properly able to request a redemption 
statement and redeem the mortgage without BOS being required to get Mr As consent. 
However, even though they did not need to notify Mr A of the request for the redemption 
statement  it not being a significant event  BOS did issue a redemption statement to him at 
the same time as they issued one to his wifes solicitors. He was therefore on notice that one 
had been requested. I wouldnt expect and nor do I think it reasonable for BOS to have 
telephoned Mr A when they received his wifes solicitors request for the redemption 
statement, as a written notification is reasonable. 
So, I cant agree with Mr A that BOS has broken its promise to notify him. I also cant agree 
with Mr A that he would have been able to stop the sale going through. The reason I say that 
is because there is no evidence that the Court either reversed the Order for sale or 
suspended it. Mr As wife was therefore able to proceed with the sale regardless of what Mr 
A wanted.
So, although Mr A will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say BOS has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. BOS received a request 
for a redemption figure and issued one to both parties to the mortgage account. They then 
received funds redeeming the mortgage following the same of the property which they were 
powerless to stop. The terms and conditions of the mortgage specifically provide that the 
mortgage must be redeemed once a sale has taken place.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman