DRN-3109235
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Miss T payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out to cover a mortgage. 
Nationwide says the mortgage started in November 1985 and that there were further 
advances in November 1994, October 1996, August 2001 and February 2006. I can see that 
Miss T signed an application form for PPI on 5 June 2002. Nationwide says the PPI first 
started in July 2002 and was extended in 2006, around the time of a further advance. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Miss T says that, as she remembers it, I was lead to believe that PPI was an essential part 
to securing a mortgage with Nationwide and, It wasnt made clear to me that my PPI policy 
was optional.
The PPI was originally sold in 2002  so thats almost 20 years ago, and I wouldnt expect 
someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago. And, although I cant be 
sure, I think its likely that Miss T hasnt remember everything that happened. It looks as 
though the PPI was taken out sometime after the further advance of 2001. So its unlikely 
Miss T would have thought she had to take the PPI to get the mortgage. 
And, even if the two things had happened together, it would be very difficult to prove that 
Nationwide made Miss T think she had to take PPI. It wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this 
happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. As a general principle of 
fairness, where someone has said another person (or organisation) has done something 
wrong, there needs to be reasonable evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt 
usually be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it 
was such a long time ago. But I dont have that evidence. And the documents Ive seen do at 
least present the PPI as a choice. 
Its unlikely Nationwide recommended the PPI to Miss T, in the sense of saying it had 
assessed her individual needs and circumstances and was advising her that PPI would be 
suitable for her. Instead, it would have been for Miss T to decide whether it was suitable and 
worth the cost  or whether she wanted to have no PPI or to shop elsewhere.  
But, even if Nationwide had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in her circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a Mortgage 
can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as 
Miss T received full employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time 
when she would need to fall back on any savings or other means she may have had for 
paying the Mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Miss T in a more secure 
position, if shed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And 
Ive not been told anything to suggest she couldnt afford the PPI when she took it out.
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether or not Miss T took the PPI. I say this because, in her circumstances, 
its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Miss T would have been affected by any of these. And shed be paying for it 
monthly, so she could cancel it at any time without further cost if her situation changed.
So Ive not found that the PPI was mis-sold. But Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of 
the PPI to Miss T because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss T about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Miss T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Miss T.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Miss T any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman