DRN-1719471
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly 
refused to pay her claim under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S took out a life time policy for her dog with Red Sands in September 2018. 
Unfortunately in May 2019, her dog was diagnosed with hepatitis/pancreatitis. So she made 
a claim for the vet fees of over £1,200. 
Red Sands asked for the vet history and decided since her dog had bouts of enteritis before 
the policy began, the hepatitis and pancreatitis were linked to that and therefore it declined 
to pay the claim as it was then deemed a pre-existing condition. It also imposed a 
retrospective exclusion on the policy for all digestive disorders.
Mrs S complained but Red Sands wouldnt change its stance. So she brought her complaint 
to us.
The investigator was of the view it should be upheld and the retrospective exclusion 
removed. Red Sands didnt agree so Mrs Ss complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Red Sands policy in common with many other pet policies doesnt provide any cover for pre-
existing conditions. Thats not unusual or indeed unfair. The policy condition defines a pre-
existing condition as:
Any claim or costs for or relating to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an accident, 
injury or illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the commencement 
date of the policy or within 14 days of the commencement date.
Mrs Ss dog was diagnosed and treated for hepatitis and pancreatitis in May 2019. From the 
vet history Red Sands noted her dog suffered and was treated by the vet for ongoing 
vomiting in May 2016, diarrhoea in August 2018 and diarrhoea/enteritis in August 2018 and 
again in October 2018. It therefore decided her dog developed hepatitis and pancreatitis in 
May 2019 due to these pre-existing conditions. 
However there is no vet evidence to show these were linked in any real way, either from Mrs 
Ss own vet (as Red Sands didnt ask her vet) or any vet practitioner instructed by Red 
Sands. Like the investigator, I consider sickness and diarrhoea episodes in dogs to be a 
relatively common occurrence. Further considering there was no vet attendance for either of 
these issues since October 2018, and the issues of hepatitis and pancreatitis are very 
serious and acute illnesses, it doesnt seem probable in the absence of any cogent vet 
expert evidence that these bouts of sickness and diarrhoea were coherently linked to the 
severe onset of hepatitis and pancreatitis in May 2019. 
Consequently I dont consider Red Sands refusal to pay Mrs Ss claim was reasonable in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint on the basis of any pre-existing condition.
I also dont consider it reasonable to impose a retrospective exclusion for all digestive 
issues. Red Sands relies on the presumptions it details on the policy one of which is that the 
pet doesnt suffer from any pre-existing conditions. However had it asked Mrs S before she 
bought her policy if her dog suffered from any pre-existing conditions and she didnt answer 
that correctly and truthfully then I think a retrospective exclusion could have been imposed.
But as Mrs S wasnt asked this directly and therefore didnt misrepresent the issue, I dont 
consider it fair to impose such a wide-ranging retrospective exclusion. This is because had 
she known at the time she bought her policy, that she would have no cover for anything to 
do with the digestive tract of her dog, she may well have decided not to buy the policy at all.
My final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the following:
Pay Mrs Ss claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions to include 
the payment by Mrs S of the excess and co-payment.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date Mrs S paid her vet to the date it 
refunds her. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Mrs S for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman