DRN-2604802
The complaint
Ms B complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) put pressure on her 
to increase her monthly payments when it wrote to her.
What happened
Ms B has an account with Cabot relating to an outstanding debt on a current account. Cabot 
purchased the debt from the original lender in September 2010. Ms B has been making 
monthly payments towards the debt ever since. Firstly, through a debt management 
company, but since September 2019 Ms B has had an arrangement with Cabot directly. The 
agreement in place is that Ms B makes a monthly contribution of £50, paid by direct debit, 
towards her debt.
Ms B has always maintained her payments, and in October 2020 Cabot wrote to her saying 
it had conducted a review of her account and would like her to increase her monthly 
repayment to £64.23 in order to help her balance sooner.
Ms B was upset that Cabot had reviewed her account without her input and complained to 
Cabot, she felt it hadnt taken her personal circumstances into account  such as the fact 
she had been furloughed due to the global pandemic Covid-19 and had been making 
sacrifices to be able to keep up with her payments.
Cabot looked into matters for Ms B but it didnt uphold her complaint, in summary it said:
The letter was only a suggestion and not a demand for Ms B to increase her 
payments, and it had no intention of making the change without discussing it with 
her.
It had a regulatory responsibility to ensure payment plans are affordable and 
sustainable, and it also wanted to see how it could support to clear her account in a 
reasonable timeframe.
It had additional processes in place to support individuals facing difficulties due to 
Covid-19 and would be happy to assist her further with this if needed.
Ms B remained unhappy with this response and so brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into Ms Bs complaint but didnt uphold it, they said:
Cabot was in line with regulatory obligations when it offered Ms B the option to increase her 
monthly payments to help her clear the outstanding balance quicker and save some money. 
Ms B disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Ms B Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator here 
and for broadly the same reasons.
Id like to take this opportunity to assure Ms B although Ive read and considered the whole 
file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, 
its not because I havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.
Having seen the letter Cabot sent Ms B in October, I dont agree that it was sent with the 
intention to apply pressure to her to increase her monthly payments. But was sent with the 
intention of giving Ms B the option to increase her payments and reduce the length of time it 
will take for Ms B to clear the debt. The letter says: To set up your suggested plan.  And 
goes on to explain it can be done online or over the phone. There is nothing in the letter that 
says Ms B must do this or that any change will take place if she doesnt do it. 
Cabot sent a similar letter to Ms B in June 2020 where it offered her a reduced settlement if 
she made a lump sum payment. Ms B has said she didnt contact Cabot to discuss this as it 
wasnt something she could afford at the time. Nothing happened when she didnt contact 
Cabot and her existing arrangement with it stayed the same. So, Im satisfied it wouldve 
been reasonable for her to assume that if she did nothing following the October letter things 
would again stay the same.
Ms B has told us she thinks it was unfair of Cabot to conduct a review of her account without 
her involvement as it wouldnt be aware of her personal circumstances at that time. Cabot is 
free to make its own decisions on how it internally reviews the accounts it holds and has told 
us when doing this it considers information it has about an individual as well as information 
from the credit bureaux. I agree with Ms B there will be other information that Cabot wont be 
aware of when conducting reviews in this way, but I dont think that makes them unfair, so 
long as Cabot doesnt make or enforce changes without engaging with the individual 
concerned. So, it follows I dont find it has done anything wrong here.
Ms B has said that she has been furloughed through the Covid-19 pandemic and has had to 
make sacrifices to be able to make her payments to Cabot. I cant see that prior to Ms Bs 
raising a complaint with Cabot, that it was aware of this, but it has said since becoming 
aware that it would be happy to assist her if she is facing difficulties because of this. This is 
what I would expect Cabot to be doing in the circumstances and would advise Ms B to take 
advantage of this offer if she feels it would help her.
Overall, Cabot has been willing to engage with her to find the most sustainable and quickest 
way for Ms B to clear her account balance. And has offered to assist her if she is having 
financial difficulties due to the Coivd-19 pandemic and being furloughed. So I dont find that it 
has treated Ms B unfairly when dealing with her account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman