DRN-3875478
The complaint
Mr G complains that U K Insurance Limited  trading as Privilege Insurance (UKI) have 
unfairly registered claims on his home insurance policy and declined to renew it.
What happened
Mr G had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by UKI. In 2021 it wrote to him to 
say it wouldnt be able to renew his policy due to a change in its underwriting criteria. It said 
this was due to the size of the property. 
Mr G subsequently attempted to get cover elsewhere but in doing so found that there were a 
number of claims registered against the policy with UKI that he didnt think were correct. He 
said this meant the premiums offered for a new policy were higher than they should have 
been.
Between July 2021 and August 2022 Mr G made a number of complaints about the claims 
and UKIs decision not to renew the policy. He said one of the claims was due to damage 
caused to the gate of his property by a delivery driver and the delivery company had 
accepted liability and agreed to cover the cost of the damage, so this shouldnt be registered 
as a claim. He also said that for another claim he had been incorrectly led to believe it was 
recorded against his home emergency policy rather than his main home insurance policy. 
And the amount of work carried out was unnecessary which inflated the claim cost. Finally 
he didnt think it was fair that UKI werent offering to renew his policy.
UKI responded to his complaints most recently in its final response of August 2022. In 
relation to the claims it said that while it had pursued the delivery company for the costs in 
court it had been unable to recover these, and it was a valid claim. And it said the claim for 
the pipes was above the value and remit of the home emergency policy so could have been 
covered under that but it was satisfied it was clear a claim was being made at the time. So it 
said it was reasonable that these were recorded as claims.
Further, it said its underwriting criteria no longer covered Mr Gs property and this remained 
the case in 2022. It said this was due to its size and not the previous claims. 
Mr G was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he thought the claims were recorded correctly and UKI had provided evidence that its 
underwriting criteria didnt cover Mr Gs property so it had acted fairly by declining to renew 
the policy.
Unhappy with this, Mr G asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Gs complaint, Ill explain why.
Incorrect claim records
Mr G is unhappy that hes had claims recorded on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE). This is a database where insurers record any claims or notifications made against a 
policy. 
Mr G has said that he doesnt think two claims should have been recorded against him. As 
CUE is designed to accurately record claims made, in order to agree that these claims 
should be removed Id need to be persuaded that the record is inaccurate.
The first was a claim against a delivery driver, where the company had accepted fault and 
agreed to pay when the claim was made. While I appreciate Mr G is frustrated that the 
delivery company initially accepted liability and said they would cover the cost of the 
damage, this doesnt mean the record of the claim on CUE is inaccurate. Mr G made a claim 
and UKI paid it and this is what has been recorded on the database, so I cant say this is an 
inaccurate record.
Mr G has said that he was advised to make a claim by UKI as he was going to take legal 
action against the delivery company instead. While I dont doubt Mr Gs account, regardless 
of his intentions to begin with, a claim was made on the policy. And therefore its right that 
this is recorded on CUE.
He's also said it was due to UKIs inaction that the delivery company have not reimbursed 
the claim costs. UKI has provided information about the steps its taken in pursuing the costs 
from the company  and its in its interest to do so. So Ive seen nothing to persuade me that 
this wasnt pursued. However regardless Mr G made a claim on his policy and this was 
recorded on CUE, so I dont agree this record should be amended.
The second claim Mr G is unhappy with is in relation to a leaking underground pipe. Hes 
said that he originally made a claim under the home emergency policy and had been led to 
believe the entire work was covered by this, rather than his main home policy. 
The cover for home emergency is for repairing emergencies to ensure these are addressed 
in the short term, rather than carrying out larger long term repairs. And the policy wording 
reflects this stating:
If there is an emergency in your home, when you call us: 
 we will tell you what you can do in order to protect yourself and your home 
 we will send an authorised repairer to your home 
 we will pay up to £500 (including VAT) for each emergency assistance call out to cover the 
cost of:  the call out  labour at your home  parts
Ive listened to the call where Mr G registered the claim and during this call there was no 
mention of home emergency cover. In fact Mr G explained that he had already made the 
leak safe and now it was a repair that needed completing. The call handler said that the 
claim would be assessed as to whether it would be covered under the policy and if it was an 
excess would be taken. And Mr G said he would assess whether it was worth claiming once 
he knew what the extent of the problem was.
From this I dont think Mr G made it clear that he only wished to claim if it was under the 
home emergency policy. And from considering the terms of the policy and the details of the conversation had, I think it was clear enough that the claim would be registered against the 
main policy. 
So as this claim was fairly registered against Mr Gs home insurance policy, its fair that it is 
registered on CUE. 
Mr G has also raised concerns about the cost of the repairs to the pipe. The repairs carried 
out were based on an assessment by UKIs contracted expert and Ive seen no evidence 
that the repairs werent required. So Im not persuaded that the claim costs were inflated. 
Policy renewal
Mr G has also complained that UKI has declined to offer a renewal of his policy. Hes said 
that he thinks its because of his claim history. 
It isnt for this service to tell insurers which risks they should insure, thats a commercial 
decision and is for it to decide. But we would want to ensure UKI had acted fairly when 
making this decision and treated Mr G in the same way it would treat any other customer in 
his position. 
UKI has provided details of its underwriting criteria and I can see that it has made a fair 
decision based on its updated criteria in relation to the size of Mr Gs property. So I cant say 
its acted unfairly by declining to renew the policy as it is now outside of its criteria. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman