The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a joint mortgage with BOS in 1988. At the same time they took out a 
regular premium MPPI policy in Mr Rs sole name to cover their repayments if he was unable 
to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because he didnt think 
there was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional and 
thought that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr and Mrs R. 
Mr and Mrs R disagree. They say they didnt know they had the policy otherwise they 
wouldve claimed on it when Mr R was unemployed. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
The sale took place over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little 
information available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what 
information I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOS needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs R that they had a choice in taking the policy. Mr 
and Mrs R havent provided any real specific details about the sale which is understandable 
considering the amount of time that has passed. And BOS havent given us any of the 
documents from the time of the sale. So I dont know exactly what was discussed about 
MPPI or how it was presented.
From what Mr and Mrs R have told us the policy was sold during a meeting. I think its likely 
MPPI was discussed because the policy was taken in Mr Rs name only to cover a joint 
mortgage. I think this suggests a discussion was had about their circumstances and a choice 
was made about who would be covered. I understand Mrs R was entitled to a good level of 
DRN-1862297sick pay in a secure industry which may explain why her income wasnt covered by the 
policy. 
So on balance, I think BOS wouldve made Mr and Mrs R aware that MPPI was optional and 
that Mr and Mrs R had MPPI because they freely chose to take it rather than anything else. 
Mr R has provided evidence to show at some point in 1993 and 1994 he was able to claim 
job seekers allowance. He says this proves that they didnt know they had the policy because 
they wouldve claimed on it if they had. But all I think this shows me is that he was in receipt 
of job seekers allowance and might have had an opportunity to claim on the policy  not that 
the policy was mis-sold. And there  are a number of reasons why he might not of claimed 
such as leaving a job voluntarily, or just simply not remembering he  had the policy.
Ive not seen enough to say that they werent given a choice or that they didnt agree to buy 
it.
To put Mr and Mrs R in the best possible position Im treating the sale as if BOS advised 
them to take the policy. What this means is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs R could make an 
informed choice about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend 
MPPI that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Rs needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs R for the following reasons:
Mr R was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
Mr R says he wouldve received some sick pay and had savings they could use to 
make their repayments if he couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of 
any work benefits and savings and for potentially longer, covering their mortgage 
payments for up to 24 months if they were unable to work due to accident or sickness 
or if Mr R lost his job. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs R in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs R wouldve been interested in protecting them.
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs R at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy they could cancel it.
 
I also need to consider whether BOS gave Mr and Mrs R information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if BOS did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that 
the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and Mrs R has told us about their 
circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy if theyd been given all the proper information.
So this means Mr and Mrs R arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by BOS.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman