DRN-3318995
The complaint
Mrs A complaints about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) handling of claim 
made under her contents policy. Mrs A is represented by her daughter, Ms A. Any 
references to RSA include its agents.
What happened
Mrs A had some jewellery at home. It was stored out of sight and shes said it was usually 
worn at important family occasions. In June 2019, a member of Mrs As family noticed the 
jewellery was missing. Mrs As daughter, Ms A, logged a claim with their broker and the 
police. There was some confusion on the part of the broker as to which insurance company 
provided Mrs As contents insurance. 
This was clarified in June 2020, and the claim was correctly logged with RSA. In May 2021, 
RSA told Ms A it wouldnt cover the claim. It said the policy didnt provide cover for items 
stole by family members or domestic employees. It reached this conclusion having relied on 
the report to the police given by Ms A, where she apparently indicated she thought it most 
likely Mrs As cleaner had stolen the jewellery. 
Ms A was unhappy with this and complained to RSA. It responded, saying it wouldnt change 
its mind on the outcome of the claim. Ms A referred this matter to us where it was considered 
by one of our investigators. She said when considering the policy terms, she didnt think 
RSA had unfairly declined the claim. As Ms A didnt agree, this matter has been referred to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms A has told us shes intending to contact RSA to put forward other possible 
scenarios for the theft of the jewellery. She feels these have not been considered. I should 
be clear that my decision focuses on RSAs handling of the claim. Its not for me  or anyone 
at this service  to decide how or when the jewellery was stolen. That is a matter for the 
police.
I accept that as part of bringing this claim, Ms A says this claim was initially considered by 
another insurer (who her broker wrongly thought provided cover for the claim). Ms A says 
this insurer was going to overturn its decision to decline the claim. And while that may be the 
case, I cant consider the actions of another insurer, only those of RSA. Ive considered if 
RSA has considered the claim in line with the policy terms. 
Ive only considered RSAs response to the suggestion the jewellery was most likely stolen 
by Mrs As cleaner because this was what the police were told by Mrs A and Ms A when 
asked how they thought the theft occurred. Having considered RSAs handling of this claim. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A, but Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and 
for the same reasons.
RSA said it had considered the suggestion the locks had been picked and jewellery taken 
that way. RSA says there was no evidence of forced entry or the locks being picked or and it 
thought the jewellery was stolen this way. In declining the claim, it placed most weight on the 
information in the police report. This is because the information given in the police report 
was done so just after the jewellery was found to be missing. 
RSA are relying on the information given by Mrs A and Ms A about what they thought was 
the likely cause of the theft to be at the time the jewellery was found to be missing. I agree 
information given at the time the theft was discovered is more likely to be more persuasive 
than later consideration as to how the jewellery might have been stolen.
RSA is relying on the following policy terms to decline the claim:
What is not insured
8. Theft or attempted theft; 
by You or any member of Your Family or domestic employees.
And on balance, I think RSA has done so reasonably. The original and earliest accounts of 
how the jewellery was stolen suggest it was most likely taken by a cleaner. Ms A says the 
police asked if they had a cleaner, not that they suggested the cleaner stole the jewellery. 
However, the policy terms are clear that a theft carried out by a family member of domestic 
employee isnt covered by the policy. Therefore, as I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
the theft was carried out another way, Im satisfied RSA has applied the policy terms fairly. I 
wont be recommending that RSA cover this claim.
I appreciate the loss of jewellery with sentimental value is upsetting for Mrs A and her family. 
Ms A has recently told us that shell contact RSA to let it know of other scenarios she has 
thought of about how the theft could have occurred and she thinks it should consider. I cant 
see this was considered in this complaint. If Mrs A or Ms A remain unhappy with RSAs 
handling of the newer suggestions they put forward, then they can raise a new complaint 
and refer it to this service. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman