DRN-4005066
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that ReAssure Life Limited didnt make them aware of changes to 
the sum assured of their whole of life critical illness policy.
Mr and Mrs B are using a representative to bring this complaint. For ease I will refer to all 
actions as being those of Mr and Mrs B.
What happened
In early 2022 Mr B suffered a heart attack and made a claim under the policy. 
The claim was agreed but the benefit paid was much less than Mr and Mrs B were expecting 
so they complained. 
ReAssure said they had issued review letters in 2019 and 2020 about the policy. The 2020 
review letter explained that the current premium wasnt enough to maintain the sum assured 
and provided options about moving forward. And because they didnt hear back from 
Mr and Mrs B they applied the default option which was to keep the same premium but 
reduce the sum assured. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with this saying they didnt receive those letters so brought their 
complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into what happened and thought 
ReAssure hadnt done anything wrong. They said that the review letters had been sent to the 
address ReAssure had on file for Mr and Mrs B and copies had also been sent to their 
financial adviser. Because ReAssure didnt hear back from Mr and Mrs B, and nor was any 
of the post returned, the default option was applied.
Mr and Mrs B said just because the letters were sent doesnt mean they were received and 
so they didnt have the opportunity to respond to them. Because an agreement couldnt be 
reached the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me how strongly Mr and Mrs B feel about what happened. I want to assure them 
that I have read and considered all the information provided. Where the information about 
what happened is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, Ive come to a 
decision based on the balance of probabilities about what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
ReAssure say they sent several review letters about the policy:
- In February 1999 the letter said that no changes were currently needed and the 
premiums would meet the cost of cover for the next year. 
- In February 2020 the letter said that the premiums no longer met the cost of cover 
and some options were provided. If ReAssure didnt hear back from Mr and Mrs B 
they would apply the default option of keeping the premium the same and reduce the 
sum assured.
- In May 2020 the letter confirmed a reduction in the sum assured had been applied as 
they hadnt heard back from Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt receive any of these letters. At that time they were living at a 
different address to the one held by ReAssure and had a postal redirection in place.
In these circumstances I need to consider whether ReAssure did what I would expect them 
to do to let Mr and Mrs B now about the reviews of their policy. And looking at what 
happened I think they did.  
Im satisfied ReAssure sent the letters to the address they had on file at the time and Ive not 
seen any evidence of post being returned. I cant say why Mr and Mrs B say the letters 
werent received. Reassure say a copy of the review letters were also sent to Mr and Mrs Bs 
financial adviser. By sending the letters ReAssure have met their obligations.
ReAssure didnt hear back from Mr and Mrs B so reduced the sum assured as the review 
letter said they would. So I think theyve acted fairly and reasonably in this situation. 
When dealing with our Investigator Mr and Mrs B said they dont know what they wouldve 
done had they received the letters but feel the options have been taken away. Its noted that 
in a previous review of 2017 Mr and Mrs B chose to reduce the sum assured rather than 
increase the premiums. I dont think coming to a hypothetical decision about what might 
have happened is needed here as Im satisfied ReAssure sent the letters and therefore done 
all they needed to do in making Mr and Mrs B aware of what was happening.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied ReAssure treated 
Mr and Mrs B fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman