DRN-3944527
The complaint
Mr A complains Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) declined his mobile phone 
insurance claim. 
All references to Assurant include its agents. 
What happened
Mr A had gadget insurance policy with Assurant through his bank. In November 2022 Mr A 
made a claim for his mobile phone on the policy. 
Mr A told Assurant he put his phone in his bag with his laptop and his tablet and he placed 
the bag in the boot of his car. He says he parked outside his place of work for a few minutes 
and when he returned his bag was gone.
Mr A says he locked his vehicle with the remote fob before going into his workplace and was 
only gone for approximately five minutes. When he returned to his vehicle the boot had been 
broken into and the bag with his phone in it was gone. Mr A says he noted some scratches 
on the lock of the boot. 
Mr A reported the incident to the police. And he contacted his insurer and provided it with the 
crime reference number and details of the incident. In that same call Mr A was told his claim 
had been declined and he would receive a letter explaining why within a few days.
Mr A wasnt happy with Assurants decision to decline the claim and so he made a 
complaint. 
Assurant said in the call where Mr A reported the incident he said he left the phone in his 
bag in the back of the car and had gone into work. Assurant said Mr A told the telephone 
operative that he wasnt sure if he locked the car with the remote key fob. He also noticed 
the boot lock had scratches on it. Assurant said it didnt think the scratches were related to 
the incident. Assurant said its policy doesnt cover circumstances where care hasnt been 
taken of the device. And so it said the claim was correctly declined and the complaint wasnt 
upheld.  
Mr A didnt agree and so he referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into things for him. He said based on the information provided he thought Assurant had 
acted unfairly by declining the claim. He said Mr A hadnt acted recklessly and his testimony 
has remained consistent in that he locked the car. And so he recommended the complaint 
be upheld and Assurant assess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. 
Assurant said in the initial call to report the incident Mr A said he thought he locked the car 
but since the car was unlocked when he returned to it he wasnt sure. It said the first version 
of events a customer provides when logging a claim is most likely to be correct, and so 
Assurant believe Mr A didnt lock his car and therefore didnt take care of his items. Assurant 
also said Mr A had failed to prove that an insured event occurred. 
Because Assurant didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen I am upholding Mr As complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules require insurers to handle a claim promptly and fairly. And they 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Assurant has relied on the following term to decline the claim;
We will always take into account where you are and what you are doing when we assess 
whether you have taken care of your phone. If we believe you have not taken care of your 
mobile phone, and have knowingly taken a risk with it, we may decline your claim.
The policy defines taking care of your mobile as, Not knowingly leaving your mobile phone 
somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or damaged, just think would you leave your wallet or 
purse there?
If you need to leave your mobile phone somewhere then we expect you to lock it away out of 
sight if at all possible. 
Assurant has said Mr A hasnt taken care of his phone. But he has locked it away out of sight 
in his boot which is what the policy says it expects. I havent seen anything which persuades 
me Mr A has behaved in a way that means he has not taken care of his phone, or knowingly 
taken a risk with it, using Assurants definition of taking care.
While Assurant isnt directly accusing Mr A of fraud, it does appear to be relying on a fraud 
exclusion within its policy terms.
Assurant says the reason it declined Mr As claim was because he gave two conflicting 
accounts about whether he locked his car. I have carefully considered what Mr A told 
Assurant about the incident and listened to both calls. 
When Mr A called to report the theft he was asked whether he locked the car. Mr A says he 
locked the car using the fob and isnt sure how the car came to be unlocked when he 
returned. 
In a subsequent call Assurant spoke to Mr A again and he said the bag was in the boot and 
he had locked the car. So Im satisfied Mr As account of the incident remained consistent. 
Assurant says there was no damage to the boot so it cant understand how a thief has 
managed to gain access to the boot without causing any damage to the vehicle. Assurant 
believes its more likely the car was left unlocked. But I havent seen any evidence to support 
this, and I dont think its fair to expect Mr A to explain how the theft occurred. 
Im satisfied Mr A has provided Assurant with enough information to support his claim. I think 
his account of what happened has been consistent. So I dont think it was reasonable for 
Assurant to reject Mr As claim. Putting things right
I direct Assurant to reconsider Mr As claim under the remaining terms of the policy. It 
declined Mr As claim because it said he failed to take care of his phone as per the terms of 
the policy. I decided that it wasnt fair to do so and that means Assurant cant rely on this 
same reason to decline Mr As claim. It must reconsider the claim under the remaining policy 
terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold Mr As complaint and Assurant General 
Insurance Limited must;
Consider Mr As claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman