DRN-3384652
The complaint
Mr T has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) increased the interest 
rate on his overdraft to 40%. Mr T says that when he agreed to upgrade his account to a fee-
paying Advantage Gold packaged bank account, he was told that as long as he kept the 
account and paid the fee the arrangement would be perpetual.
To resolve his account, Mr T wants NatWest to return his account to how it was before the 
overdraft interest rate increased. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that NatWests decision 
to increase the overdraft interest rate was unfair or unreasonable.
Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the matter to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive use that to help me decide this complaint. And having weighed everything up I dont 
think that what NatWest did was unfair or unreasonable.
Increase in interest rate
To provide some context, following a review of the way banks charge for overdrafts and the 
way overdrafts are used, the financial regulator issued new rules for overdrafts, which came 
into effect on 6 April 2020. Since these rules were announced, most banks - including 
NatWest - increased interest rates on overdrafts to around 40% from March or April 2020. 
However, due to the impact of Covid-19, the regulator introduced guidance to firms requiring 
the mitigation of these changes. And as part of this guidance, banks were instructed to 
ensure that customers pay no more for using an overdraft  as a result of any new interest 
rates  than they would have done under any prior charging structure - until July 2020 at the 
earliest.
And deciding how much to charge its customers when using an overdraft is an exercise of 
NatWests commercial judgement. So from the outset Im unable to say that increasing the 
overdraft interest rate to around 40% (alongside removing overdraft usage charges) on its 
accounts is unfair or unreasonable.
Changing features on the Advantage Gold (later Select Platinum) account
I understand that Mr T believes this increase in the overdraft interest rate should not apply to 
him specifically, because he says he agreed to upgrade his account to a fee-paying 
Advantage Gold account in June 2000. And he says one of the features of the account at the 
time was that it provided a reduced interest rate on a £5,000 overdraft. 
Mr T says that when he agreed to this account, he was told that it included preferential 
interest rates on overdrafts and as long as I kept the account, paid the fees that the 
arrangement was perpetual.
I have first considered whether NatWest was able to change the account cost and features. 
And from looking at the account terms and conditions from when the Advantage Gold 
account was sold to Mr T, I can see that they did allow NatWest to make changes to the cost 
and features of the account, should NatWest deem it necessary. Indeed, I can see that over 
the 20+ years Mr T has held the account, NatWest has changed the cost and features 
(including the preferential interest rate applied to the overdraft) many times.
Looking at what NatWest has said in its final response letter it seems that NatWest concede 
that Mr T mightve been given wrong information about the overdraft benefit during the sale. 
However, had things gone as they shouldve and it had been made clear to Mr T that 
NatWest could in fact change or remove the features on the account, Im not persuaded that 
Mr T wouldve, in any event, acted any differently.
The reason why I say this is because firstly, Mr T was clearly attracted to the features of the 
account as they were at the time. So I find it unlikely that he wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to it, had he known that the benefits could in fact change at some point in the 
future. I also say this because Mr T went on to keep the account for 20+ years, even though 
many of the features and cost of the account did change over the years he held it, including 
the preferential interest rate that was applied to his overdraft. And it looks like NatWest was 
notifying Mr T of these changes, as I can see that it sent him a large number of letters and 
emails about the various changes being made to the account - including the increase in the 
overdraft interest rate to 39.49% - in the mailing history audit trail that NatWest has provided 
for Mr Ts account.
I appreciate that Mr T is now unhappy that the overdraft benefits no longer exist on his 
account, as they were withdrawn by NatWest, and he now has to pay an increased rate of 
interest when using his overdraft. But overall, I think he still wouldve agreed to the account 
even if it had been made clear that the features could change. And Im satisfied that the 
terms and conditions of the packaged account did allow NatWest to make such changes to 
the account, when it was deemed necessary. And there is evidence to show that NatWest 
did contact Mr T to inform him when changes were being made to the account, so he was 
free to change his account, if he was not happy with the changes being made. And, as 
outlined above, Im also unable to say that NatWest was being unfair or unreasonable by 
choosing to remove overdraft usage fees and instead increase interest rates on overdrafts to 
39.49%.
Therefore, whilst I understand Mr Ts frustration, taking everything into account, Im not able 
ask NatWest to reinstate the overdraft benefits that Mr T previously enjoyed on his account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman