DRN-3269042
The complaint
Ms H complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided a loan that 
was unaffordable. 
What happened
Ms H took out a loan with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Date taken Loan 
amountTerm - Monthly 
repaymentDate paid
September 
2019£350 18 months £79.99 1 March 2021
The loan purpose was recorded as home improvements on the application. 
When Ms H complained to Loans 2 Go it didnt uphold her complaint so she brought her 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that 
Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided the loan. Our adjudicator recommended that the 
complaint should be upheld and set out directions indicating what Loans 2 Go should do to 
put things right. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said its lending decision was fair 
as Ms H would have still been left with around £122 after paying for this loan on top of her 
other monthly outgoings. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. 
But reasonable and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a 
borrower can sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses 
the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also require the lender to 
find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall 
financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Loans 2 Go asked Ms H about her income and expenses  including what she spent on her 
credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand Ms Hs credit history. 
Loans 2 Go verified that Ms Hs minimum monthly pay was around £1,207. After reviewing 
the information it had gathered, Loans 2 Go boosted the monthly expenditure figure that 
Ms H had declared and calculated that she would need to spend approximately £1,005 in 
total each month. It also took into account nationally available statistics when thinking about 
Ms Hs likely spending and allowed for a buffer of 10% of her verified expenditure to 
account for any fluctuations in her monthly income or expenditure. Based on this, Loans 2 
Go said Ms H shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment on this loan. 
Like our adjudicator I think those checks were broadly proportionate. But despite recording 
information that appeared to show that Ms H had enough spare cash each month to cover 
the loan monthly repayments, I think Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on 
this information. Thats because what Ms H had declared was significantly at odds with what 
Loans 2 Go saw on its credit checks showing Ms Hs credit history. 
Whilst having an impaired credit history wouldnt be unusual for a borrower applying for this 
type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt necessarily be a bar to lending, I dont think 
Loans 2 Go thought carefully enough about what the information it had gathered showed 
about Ms Hs overall financial situation and the likelihood of her being able to pay its loan in 
a sustainable manner. 
Loans 2 Go could see that Ms H had been taking loans (including short-term 
loans) without any break in borrowing since February 2018. And when she applied for this 
loan she already had active loans, including one short-term loan taken the month before and 
two unsecured loans taken out just a couple of months earlier. 
She also had three active store/credit cards approaching (or in one case just over) the 
account limit. 
It was evident that shed had some payment problems previously with an active county court 
judgement dating back to 2015 showing on her record. 
And I think the fact that Loans 2 Go was able to see that Ms H was already spending almost 
a third of her income just on servicing her debt was itself a clear warning sign of financial 
difficulty  particularly bearing in mind her relatively low income. 
Ive taken into account everything Loans 2 Go has said in response to our adjudicators 
assessment about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully about what 
I think a responsible lender should have made of all this information and in particular 
whether it was enough for Loans 2 Go to make a fair decision to lend, particularly as it 
understood that Ms H intended to spend the money so it was aware this loan was going to 
add to her indebtedness.
I think our adjudicator was right to say that all the indications were that Ms H was 
already struggling financially. To my mind, it shouldve been apparent that Ms H probably didnt have the amount of disposable income that Loans 2 Go calculated - or 
indeed any spare cash, given her over-reliance on taking out expensive credit. 
All the signs were that her finances were, in reality, under significant stress and her 
debt was already unmanageable. I dont think Loans 2 Go was reasonably able to be 
satisfied in these circumstances that Ms H would be able to make its loan repayments 
in a sustainable way. 
Also, bearing in mind the repayment of this loan on top of the credit commitments Loans 2 
Go saw in its credit checks, I think its fair to say that Ms H needed to pay a significant 
portion of her income towards credit. And in my opinion, as a responsible lender Loans 2 
Go shouldve realised that Ms H would likely struggle to repay this loan  especially 
bearing in mind the 18 month loan term.
So, thinking about all the information Loans 2 Go had gathered, I cant reasonably say 
that it made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think 
Loans 2 Go was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable 
for Ms H. And so it shouldnt have provided it and Loans 2 Go needs to put things 
right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms H to repay the capital amount that she borrowed 
because she had the benefit of that lending - but she shouldnt repay more than this. 
Loans 2 Go should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Ms H received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Ms H made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Ms H having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms H bearing in mind the need to 
treat her positively and sympathetically if she still needs further time to pay what she 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Ms Hs credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend this loan. So 
Loans 2 Go should remove any negative information recorded on Ms Hs credit file 
regarding this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Ms H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman