DRN-3225135
The complaint
Ms F has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) acted unfairly by 
continuing to apply changes to her account when she was in financial difficulty.  
What happened
Ms F complained to Nationwide about the excessive charges she was incurring on her 
overdraft when she was in financial difficulty. Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. And as 
Ms F was dis-satisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Ms Fs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Nationwide 
ought to have realised that Ms F was experiencing financial difficulty by 1 October 2019 and 
so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Nationwide disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Nationwide acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees a year following 
Mrs F being granted the overdraft on 1 October 2019. By this point, it ought to have been 
clear that Ms F was in no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable 
period of time. 
By this point, Ms F was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time. Nationwides own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So I think that Ms Fs overdraft usage should have prompted Nationwide to have realised 
that Ms F wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on 
the same terms. As Nationwide didnt react to Ms Fs overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Ms F ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Nationwide 
didnt treat Ms F fairly and she lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong. And this 
means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Fs complaint for Nationwide to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Fs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 1 October 2019 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Nationwide should contact Ms F to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Fs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 1 October 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms F along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Nationwide should remove any adverse information from Ms Fs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Fs complaint. Nationwide Building Society 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman