DRN-4377362
The complaint
Mr Rs complained that one of Sesame Limiteds independent financial advisers (IFA) sold 
him a critical illness policy which wasnt suitable for his needs  so that when he tried to 
make a claim, he didnt have the cover he thought he did.
What happened
Mr R joined the army straight from school and was employed by them throughout his 
medical training.  He intended to serve as an army doctor when this was completed.
While training at a hospital, Mr R attended a presentation given by Sesames IFA.  Mr R 
explained to the IFA that the army provided various benefits.  But he thought it might be 
useful to have a critical illness policy which provided cover for total permanent disability 
(TPD) on an own occupation basis - so he could claim should be unable to continue to 
serve as an army doctor.  
He completed an application form for critical illness cover for a term ending around his 60th 
birthday.  The initial sum assured was £150,000, with the option to increase each year.  The 
policy commenced about three months later.
A number of years later, Mr R started having symptoms of illness that eventually led to his 
being medically discharged from the army in early 2022.  His symptoms didnt lead to 
diagnosis of a particular illness.  So he made a claim under the TPD section of the policy.
The policy underwriter advised Mr R that he couldnt make a claim because his policy only 
covered TPD on a Functional Abilities Tests (FATs) basis  not on an own occupation basis.  
The underwriter told Mr R that they would never have offered own occupation cover to an 
army doctor and that, when theyd advised the IFA of that decision, the IFA had instructed 
them to proceed on a FATs basis.
Mr R complained the IFA hadnt sought his permission to change the basis of the cover and 
had sold him something he knew didnt meet his needs.  Sesame didnt uphold his complaint 
because they said records showed his priority was critical illness cover and the policy Mr R 
was sold was appropriate to this need.  They said theyd found no evidence hed been 
advised the policy would be set up on an own occupation basis.  And that the decision as to 
the basis of cover was the underwriters, not theirs.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Sesames response and brought his complaint to our service.  He 
told us hed never have bought the cover, unless it was on an own occupation basis, as 
other bases were covered by his army benefits.  And he said his occupation was incorrectly 
recorded as being a hospital doctor, who would be joining the army, when he had been an 
army doctor throughout.  
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Sesame didnt need to do any 
more to resolve it.  He was satisfied the recording of Mr Rs occupation was a reasonable 
reflection of his circumstances at the time.  He reviewed the documents from the time of sale 
and saw there was no record of Mr Rs focus on own occupation cover  rather, the focus 
was on critical illness cover  which he had.  And he thought Mr R had enough information to 
make an informed decision about the cover.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.  I know hell be disappointed by my 
decision.  I hope it will help if I explain why Ive made it.
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute.  What I have to decide is what the 
impact of those circumstances was on Mr R.  For me to direct Sesame to do more to resolve 
the complaint, I have to be satisfied not only that their IFA did something wrong, but also that 
what he did impacted negatively on Mr R.
Sesame havent responded to the investigators view.  I assume from that they agree with 
what it contains  including the statement that the IFA had accepted TPD would only be 
available on a FATs basis without notifying Mr R.  Mr Rs position is he shouldnt have done 
that  nor should he have been described as a hospital doctor.  He says those failures mean 
Sesame should pay what the policy would have paid him on an own occupation basis.
I understand why Mr R says that, but I dont agree.  Where we uphold a complaint, our 
decisions aim to put consumers back in the position they would have been had nothing gone 
wrong.  The IFA telling Mr R the basis on which the underwriter was prepared to offer cover 
wouldnt have led to it being offered on a different basis  it would have led either to Mr R 
accepting or declining the cover that was offered.  It wouldnt have led to the claim being 
paid.  So, even if I upheld the complaint, I wouldnt direct Sesame to provide redress that 
way.
Mr R says he would have declined the cover, because his army benefits provided an 
adequate alternative for all options except TPD cover on an own occupation basis.  Ive 
thought very carefully about that.
At my request, the investigator obtained details of Mr Rs army benefits.  The documents    
Mr R sent us show that, if he leaves the army due to ill-health he is entitled to an immediate 
pension and a tax free lump sum of three times the pension.  No figures are given.
Those benefits would be considerable now, given Mr Rs lengthy service.  But when he 
bought the policy, they would have been worth much less.  Im not persuaded by what Ive 
read that  at the time of sale - they were comparable to the benefits of the policy Mr R 
bought.  That, coupled with the notes about Mr Rs needs our investigator referred to, means 
Im not satisfied Mr R would only have bought the policy had it provided TPD cover on an 
own occupation basis.  
Ive also noted the underwriter sent him confirmation the policy commenced in March 2001.  
The confirmation includes a key features document which clearly states TPD is included on 
a FATs basis and doesnt mention own occupation.  And it includes Mr Rs right to cancel 
within the following 14 days if he wants to.  Im satisfied from this document that Mr R was 
advised of the basis of cover and had the chance to cancel without penalty if he decided, 
when he read it, that it didnt meet his needs.Im sorry to give what Im sure will be unwelcome news for Mr R. But, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think Sesame need to do any more to resolve his complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint about Sesame Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman