DRN-2316946
The complaint
Miss D complains that TSB Bank plc wont return money she disputes having withdrawn.
What happened
In February 2020, Miss D withdrew money from her TSB account at a cash ATM. She says 
she first withdrew £300 and then £20, in two separate transactions, TSBs evidence supports 
that this happened at 8.56am and 08.57am. But shes told us her account showed an earlier 
withdrawal, also of £20, at 8.45am. She says this is an error because she didnt make this 
withdrawal. She asks that this £20 is refunded.
Miss D contacted TSB to complain. In February 2020, TSB replied saying that thered been 
no error on the part of TSB. But they told her theyd raise an ATM dispute with the bank 
whose ATM she had used, which meant theyd look to refund the money within forty-eight 
hours unless they required further information.
Eventually, TSB told Miss D that because thered been no error, they wouldnt be refunding 
the £20 she was asking for from the earlier, duplicate transaction. So, in April 2020, Miss D 
brought her complaint to us.
In August 2020, TSB told us that when Miss D claimed thered been a duplicate transaction, 
theyd said shed receive a temporary refund. But when they saw that the two £20 
withdrawals hadnt been made at the same time  which theyd expect if thered been a 
duplicate transaction  they said they didnt think the withdrawal had been duplicated. So 
they needed Miss D to confirm which of the two withdrawals she hadnt received.
Unfortunately, TSB didnt make further contact with Miss D and, because they didnt have 
the clarification they needed, no dispute was raised at the time. And they told us the dispute 
was now out of time. They also pointed out that Miss Ds card had not gone missing.
So, TSB concluded that the decision given in their final response letter was correct. They 
said they thought it more likely than not that Miss D had made three separate withdrawals 
herself and had forgotten exactly what had happened.
In September 2020, TSB explained further that Miss D hadnt contacted them after they 
mentioned raising a dispute and, as they only have 180 days from the transaction date to 
initiate the dispute process, when they did so, it was already a few days too late. While TSB 
acknowledged that the dispute hadnt been raised, they said they thought it more likely than 
not that the outcome would have been that all transactions were correct, because thats what 
the evidence suggested.
In September 2020, our investigator sent out her view. She explained why TSB believed it 
was unlikely that one of the £20 withdrawals had been duplicated. She also said that Miss D 
had changed her version of events, saying the ATM hadnt dispensed the money when shed 
requested it the first time, which was why shed tried to withdraw it again later. But Miss D 
hadnt mentioned this to either TSB or this service when shed initially raised her complaint. 
Our investigator said it was also unclear how anyone else could have had access to Miss 
Ds card and PIN given the series of authentic transactions which occurred immediately 
before and after the disputed transaction. So, she said she wasnt going to uphold Miss Ds 
complaint because she thought it more likely than not that Miss D had made or authorised 
the £20 withdrawal at 8.45am.
Our investigator also addressed Miss Ds complaint about TSBs service. She said that while 
TSB hadnt temporarily refunded her or raised a dispute, TSB had concluded that the 
08.45am withdrawal wasnt a duplicate and that it had been authorised. For this reason, they 
decided not to refund Miss D or take her claim further and the investigator didnt think this 
was unreasonable. While our investigator acknowledged TSB ought to have informed Miss D 
of this and given her the opportunity to respond, she didnt think it would have changed the 
outcome or prejudiced Miss D in any way. She also noted that Miss D never contacted TSB 
to chase the funds or the outcome of her claim and only brought her complaint to us two 
months later.
Miss D responded, saying that TSBs account was wrong.
In October 2020, our investigator responded, saying that shed based her conclusion on the 
evidence available. She also said shed contacted the ATM provider which had confirmed 
there was no problem with the ATM and the money had been dispensed correctly. And she 
repeated that Miss D had offered different accounts of what happened. She asked Miss D 
how she thought it possible that someone could have taken her card and known her PIN, 
carry out the disputed transaction and return the card without Miss D becoming aware.
Miss D was unable to provide clarification but remined unhappy and asked for her case to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, because she didnt agree with our investigators view, the 
case has come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, TSB can only hold Miss D liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that she authorised it. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied by 
the electronic evidence that the TSB have provided - here her account, card and ATM 
records - that Miss Ds own card was used to authenticate the disputed transaction. But the 
regulations relevant to this type of payment say that isnt enough, on its own, to show that 
Miss D authorised it.
So, Ive gone on to consider whether or not Miss D authorised the transaction. On balance, I 
agree with TSB that the evidence supports the proposition that this is more likely than not to 
be the case. I say that for the following reasons:
Ive seen TSBs electronic record of each of the three cash withdrawals at 08.45 
(£20), 08.56 (£300) and 08.57 (£20), all using Miss Ds card, all at the same ATM.
And Ive also looked at both Miss Ds bank statement and the audit trail 
authentication evidence also recording the same three cash withdrawals.
And Ive seen the evidence provided by the bank that controls the ATM, confirming 
there was no issue with the ATM in question and the money had been dispensed 
correctly in the same way as the other two, later withdrawals.
So, Im satisfied that all three transactions were carried out using Miss Ds card at the same 
ATM.I also see that the two £20 withdrawals are 12 minutes apart, with another confirmed 
ATM transaction (the £300) and a shop purchase between them, so I agree with TSB 
that this is extremely unlikely to have been a duplicate transaction because theyd 
have expected the two £20 withdrawals to have been made at the same time if the 
transactions were duplicates. And they would be extremely unlikely to have been 
separated by a correct withdrawal too.
And Ive also considered whether a third party could have made the disputed 
transaction without Miss Ds knowledge. I note that the first £20 transaction at 
8.45am was made with her card and PIN, and there was a close series of undisputed 
transactions both before and after that time, and I cant see how anyone could have 
taken Miss Ds card and returned it within minutes without her knowledge or known 
her PIN.
So, Im equally satisfied that, on balance considering all the evidence set out above, Miss D 
herself most likely consented to, and authorised, the disputed £20 withdrawal.
I appreciate that Miss D was also unhappy with TSBs investigation. And I see that TSB 
didnt provide a temporary refund, as theyd said, or investigate Miss Ds claim by raising a 
dispute. While this was far from ideal, I also note that Miss D didnt respond to their letter or 
follow up the outcome of her claim although this doesnt exonerate TSB for their oversight. 
But I think the decision TSB arrived at was reasonable for the reasons Ive explained above, 
and while I acknowledge they made an error, I dont think it would have changed the 
outcome for Miss D, or that she was prejudiced by that error, so Im not going to ask TSB to 
do anything further here.
I also note that Miss D offered differing accounts of what had happened, firstly claiming there 
had been a duplicated transaction, then saying she had tried to withdraw money which had 
not been dispensed. So, Im more persuaded by the account provided by TSB which has 
been consistent throughout.
My role is to decide whether the TSBs decision to hold Miss D liable for the disputed £20 
transaction was fair and reasonable. And based on the available evidence, I think that it was.
So, Im not going to tell them they need to do more to resolve her complaint. Because on 
balance, I think its more likely than not that Miss D authorised the disputed transaction 
herself.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2021. 
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman