DRN-3921275
The complaint
Miss C, represented by Mr C, says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, took so long to 
respond to her account closure appeal that she was not left with enough time to transfer out 
her Help to Buy ISA. And she wasnt told the specific closure date, nor would the bank give 
her any additional time.
What happened 
Halifax wrote to Miss C on 6 August 2022, and sent a text, giving the required 60 days 
notice that it was closing her current account and her ISA account. She appealed this 
decision but it wasnt until the 30 September 2022 that she received confirmation that the 
closures would go ahead. She then wasnt told this would be on 13 October 2022  had she 
known this she says she would have started an ISA transfer. Miss C asked for more time so 
she could transfer out her ISA but the bank refused. It did however later accept there had 
been a delay in returning her funds from both accounts and for this it made a £75 distress 
and inconvenience payment. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Cs complaint. She said the bank had apologised for the 
delay in responding to Miss Cs appeal but there was never any guarantee it would succeed. 
Miss C was given the required closure notice and could have acted sooner to move her ISA. 
She said Halifax is not obliged to confirm the exact closure date once notice has been 
served. Miss C knew it would be 6 October 2022 at the earliest, so still had time after 30 
September 2022 to start the process. She said she could not look at the banks decision to 
close the ISA as that had already been considered by this service as a separate complaint.
Unhappy with this assessment Miss C asked for an ombudsmans review. She said, in 
summary, the four working days between 30 September and 6 October 2022 was not long 
enough to move her ISA, so why could the bank not act reasonably and accommodate her 
request for more time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why but I first want to 
clarify that whilst I have carefully considered all of Miss Cs comments I will comment here 
only on those I find to be material to the outcome of her complaint. This is as our rules allow 
and in keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service.
I have found no evidence of a bank error in Halifaxs decision not to move the closure date 
for Miss Cs ISA. I can see it accepts it didnt respond as promptly as it should to Miss Cs 
appeal but the outcome of this was never certain and Miss C had been served 60 days 
notice so she had sufficient time to arrange the transfer out. Halifax apologised to Miss C in 
its letter of 18 October 2022 for the time taken to respond to her appeal. I note there 
remained £44.25 of interest funds in the account at the time as the balance on the account 
of around £9,000 had already been moved out in April 2022. I find the apology to be a 
proportionate response in the circumstances.
Miss C argues it was unreasonable she only had between 30 September 2022 and the 
closure date, which she understood to be 6 October 2022. But it was solely her decision to 
wait until the result of her appeal was available. I understand why she asked for an 
extension but I cannot agree the banks decision not to give more time was an error, or 
unfair, in the context of the 60 days notice it had provided. 
There was a delay in sending the funds owed to Miss C after the closure, along with the 
funds from her current account but Halifax paid £75 compensation, plus £7 travel costs, to 
recognise this. Miss C did not raise this issue with this service and after our investigators 
initial assessment said it was not related to the issue we are investigating. I refer to it here 
solely for completeness.
Overall, I am not instructing Halifax to take any further action. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman