DRN-3219157
The complaint
Mrs A complains Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited failed to warn her of the 
risks of investing in corporate bonds. 
What happened
Mrs A called Hargreaves on 18 February 2021 to use its telephone dealing service. Shed 
identified that she wanted to purchase corporate bonds issued by a specific company, which 
Ill call Company N. She suggested during this call that shed be using the bonds to 
supplement her income. 
Hargreaves agent talked through the Company N bonds available, before passing Mrs A 
through to its dealing desk to complete the purchase. She called back to purchase more of 
Company Ns bonds in the days that followed. 
Some weeks later, in March 2021, Mrs A called back to purchase different assets. At this 
point, Hargreaves asked her questions which assessed her understanding of investing in 
fixed interest investments. Following this, Mrs A came to understand the bonds shed 
purchased didnt function in the way shed understood they would. So she sold all of her 
bonds at a loss. 
Mrs A complained to Hargreaves. She said itd failed to check her understanding of the risks 
prior to letting her trade. And that despite Hargreaves knowing why shed purchased the 
bonds, it hadnt pointed out the likelihood of her making a loss on them. 
Hargreaves rejected Mrs As complaint. It argued its services to her had always been 
provided on a strictly execution-only basis. Its decision to check on Mrs As understanding in 
March 2021, was triggered because at that point shed tried purchasing different, more 
complex assets. Hargreaves argued there was no requirement for it to have checked Mrs As 
understanding in February 2021, when shed purchased Company Ns bonds. 
Mrs A wasnt happy with Hargreaves response. She felt strongly the investment had been 
mis-sold to her. So she referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. They felt that as Hargreaves was providing 
her with an execution-only service, they wouldnt expect it to have intervened in the way Mrs 
A wished it had. As she didnt accept our investigators findings, the matters been referred to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin by saying that Im very sympathetic to the situation Mrs A has found herself in here. 
With the benefit of hindsight, its apparent she didnt fully understand the investment she was 
purchasing. And having since disposed of it, shes crystallised a loss, which I expect will 
make whats happened all the more upsetting. 
But whilst I may regret whats happened to Mrs A, my role here is to decide whether 
Hargreaves met with its obligations and treated her fairly, based on what it knew or ought to 
have known about her. And having considered the evidence in this case, Im satisfied its 
done so. 
In setting out my conclusions, whilst I have considered all of the arguments presented, I 
wont be addressing them all individually. Id like to assure both parties this isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. Its within my gift as an ombudsman to address what I consider to be the crux of 
the complaint, and thats what Ill be doing in my decision. 
Mrs A doesnt dispute that shes an execution-only client of Hargreaves. Ive reviewed the 
firms terms and conditions which outline what this entails. And Im satisfied theyre clear that 
its down to Mrs A to decide for herself whether an investment is suitable for her. As an 
execution-only broker, Hargreaves is required to carry out instructions Mrs A provides. 
Theres no requirement for Hargreaves to give Mrs A advice during any of their interactions. 
Mrs A willve accepted Hargreaves terms when she opened her account. And so by not 
advising Mrs A, Im satisfied the firms treating her fairly and in line with the terms of its 
agreement with her. 
Ive considered whether theres any likelihood that Hargreaves blurred the lines of the 
service it was providing. And in doing so, whether it gave Mrs A an expectation she was 
receiving advice. But Im not persuaded thats the case here. Ive listened to the call Mrs A 
had with Hargreaves on 18 February 2021. And Im satisfied that neither agent Mrs A spoke 
to gave her what she couldve reasonably taken as a personal recommendation. The first 
agent in particular was very insistent that whilst he was able to provide her with information 
about Company Ns bonds, any instructions had to come from Mrs A directly. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that when Mrs A called to purchase Company Ns bonds, 
Hargreaves neither owed her advice, nor gave her the false impression she was receiving 
advice. Her decision on what to purchase, for how much, and whether this was suitable for 
her, was something Mrs A needed to determine for herself. 
Having said that, I appreciate part of Mrs As complaint is that she wasnt expecting advice 
from Hargreaves. She believes that checking her understanding and pointing out the 
probability of her making a loss, wouldnt amount to advice. And that Hargreaves shouldve 
acted in her best interests and warned her she was likely making a mistake. Especially given 
what shed told the call handler about what she was trying to achieve. 
I can fully appreciate why, in this specific scenario, Mrs A mightve wished Hargreaves had 
intervened like this. But in my view, a service where Hargreaves evaluated Mrs As 
investment goals, what asset she was looking to achieve them with, before giving an opinion 
on the probability of that strategy succeeding or failing, would constitute financial advice. 
And as Ive explained above, Mrs A couldnt have had any reasonable expectation of a 
service like this when she called Hargreaves. 
Part of Mrs As complaint is that Hargreaves shouldve questioned her understanding of 
dealing with bonds sooner. Had the same questions she was asked in March, been posed to 
her sooner in February, shes suggested she couldve avoided the loss shes made. Ive 
considered this, but Im satisfied with Hargreaves explanation of why it didnt ask the 
questions sooner. The Company N bonds Mrs A purchased dont meet the bar for 
Hargreaves to assess the appropriateness of allowing her to trade them. Whereas the 
assets she enquired about later did. I accept that from Mrs As perspective, she wishes 
Hargreaves had checked her understanding anyway. But theres no broad requirement for a firm to assess the extent to which its customers understand financial markets prior to letting 
them trade. Such assessments are reserved for more complex assets. Im satisfied 
Hargreaves has interpreted its obligations here correctly, and its treated Mrs A fairly as a 
result. 
Mrs A has noted that Hargreaves regulator requires it to communicate in a way thats clear, 
fair and not misleading. Shes said the firm failed to do this by advertising an interest rate 
associated with Company Ns bonds, that shes not benefited from in the way shed 
expected to. But with the upmost respect to Mrs A, in my view, her perception that 
Hargreaves has misled her, is rooted in her own misunderstanding about how Company Ns 
bonds function.  
The name of Company Ns bonds, which contained an interest rate, isnt set by Hargreaves 
itself. And during the call on 18 February 2021, Hargreaves first agent gave an explanation 
of how this interest rate could be interpreted, which I consider to be clear, fair and not 
misleading. With hindsight, its apparent Mrs A didnt understand the agents explanation. 
But having listened to the call a number of times, Im satisfied Mrs A didnt come across in 
such a way that Id expect Hargreaves agent to have repeated or taken more time over their 
explanation. Particularly as, for the reasons Ive explained above, there was no requirement 
for Hargreaves to provide Mrs A with any advice, nor check her understanding prior to letting 
her trade. Im therefore satisfied that the firms communications with Mrs A were sufficiently 
clear to meet with its obligations to her. 
Throughout the discussions that took place on 18 February 2021, Ive considered whether 
Mrs A presented to Hargreaves in such a way that the firm couldve perceived her as being 
vulnerable. Hargreaves regulator expects that, as part of treating its customers fairly, the 
firm must be vigilant for signs of vulnerability. And when such signs are identified, its 
expected that Hargreaves would take practical action to prevent its customers from coming 
to financial harm. 
Ive thought about the regulators guidance to firms on this subject, but ultimately, Im not 
persuaded Mrs A willve come across as being vulnerable. Mrs A begins the call on 18 
February 2021 by clearly outlining she was looking to purchase corporate bonds issued by 
Company N. Theres no confusion or wavering on this point. She proceeds to have a back 
and forth conversation with Hargreaves agent about the bonds on offer. And she can be 
heard audibly making notes whilst comparing the details of each of them. There are 
occasions during the call where she misuses some of the terminology associated with 
trading these sorts of assets. But theres nothing she says during this call that persuades me 
Hargreaves shouldve treated her as vulnerable, such that its obligation to take practical 
action to protect her would be engaged. 
Mindful that Hargreaves was serving Mrs A as an execution-only client, who did not present 
as being vulnerable, Im satisfied it had no basis to intervene in, or otherwise question her 
instruction to purchase the bonds. In my view, the firms delivered the level of service I think 
Mrs A couldve reasonably expected from whats outlined in Hargreaves terms and 
conditions. And more broadly, Im satisfied that for the reasons given above, Hargreaves has 
treated her fairly, and met with its obligations to her. 
Its for these reasons that I do not uphold Mrs As complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman