DRN-3813784
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
handled her request for help to recover money following a purchase she made online. 
What happened
On 18 December 2021, Miss H paid £274.49 for some items online direct with the merchant, 
who Ill refer to as P. She gave her boyfriends address for delivery, and she used her debit 
card to pay for the items. 
A couple of days later Miss H contacted P as she said the items hadnt been delivered. P 
explained that the information they had suggested the items had been delivered, and they 
said Miss H was liable for the transaction.
 
Because of this, Miss H contacted Barclaycard towards the end of December 2021 to ask for 
their help in recovering the money. Barclaycard needed some more information from Miss H 
at this point, and she provided it to them on 21 January 2022. Once they had this 
information, Barclaycard raised a chargeback claim on her behalf and temporarily credited 
her account with the total amount of the purchase. 
P defended the chargeback in early February 2022. They provided their evidence to 
Barclaycard along with their reasons why they believed the items had been delivered. 
Barclaycard forwarded this evidence onto Miss H in the middle of February 2022 and asked 
her to let them know if she wanted to pursue the claim  they gave her ten days to respond 
and to outline any concerns she had. 
Miss H didnt respond to Barclaycards request, and on 16 March 2022 Barclaycard wrote to 
her to let her know that the chargeback claim hadnt been successful, and they wouldnt be 
able to make the refund permanent. They re-debited Miss Hs account for the total amount 
on 30 March 2022. 
Miss H complained to Barclaycard at this point as she was unhappy the claim had been 
closed and the money re-debited from her account. Barclaycard looked into things for her 
and issued their final response letter to her at the end of April 2022. They told her that P had 
provided evidence to show that the items had been delivered and, because of that, Miss H 
was liable for the transaction. 
Miss H wasnt happy about this and brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld it. He said he didnt think the evidence P provided to Barclaycard was sufficient to 
confirm the items had been delivered correctly and to the correct address. He said the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 said that goods remain at the traders risk until the goods have 
come into the physical possession of Miss H, and the evidence provided didnt conclusively 
confirm she had received the goods. Because of that, our investigator felt Barclaycard 
should have represented the chargeback claim once theyd reviewed the evidence provided 
by P, and he was satisfied the chargeback claim would have been successful. As the time 
limit to continue to contest the chargeback claim had now expired, our investigator said that 
Barclaycard should reimburse Miss H the total amount of £274.49.
Barclaycard didnt accept this. They said the reason the chargeback wasnt successful was 
because Miss H didnt respond to their request in February 2022 to explain any concerns 
she had, and the time limit to continue to contest the chargeback expired. They also said 
that the evidence provided by P was compelling, and even if Miss H had responded to their 
request in time, it was highly unlikely Barclaycard would have continued to contest the 
chargeback as they didnt think it likely to have been successful.
As Barclaycard didnt agree, it was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision 
on 3 November 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When a person makes a payment for goods or services using a debit card, their bank may 
be able to help them in limited circumstances if they havent received what they paid for. The 
bank can raise a dispute, known as a chargeback, with the bank which accepted the card 
payment. 
A chargeback isnt something a customer can demand that their bank attempt, but when 
faced with a person requesting assistance with a disputed card transaction I would expect 
the bank to consider attempting a chargeback, and to do so if there was a reasonable 
chance of it succeeding. And in Miss Hs case Barclaycard did raise a chargeback.
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a 
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties 
do not agree for the issues to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration.
 
P defended the chargeback. They sent Barclaycard a photo of the items having been 
delivered along with the Royal Mail tracking information. They said this confirmed the items 
had been delivered to the correct address on 22 December 2021. 
I have to say I think there is some doubt over what P have provided. The photo shows the 
items on the floor outside an address, but it doesnt show the house number the items have 
been delivered to. I accept that items arent often signed for now due to the restrictions 
imposed during the COVID-19 pandemic, but I do think any photos should confirm in more 
detail the address being delivered to. 
That said, I also dont agree entirely with what our investigator has said. I dont think the 
evidence is enough to suggest that Barclaycard should have represented the chargeback 
again, and that it more than likely would have been successful had they done so. I dont 
think the evidence is clear-cut on either side to suggest that.
Barclaycard sent the evidence provided by P to Miss H and their letter does ask her to let 
them know if she has any concerns with it so they can consider any further action. It also 
provided a timeframe for her to respond by. I cant say that is unreasonable in the face of the 
evidence provided. I think Barclaycard were right to let Miss H see the evidence and to give 
her the opportunity to explain why she didnt think it was sufficient to allow P to defend the 
chargeback claim. And, because Miss H didnt respond to their request, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Barclaycard not to escalate the chargeback claim further and re-debit the 
amount from Miss Hs account. Unfortunately, the time limit for Barclaycard to continue to contest the chargeback claim has 
now expired. That time limit is set by the relevant card scheme, in this case thats Visa, and 
isnt something Barclaycard can challenge. As Miss H didnt respond in time, Im satisfied 
there isnt any more I can ask Barclaycard to do. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss H. But Im not planning on asking 
Barclaycard to do anything more here.
Barclaycard didnt respond to my provisional decision. Miss H did and didnt agree with it. 
She said she continued to have issues with the order details on Ps website. She also said 
she never received the letter from Barclaycard in mid-February 2022 and feels they should 
have called her when she hadnt responded to it. Shes upset as shes still without the items 
and hasnt had the money back for them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Miss H that Ive considered the points shes made in response to my 
provisional decision. But, having done so I see no reason to depart from the findings I made 
in that decision. Ill explain why.
Miss H has said shes continuing to have problems with Ps website and the order details 
this complaint refers to. I appreciate her comments here, but P doesnt fall in our jurisdiction 
to consider, and I wont be commenting on that. My decision is looking at Barclaycard and 
whether Im satisfied with how they dealt with Miss Hs request for help. And Im satisfied 
they dealt with it fairly. 
Miss H has told me that she didnt receive the letter sent by Barclaycard to her in 
February 2022, when Barclaycard provided the evidence from P and asked Miss H for any 
comments she had about it. Barclaycard have provided a copy of this letter, along with other 
information relevant to Miss Hs complaint, such as her bank statements at the time of the 
transaction with P. The letter from Barclaycard was sent to the same address held for 
Miss Hs bank statements. This is also the same address Miss H provided to our service 
when she brought her complaint to us. Miss H may not have received the letter from 
Barclaycard, but I cant hold them responsible for that. I appreciate Miss H would have liked 
a telephone call from Barclaycard as she hadnt responded to the request  but I dont think 
Barclaycard had any obligation to do this. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think Barclaycard acted reasonably in sending 
the evidence from P to Miss H to consider and respond to. As the letter wasnt returned to 
them as undelivered or not received, I also think its reasonable for them to have closed the 
chargeback claim once the deadline to respond had expired. 
I know this will continue to come as a disappointment to Miss H. But my final decision is that 
Barclaycard dont have to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman