DRN-3063252
The complaint
Ms S complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money paid from her account by direct debit 
over several years.  
What happened
Ms S contacted Lloyds and asked them to recredit her account with money paid from her 
account by direct debit to a number of companies over several years. Lloyds declined and 
concluded this was a dispute between Ms S and the various companies. They explained   
Ms S will need to contact them directly to resolve the matter. Ms S complained to Lloyds and 
said she didnt give instructions for these direct debits, she wasnt provided with advance 
notification of these payments and she felt the direct debit agreement is with the bank and 
not the various companies. Ms S also complained that she was expecting a refund from her 
claims within 24 hours but went into overdraft while waiting for it. 
 
Lloyds responded and explained their decision to decline Ms Ss claim was taken on the 
basis they could see payments going back as far as 2011. Lloyds said Ms S is registered for 
online banking and they could see she uses this on a regular basis. So, they felt it wouldve 
been reasonable to expect Ms S to have contacted them sooner about her concerns relating 
to the payments leaving her account. Lloyds suggested Ms S speak with the companies 
involved to address any payments she felt are owed to her.  
Our investigator looked into things for Ms S. She thought Lloyds decision to decline the 
refunds wasnt unfair. Ms S disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms S will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The direct debit guarantee claims
Lloyds have provided a direct debit description which says, A Direct Debit can only be set 
up and amended by the originator [company collecting payment] directly, this cannot be 
done from the customers bank side Lloyds say a direct debit is a mutual agreement 
between Ms S and an originator whereby a date and an amount is agreed. When the 
agreement is made the customer supplies an originator with their bank details as the 
mandate is set up electronically and controlled by the originator. Lloyds say, they dont have 
any information to check the instruction against since the agreement is between Ms S and 
the originators  and not with Lloyds. 
In this case, Ms S complains about direct debit payments which have been taken by five 
companies; company B, company I, company L, company P and company S. I can see from 
statements provided by Lloyds, payments are taken by direct debit by company S between 
March 2002 to May 2005. And, payments are taken by company B between April 2011 to 
March 2012. Two direct debit payments are taken by company L each month between 
February 2002 to December 2016. A direct debit is taken by company P between April 2012 
to December 2017. And a direct debit payment is taken by company I between October 2003 
to September 2020.  
The Direct Debit Guarantee (the guarantee) applies to all direct debits and is there to 
protect customers if theres been an error with their payment. This might involve an error by 
the bank or by the originator. Generally, a payment error might occur because the payment 
date, amount or frequency is incorrect. I should note that the guarantee isnt intended to deal 
with all contractual disputes. 
I can see Ms S feels shes entitled to an immediate refund under the guarantee. Im 
conscious of the way Ms S has interpreted the guarantee, and I acknowledge her reasons 
for believing Lloyds should follow the rules in the way she believes. However, I need to 
consider whether the guarantee was intended to be used in the way Ms S wishes it to be. 
The guarantee enables account holders to receive an immediate refund from their bank in 
certain  but not all circumstances. Its purpose is to provide protection to customers who 
have provided businesses with access to their accounts in order to collect money, usually for 
an agreed service. And most errors in payments are usually identified fairly quickly. 
Ms Ss payments to the various companies she wants payments refunded for are covered by 
the guarantee if she has given authority. This means that customers are entitled to a full and 
immediate refund from their bank if an error is made in the payment of the direct debit. For 
instance, if a payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected.. 
And, I cant see Ms S is claiming this. The direct debit guarantee says it cannot be used to 
address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation. I do understand and 
acknowledge Ms Ss feelings in this but the right to a refund isnt automatic or absolute. 
Ms S wants to claim several years worth of direct debit payments to these companies. And 
she has been making regular payments to them during this time which leads me to question 
why she has decided to dispute the payments after so much time has passed. Given the 
historic nature of Ms Ss claim, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to take into account 
further information provided by Ms S. In this case, Ms S says there wasnt any advance 
notice relating to the direct debits and there were no direct debit instructions or mandates 
signed by her authorising the direct debits. But based on the information Ms S provides, 
Lloyds feel this is a dispute between Ms S and the various companies. So, they decline her 
request for a refund of the payments. 
I havent seen any evidence provided by Ms S to Lloyds to suggest an error took place when 
these payments were taken. And given the volume of payments made over many years, 
across the number of companies Ms S has requested the refund for, Im not persuaded all 
these companies made errors at the same time. I can only decide here whether Lloyds dealt 
with Ms Ss request fairly and reasonably  and based on the evidence Ive seen from both 
parties, I think they did. 
Its also not entirely clear whether the scheme actually applies in the circumstances Ms S 
has described. The purpose of the guarantee is to provide protection to customers providing 
originators with access to their accounts in order to collect money. But Ms S has specifically 
said she didnt do this. She says money was taken from her account without her instructions 
and without having signed any mandate. 
Its also not clear why Ms S might expect to receive advance notice if, as she says, she 
didnt authorise the payments. So, I dont think Lloyds are acting unfairly towards Ms S by 
refusing a refund and suggesting she contact the originators. Lloyds agreeing to refund Ms S 
Ms S says, when she called Lloyds to ask for a refund under the guarantee, she was told 
she would receive a refund of £2,500 within 24 hours. She says, she didnt receive the 
refund and her account went into overdraft as a result. 
Ive listened to the recording of the call Ms S makes to Lloyds. She gives authority for the 
call handler to speak with her friend. The call handler takes details relating to the claims 
under the guarantee and explains she needs to read out a script before shes able to submit 
the claims. The call handler says once Lloyds carry out further investigation, and confirm 
validity of the claim, an immediate refund is made. The call handler says Lloyds will aim to 
get some of the claims investigated later that day and some the following day. I cant see the 
call handler confirms refunds will be made. 
The call handler does explain the claims will need to be validated before any refunds are 
made. So, given that the claims werent validated, I cant see any error has been made here. 
The call handler doesnt at any point guarantee a refund, but instead talks through the 
process which might lead to a refund and what steps determine whether a refund is made. 
So, I dont think Ms S was given any expectation that a refund has been agreed. I therefore 
dont uphold this part of the complaint.      
I recognise that Ms S feels strongly about this and shell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I think Lloyds have acted reasonably and in line with the 
guarantee. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman