DRN-4442993
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the different dates Sainsburys Bank Plc use when producing her 
credit card account statements. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter last month, part of which is copied below:
Mrs M has a credit card account with Sainsburys. She opted to have her statements 
produced on the 7th of each month. In 2019 she noted that occasionally the statement was 
produced on the 8th of the month. When she asked why, Sainsburys said that if the 7th falls 
on a weekend or bank holiday, the statement is produced the following day. It also said the 
statement would show all transactions from the 7th of the previous month to the 6th of the 
current month, even if her statement is produced on the 8th due to it being a weekend or 
bank holiday.
When Mrs M received her May 2023 statement on the 8th of the month, she complained. She 
said her banking app said it would be produced on the 7th but it was not. She said the dates 
given by Sainsburys are inaccurate and she cant rely on them to help her financial 
budgeting. Sainsburys said there had been no banking error and didnt uphold her 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Sainsburys had done anything wrong. She thought it was fair to 
say that Mrs M was aware that the statement date would change if the 7th fell on a weekend 
or bank holiday, and she could make allowances for that. She was satisfied Sainsburys had 
treated Mrs M fairly and reasonably by explaining how the statement dates work.
Mrs M remained unhappy and so her complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mrs M says Sainsburys online banking app notifies her what date her monthly credit card 
statement will be produced. And she uses this to determine when to stop spending on her 
account to ensure she has enough funds to cover the payment due. In May 2023 her app 
told her she would get her statement on the 7th of the month. But her statement wasnt 
produced until the 8th. She said this meant that her statement included some transactions 
she made on the 8th that she hadnt budgeted for. 
When Sainsburys responded to Mrs Ms questions about statement dates in 2019 it told her 
that each statement only included transactions made between the 7th of the previous month 
to the 6th day of the current month. But Mrs M pointed out that her May 2023 statement 
included transactions dated the 8th of that month so Sainsburys must have got that wrong.
So, what is the true situation here. Sainsburys believes its agent got things wrong in 2019. It 
clarified that Mrs Ms statements are produced at midnight at the end of the 7th day. This 
means that any transactions that have cleared to the account when the statement is 
produced will be included in that statement. So, it could include transactions made on the 7th 
day, not the 6th day as Sainsburys said in 2019.
If the 7th day falls on a Sunday, then the statement will be produced at midnight at the end of 
the 8th day. And if any transactions clear the account on the 8th, they will be included in that 
statement. Sainsburys also said that transactions normally take a few days to clear but if a 
transaction is quick to clear then some transactions made on the 8th might also be included 
in the statement on that date. 
What does that mean for Mrs M? It means she needs to be aware of months where the 7th 
falls on a Sunday as her statement might include transactions she makes on the 8th. And if 
she wants to pay her entire credit card balance that month, she will need to budget for that 
eventuality. 
Has Sainsburys done anything wrong here? I should start by saying my role is limited to 
deciding whether or not its treated Mrs M fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances. 
How Sainsburys chooses when and how to issue statements to its customers is rightly a 
business decision for it to make. The terms and conditions of Mrs Ms account simply say it 
will give her a statement each month showing the minimum payment shell need to pay that 
month. Theres no mention of the actual dates the statements will be produced or that the 
dates must be the same every month. Sainsburys has also explained to Mrs M on several 
occasions that the statement date will be different if the 7th falls on a weekend or bank 
holiday. So, I dont think Sainsburys has treated Mrs M unfairly in the way its provided her 
monthly statements. 
But I dont think Sainsburys has explained the situation very well. It told Mrs M in 2019 that 
the statement would only include transactions made up to the 6th of the month. Sainsburys 
accept that was wrong. It was also unclear about whether transactions Mrs M made on the 
8th day would be included in those statements produced on that 8th day. Its now confirmed 
they would be. 
So, this has caused confusion and no doubt a certain amount of frustration and distress for 
Mrs M and I think Sainsburys should do something more to acknowledge that. I think a 
payment of £150 to acknowledge the upset caused would be a fair and reasonable way of 
resolving this matter. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc should 
pay Mrs M £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Responses to my provisional decision
Sainsburys accepted my decision. Mrs M welcomed my findings but said the date shown on 
her banking app couldnt be relied upon to be accurate. She asked if Sainsburys should be 
required to make changes to its app to ensure the dates on the app are correct. I put this to 
Sainsburys and enclosed a screenshot Mrs M had given us which showed that her 
June 2023 statement was due on 8 June 2023. I asked Sainsburys why Mrs Ms app 
sometimes said her statement was due on the 7th of the month and sometimes on the 8th. 
That will sometimes be because the 7th falls on a weekend. But that doesnt explain why her 
app said her June statement was due on 8 June 2023, as the 7th was a Wednesday.In reply, Sainsburys said Mrs Ms May 2023 statement was generated on 8 May 2023 
because 7 May 2023 was a Sunday. It said the app recognised the previous months 
behaviour and populated this information for June 2023 as well. Sainsburys recognised this 
had caused confusion but noted that the information was there to assist its customers. It said 
the app had been changed and it now only provides the payment due date and not the 
statement generation date. It also said the app prompts its customers to log in online to view 
the full statements, which would remove any confusion for Mrs M in the future.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope Mrs M finds the further information provided by Sainsburys helpful. Ive thought about 
whether I should change or amend my provisional decision in light of this new information 
but, on balance, I dont think I should. Sainsburys could and should have provided more 
clarity around the dates of Mrs Ms statements when she first asked. It didnt do that, and 
that caused a certain amount of confusion and upset for Mrs M, as Ive set out above. 
Sainsburys should take responsibility and do something to acknowledge that, and I think a 
payment of £150 is a fair and reasonable way of resolving this matter in all the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc should pay 
Mrs M £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman