DRN-3790170
The complaint
Mr R says that after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy, Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) and its agent provided poor service to him. 
What happened
On 7 February 2022 Mr R reported a non-fault accident to RSA. He says there was a delay 
in its agent finding a garage to carry out repairs and in getting a replacement car. RSA 
provided a hire car until a garage provided one on 18 February 2022 (soon after Mr R 
returned from a holiday abroad) and Mr R had his own car back within a week of that.
 
Mr R was only entitled to a small (class A) car under the policy. Whilst on holiday, Mr R was 
advised by a hire firm that it would arrange a five-seater car for him - but it then said it wasnt 
available. RSAs agent told Mr R it would continue to look for a five-seater car. Although the 
hire firm had a five-seater, it wasnt a class A one. As a four-seater car didnt meet his 
needs, Mr R thought RSA should have paid for a higher-grade car.
Mr R complained to RSA about the replacement car, the lack of updates from it and its 
agent, and the agents delays. He also complained about having had to make numerous 
calls to RSA and its agent to try to chase up on these issues. RSAs agent offered him £100 
compensation. RSA paid him £50 for the calls hed made, plus £25 for its agents delays. But 
Mr R told us he thought £500 compensation in total should be paid for these issues.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Rs complaint. He thought RSA had acted reasonably 
in trying to put matters right. Mr R said RSA had raised his expectations and had caused him 
extra stress by promising not to restrict the replacement car to what was provided under the 
policy. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says a guaranteed hire car will be provided whilst repairs at an approved garage 
are ongoing. It says the vehicle will be a small, class A one, such as a three-door 
hatchback. It says the car isnt intended to be equivalent to a consumers own car, as its 
provided only to keep the consumer mobile. This level of provision is standard across the 
industry, although some policies provide an option to buy a higher level of cover.
Theres no mention of the number of seats in the class A car. But in my opinion, most 
consumers who buy this policy or a similar one would know that small, class A cars are often 
four-seater vehicles. I dont think RSA was required to specify the number of seats, as Mr R 
has suggested. Its something that cant be predicted or guaranteed.
 
Its always possible that a consumer may be involved in an accident during a policy year, 
and that their car may have to be taken be off the road for repairs. So its important for them 
to be sure they have the right level of cover when choosing a policy. Most consumers accept 
a standard class A car replacement, regardless of the number of seats. But Mr R says it was 
very important to him to have a five-seater replacement car, and the only available upgrade 
on this policy is to buy class A cover when it isnt provided as standard. I think Mr R could 
have looked for a policy where there was an option to upgrade the standard replacement car 
provision if necessary, should he ever need it.
 
Mr R says his expectations were raised by RSA because it promised that it would step 
outside the policy provisions in order to provide him with a five-seater car. But I dont think 
theres any evidence of that. I can see that the hire firm said it had a five-seater car (which 
then wasnt available). And RSAs agent said it would try to find one for Mr R. Id have 
expected any reasonable insurer and its agent to try to accommodate Mr Rs requirement, 
as he was so unhappy. Thats what happened. But I dont think what was said amounted to a 
promise of a five-seater car. In my opinion, it was an undertaking that efforts would be made 
to find one. Unfortunately, thats always dependent on availability  and I dont think it was 
unreasonable for RSA not to agree to pay extra for a car in a higher category than class A. 
 
It must have been frustrating for Mr R to have had to chase RSA and its agent, and to have 
faced long hold times when making calls, some from abroad. I think RSAs agent should 
have found a garage / arranged a replacement car sooner than it did. But RSA and its agent 
recognised that theyd provided some poor service. I think they made a reasonable effort to 
put matters right. RSAs agent offered Mr R £100 compensation. RSA tried to minimise his 
inconvenience initially by providing hire to fill in the gap created by the agents delay - and 
later it paid him £25 for that as well  plus £50 compensation for the calls hed made to it. 
Ive thought about the amount of inconvenience faced by Mr R, as well as the length of time 
he was inconvenienced. I think the compensation offered to him was fair. He wants a 
significant increase - but I think thats based on his view of RSAs failure to provide a five-
seater car, especially having raised his expectations. I dont agree with Mr Rs opinion on 
those issues. Had RSA and its agent not provided £175 compensation, thats around the 
sum I would have proposed. I know Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to require RSA to pay him further compensation.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
7 February 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman