DRN-2800964
The complaint
Mr C has complained Blue Motor Finance Ltd wont allow him to reject his car despite him 
providing them with evidence it wasnt in a satisfactory condition when he first got it.
What happened
Mr C bought a second-hand car in February 2019. He took out a hire purchase agreement 
with Blue Motor Finance (BMF). He was to pay £172.97 a month over a five year period. 
Within the first couple of months Mr C brought some issues to the dealers attention (Ill call 
the dealer C). This involved a flat battery, a radiator leak and buckled wheels. These issues 
were remedied. But in April Mr C told C he was having real problems with a whining noise 
coming from the wheels. In July an independent report was carried out which identified a 
squeaking type noise but believed overall this was a matter of wear and tear. C didnt agree 
further work needed to be funded by them.
Mr C had brought this issue to BMFs attention too as hed got an estimate from a garage for 
replacing the timing chain which he believed was causing the noise. As BMF confirmed there 
was no requirement on them to do anything further, Mr C brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator originally thought the problem could relate to the clutch and felt there was 
nothing to suggest Mr Cs car should have this problem so soon after purchase. She was 
going to uphold the complaint. BMF pointed out this wasnt a problem with the clutch. On this 
basis the complaint was then rejected.
Mr C wrote detailed letters in response and provided further evidence showing a timing chain 
issue was  he believed -at the root of this. Our investigator reviewed the complaint again. 
She also spoke to the garage Mr C had got an estimate from. BMF had also spoken to this 
garage and had believed there was no requirement for the timing chain to be replaced.
She thought the evidence showed there had been a fault with Mr Cs car making its condition 
unsatisfactory. She asked BMF to agree Mr C could reject the car. She also believed 20% of 
what Mr C had paid towards his hire purchase agreement should be refunded along with 
£100 compensation.
After some wait, BMF confirmed they didnt accept this outcome and asked it to be referred 
to an ombudsman.
Mr C provided comments in response which included what he felt was appropriate 
compensation. He compiled a detailed calculation covering the time hed spent on his 
complaint; insurance costs which hed spent after September 2019 when he believed BMF 
should have taken back his car; storage costs and the trauma this had caused him. This 
totalled £7,985.66.
I completed a provisional decision on 31 March 2021. I also believed the condition of Mr Cs 
car was unsatisfactory and he should be allowed to reject it. I increased the level of 
compensation payable.
Mr C accepted the overall direction of travel of my provisional decision but felt any payments 
he made should be rebated by 60-75%. He also calculated his compensation to be £5,000. 
Mr C has since terminated the credit agreement and paid a settlement amount. He 
confirmed, however, he still wished to reject the car.
Mr C also believes that his rejection should date from 30 April 2019. He provided evidence of 
insurance, road tax and storage costs that he believes should also be refunded.
I also received a response from BMF. They strongly reiterated their belief the car wasnt 
faulty. They felt Mr Cs personal circumstances had changed which is why he no longer 
wanted the car.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached roughly the same outcome I did in my provisional decision. 
Where there are changes to the resolution I believe is fair, Ive updated BMF in the 
meantime.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. So, for example, Im aware Mr C has raised other 
issues which have concerned him with the car and the finance agreement. This is 
particularly around the issue of additional fees he didnt believe hed been told about. I dont 
believe I need to consider those issues in detail as the main issue alone drives the outcome I 
believe is fair and reasonable.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators views of 20 December 2019, 
16 January and 28 January 2020. This covers what happened in detail, the investigators 
discussion with the garage which provided a quotation on the timing chain and the additional 
evidence she considered. This evidence  which included a job sheet from November 2017 
showing the timing chain had been replaced  has also been shared with BMF.
Mr C provided detailed responses to all the views as well as the provisional decision. Ive 
noted and reviewed these carefully in considering what I believe is the right outcome. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMF is also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says that under 
a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case involving a 
car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things 
like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
My starting point is BMF supplied Mr C with a second-hand car which had completed more 
than 70,000 miles at the time he bought it. But Mr C still has a right to expect this car to last 
and run effectively in line with its age and condition.
I dont believe this is what happened. Theres no doubt there was a fault which manifested 
itself in the noise. Although the report arranged by C didnt get to the bottom of what was 
causing the problem, it did confirm the problem existed.  
By the time the independent report was carried out, Mr C had already got a quotation from a 
separate garage. This garage (who Ill call R) provided him with a quotation for the costs of 
replacing the timing chain. This was for £792. BMF told us they discussed this issue with R 
who confirmed the timing chain didnt need to be replaced.
This, however, doesnt quite match the discussion our investigator had with R. During this 
conversation R confirmed the noise was likely to have been present at the pos (sic) as it 
doesnt happen overnight. He couldnt confirm whether this was the result of wear or tear or 
faulty installation as hed not seen the chain but advised replacing it as soon as possible. 
Leaving it as is could cause further damage to the car.
Our investigator confirmed Mr C had completed about 3,500 miles by the end of July 2019. I 
dont believe this would be enough to cause the timing chain to fail as a result of wear and 
tear.
Mr C had already provided a copy of a job sheet showing the timing chain had been 
replaced on 24 November 2017. This confirms to me this was the result of faulty installation.  
I believe overall this means that Mr Cs car was not in a satisfactory condition when he got it. 
BMF needs to put things right. Ive seen nothing in the evidence provided by BMF most 
recently to make me change my decision.
Putting things right
As Ive decided the car was not in a satisfactory condition, Mr C is allowed to reject it.  
In March this year Mr C took the decision to terminate the credit agreement. I believe he paid 
£4,854.64 on 23 March 2021. Mr C has confirmed he still wants to reject the car so BMF will 
have to contact him to arrange to collect the car.  The amount Mr C paid them will need to be refunded along with 8% simple interest from 23 March.
Its clear from the email chains between him, BMF and C that Mr C wanted to reject the car 
in July 2019. In September 2019 BMF rejected this request. Im aware Mr C is adamant that 
he exercised his right to reject the car in April 2019. Ive taken this into account when 
considering at what stage redress should date from.
Mr C first notified this fault in April 2019  two months after the agreement started. I believe 
from then on the car was evidencing issues which led to Mr Cs impaired use. From April 
2019 onwards, Mr Cs monthly repayments should be rebated by 20%.
Its clear that Mr C continued to use the car so I see no reason why it would be fair to expect 
him to pay nothing for this use. I can see his personal circumstances may have changed and 
he required to use the car less frequently. There was a period when Mr C was overseas and 
wouldnt have been in a position to drive the car anyway. These facts have had limited 
impact on my decision about impaired use.
I note by January 2020 the mileage on this car stood at 75,987 which suggests limited use 
since July 2019. The mileage then (as noted on the report of 31 July 2019) was 75,382 and 
at the time of purchase was 71,840. 
Mr Cs insurance documents state that he estimated his annual mileage to be around 5-
6,000. So I dont believe his usage was as massively impaired as Mr C has argued. However 
there was a fault with the car so I think impairment at 20% is fair and reasonable. I 
appreciate calculating impaired use is not an exact science but I believe Mr Cs suggestion 
of 60-75% rebate on monthly payments to be far too high.
Mr C arranged for his car to be stored from 15 August 2019. I think its unlikely, however, 
that no use was made of the car after that date. I say this as Mr Cs expected mileage was 
on the low side. He would have completed 600 miles within two weeks from 31 July which 
would then be well above average use. 
Its difficult to assess what exact date should be used here but I have decided on 
3 September 2019: the date of BMFs final response. I say this because they had an 
opportunity then to accept the evidence into the condition of the car. If they had, no further 
insurance, storage, road tax or credit agreement payments would have occurred so this is 
the cut-off I have chosen.
Storage costs of £3 a day will have to be paid from 4 September 2019 until the date BMF 
collect the car.
Mr C has claimed insurance costs back. His insurance costs were £739.11 for the annual 
period from 20 February 2019. Mr C has provided nothing to suggest further insurance was 
purchased after February 2020. The cost to Mr C after 3 September 2019 will have to be 
refunded. Mr C also paid an annual road tax of £170. The similar principle applies to that 
cost as for the insurance.
Ive seen evidence that Mr C arranged for the car to be declared off-road on 3 April 2020. 
8% simple interest a year will also need to be added to all refunds  except storage costs  
from the dates Mr C made payments until the date of settlement. I say this as Mr C has 
provided no evidence to show he has actually paid the storage costs although I accept the 
argument he has arranged storage which has a cost related to it.
I know Mr C believes he shouldnt be paying the interest costs of his finance agreement but I disagree. He bought a car under a hire purchase agreement which provided him with a total 
cost for credit. I see no reason why interest costs should be refunded.
Mr C has suggested he should be compensated in the sum of £5,000. However a number of 
the issues he highlights are where he believes BMF didnt follow the rules under the FCA. 
Its not my role to punish BMF for non-compliance. My role is to compensate a customer for 
the impact on him and not enrich him for a financial institutions errors. I remain of the view 
that £500 is fair and reasonable.
This reflects the time this has taken to resolve (but not with our service), that Mr C was 
forced to manage this issue whilst overseas for a prolonged period and the worry this must 
have caused overall.
Mr C has also claimed back the payment of a credit acceptance fee. As far as I can tell this 
was provided to the credit broker and they responded to Mr Cs complaint about this aspect 
in May 2019. Mr C is free to bring a new complaint to BMF about this issue if he wishes. I 
have to allow them the opportunity to consider this before it becomes an issue for our 
service to resolve.
Similarly Mr C has mentioned BMF has quoted an incorrect address on his credit record. 
BMF need to be given an opportunity to resolve this aspect before this service can look into 
this.
I appreciate Mr C may be disappointed by my findings. If thats the case, he has the choice 
to reject my decision and consider whether he wishes to pursue further redress by other 
means.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here, my final decision is to instruct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
collect the car at no further cost to Mr C;
refund £4,854.64 that Mr C paid them for the car on 23 March 2021; 
refund 20% of Mr Cs monthly payments from April 2019 until 3 September 2019; 
refund in full all monthly payments from 4 September 2019 until 23 March 2021;
refund insurance costs and road tax based on the figures within this decision from 
4 September 2019;
repay storage costs of £3 a day from 4 September 2019 until the date the car is 
collected; and
pay Mr C £500 for the trouble caused.
BMF should pay 8% simple interest a year on all refunds, except storage costs, calculated 
from the dates of payment to the date of settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Sandra QuinnOmbudsman