DRN-3665561
The complaint
Mrs P and the estate of the late Mr P have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them 
a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2000.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P first started talking to Lloyds about taking out a mortgage in 2000 and Ive 
seen a mortgage quotation that they were given in May 2000 which included an amount for 
PPI. Mrs P says they had to wait a year before transferring their mortgage to Lloyds as they 
needed to provide three years worth of accounts. That explains why further paperwork was 
completed for the PPI in May 2001. So the actual start date of the PPI was May 2001, even 
though they agreed to buy it (the sale) a year earlier.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Mrs P has raised a number of different issues as part of this complaint. I dont intend to 
address them all here but I would like to assure Mrs P that I have fully considered all of her 
submissions to reach a decision about whether or not the mortgage PPI was mis-sold.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
First of all Id like to clear up a misunderstanding about the policy. Mrs P says Lloyds have 
told her it was a joint policy and so, if it was held jointly, all cover should have been 
transferred over to her upon Mr Ps death. I can understand why Mrs P says that Lloyds told 
her it was a joint policy. Thats because Lloyds made a mistake in its final response letter 
dated 11 September 2019. Because although at the top of the letter the mortgage and PPI 
numbers are correctly set out, within the body of the letter Lloyds talks about the policy 
ending 4683 being held jointly in Mr and Mrs Ps names. However, account 4683 is the 
mortgage account number and not the PPI policy number. Lloyds then reiterated this 
mistake in its letter dated 29 July 2020 because it talked about the PPI being held by Mrs P 
and the late Mr P.
To be clear, although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI (policy number ending 3777) was set 
up just to cover Mr P. This is clear from the policy schedule that Mrs P now has a copy of.
Was the policy mis-sold?
From what we know of Lloyds normal sales process, the PPI was usually presented as 
optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that something 
different happened in this case. Mr and Mrs P both signed the PPI proposal form and then 
Mr P signed the direct debit mandate. On balance, I consider it more likely than not that Mr 
and Mrs P decided to buy the policy, knowing that they didnt have to.
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs P to buy the PPI. That means that, in recommending it to them, 
Lloyds needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of their circumstances 
at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
The policy was set up to cover Mr P for accident, sickness and unemployment. This makes 
sense as he was the main breadwinner and the household income would be impacted if he 
were unable to work. Mrs P has told us that, although she was listed as a director of her 
husbands company, she didnt work and that Mr P gave her housekeeping money.
The available evidence shows that Mr P had arranged to take out an income protection 
policy in May 2000 that went live in June 2000. This was cancelled in November 2003 
according to Lloyds records. As it was cancelled so long ago, there are no details of the 
policy, such as what risks it was covering and what the deferment period was etc. On 
balance, Im unable to conclude that the PPI was duplicating any existing cover.
Overall I think it was reasonable of Lloyds to advise Mr and Mrs P to buy the policy. Mr P 
was eligible for it and could have benefitted from it if he was unable to work due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment, subject to the policy terms and conditions.
Lloyds also needed to provide Mr and Mrs P with sufficient information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the PPI was right for them. Its possible that Lloyds 
didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy, particularly about the 
things that it didnt cover. But Mr P wasnt affected by any of those things. As I think they had 
an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that more information would have 
caused them to change their minds. 
This means that Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P and the 
estate of Mr P. But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI back because:
When the policy was sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mrs P received her portion of this refund directly into a bank account. She says that the 
executor of Mr Ps estate has never received the cheque Lloyds says it sent. Although 
Lloyds has confirmed the cheque number and date of issue, it has yet to confirm to this 
service whether or not it was cashed, which I will address further below.
Ill now come on to a few other points that Mrs P has raised.
Other issues relating to the mortgage PPI
Mrs P has said they didnt take out standard cover. As it was Payment Protection Plus, it had 
the added benefit of life cover. Mrs P has now been provided with a copy of the policy 
schedule and so hopefully is now persuaded that the policy was just in her husbands name 
and that it was just for accident, sickness and unemployment. The Plus part of the policy 
relates to the enhanced benefit that the policy provided. Because, as well as covering the 
monthly mortgage repayments it would pay out an additional £3 for every £1,000 of the 
original mortgage amount.Mrs P made a claim on the policy when her husband died although she doesnt recall this. 
She was sent a letter on 16 August 2010 explaining why the claim had been declined. I think 
its likely that, in her conversations with the insurer at this time, she would have been told 
that there was no life cover on the policy. Otherwise I think its likely that she would have 
made a complaint back when the claim was declined. 
The claim was declined as sickness claims of less than 60 days are excluded and Mr P was 
only unfit to work for 43 days before he died. Mrs P says she cant see anything to say that if 
someone succumbed to their illness that they werent entitled to the full 12 month benefit. 
However, at the point that Mr P died, it was no longer a sickness claim. At that point it would 
have become a life insurance claim, but the policy didnt provide life cover.
Mrs P has said she told Lloyds when her husband died in June 2009 and yet the premiums 
were still being taken until August 2010. However, following the declinature of the claim, Mrs 
P was provided with a refund of those premiums. Mrs P says she has been mis-led in this 
regard and would have claimed on the policy herself, as the other person named on the 
policy, instead of having the premiums returned. However, as I hope has been established, 
Mrs P was not named on the policy.
The Income Protection Policy
The benefit of the income protection policy was £1,107 per month and so Mrs P thinks that it 
should have paid out 12 x £1,107 upon Mr Ps death in 2009. That is not the case. Based on 
what Ive seen, the policy would have paid out 12 times the monthly premium of £47.18 at 
the time of death. However, this isnt relevant because, as already mentioned, the policy was 
cancelled in November 2003.
My final decision
My final decision is that the PPI was not mis-sold  Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P and the estate of Mr P.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. It has already paid Mrs P her portion of this.
However, Lloyds Bank PLC should check whether the cheque it sent to the executor in 
September 2019 was been cashed. If it has not been, Lloyds Bank PLC should re-issue the 
cheque, ensuring it has the correct contact details.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and the 
estate of Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman