DRN-3079544
The complaint
Mr B has complained that his pet insurance policy for his two dogs with Allianz Insurance Plc 
has continually increased unfairly at each renewal.
  
What happened
Mr B insured his two dogs since there were puppies from 2015 with Allianz. Since 2017 he 
has been unhappy that the premium kept increasing every year. Allianz said it hadnt done 
anything wrong in increasing the policy. However, it did give him a 5% discount in July 2019, 
but it didnt explain to Mr B that it would recoup this discount the following which mean the 
2020 renewal was much higher.
So, Mr B brought his complaint to us. Since then Mr Bs 2021 renewal had also increased. 
The investigator didnt think Allianz had done anything wrong as regards the price increase 
but that it didnt do enough to explain that prices may well increase given its a life time 
policy. He also didnt think it explained that it would recoup the discount given in July 2019 
so he thought Allianz should pay Mr B £200.
Allianz accepted the investigators Mr B didnt and so his complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as the investigator, Ill 
explain why.
As the investigator explained, this service has no ability to tell an insurer what price to 
charge for the premium, how to assess or rate any risk, what to consider as a risk or how in 
that way to conduct its commercial enterprise. That is not within our remit as we are not the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority is. Our role is to ensure that a consumer such as 
Mr B here, wasnt singled out unfairly and that any premium increases were in line with the 
underwriting guide which means that any consumer in the same situation as Mr B would be 
treated the same.
 
That is the case here from what Allianz has shown us. This is commercially sensitive 
information so I cant share it with Mr B, but Im satisfied the increases to Mr Bs premium 
are increases which another policyholder in his position would also have been charged, 
Therefore I dont consider Mr B has been singled out unfairly. Further I consider the 
premiums increases have been consistent in percentage terms too, which shows its not 
based on individual claims experiences too.
However I agree with the investigator that although the policy terms permit Allianz change 
the premium amount, the excess amount and the terms and conditions of the policy, I dont 
think Allianz gave Mr B enough information at the time he first took out his policy for his two 
dogs as to how it was likely it would operate. Given its a life time policy for his dogs that 
means any recurring condition either of his dogs might suffer will continue to be covered 
within the benefit level terms for so long as Mr B continues to renew his policy. If this wasnt 
a life time policy, that wouldnt be the case at all, as conditions generally are only covered for 
a year before they are then excluded from cover. So, for example if one of Mr Bs dog 
suffered from diabetes, in this policy that condition would be covered for the rest of the dogs 
life, but in a policy that wasnt a life time policy the diabetes would not be covered after the 
first year including any other conditions arising from or related to diabetes such as eye 
problems. Thats why life time policies are more expensive that annual pet policies. Further 
as the pets insured age, just like humans, they tend to suffer more ailments which require 
treatment. So as the pet ages, the risk profile changes to a chance of more claims, meaning 
premiums will invariably increase. I consider this should have been fully explained to Mr B 
before he bought his policy which might better helped managed his expectations.
So, its not like a motor policy or house insurance like Mr B has said. As unless you change 
your car, or your house or increase the value of the contents of your house, the risk itself 
doesnt change in the same way as pet who is increasing with age. So, theres no driver in 
life time pet policy to reward loyalty, as there is in say a motor policy, because in reality the 
insurer in a life time pet policy is risking a higher chance of paying out on a claim, year on 
year, than it would be on paying out under a motor policy. Indeed, as a cars age increases, 
the market value decreases year on year which means its not comparably with a life time 
pet policy. 
 
Its clear to me from what Mr B said is that he considers pet insurance essential for his 
peace of mind and a safety net should the worst happen. Hes also said his dogs wellbeing 
is paramount. Therefore, like the investigator I do think if Allianz had provided more clarity 
that premiums would likely increase over time, that given what Mr B said about how 
important insuring his dogs was, he would have still opted to buy this policy. All life time pet 
policies operate in very similar ways and its a competitive market, so even if Mr B had 
known more about the likelihood of premiums increasing, I do consider it very likely he would 
have still bought this cover. 
And sadly, as Mr B acknowledges, the fact he has made some claims, means its harder to 
find a comparable level of ongoing cover elsewhere.
I also consider Allianz should have properly explained how its discount given in July 2019 
was going to operate in that basically it was recouped the following year. I consider this 
omission to explain it properly certainly caused Mr B some unnecessary upset. 
I think consequently that compensation is payable by Allianz to Mr B and I agree with the 
amount suggested by the investigator. This is in line with what I have awarded in similar 
circumstances and I understand that Allianz has now paid this to Mr B following the 
investigators view.
  
My final decision
I do understand and appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, however for 
these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.I now require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mr B £200 compensation which I understand it 
has already done. If it transpires it hasnt done so, it must do now.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman