DRN-2784222
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) reduced his credit cards credit 
limit from £2,950 to £700 without reason and without giving him any notice. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mr F received a letter from Co-op letting him know that his credit limit 
had been reduced from £2,950 to £700. Mr F complains about Co-ops actions, as he says 
hes held his Co-op credit card for over 30 years without any financial troubles, and always 
paid the balance in full each month. 
Mr F says that Co-op has acted unfairly in an attempt to generate income, by causing him to 
exceed his credit limit and pay penalty charges for doing so.
In response to Mr Fs complaint, Co-op explained that it had reduced his limit in its capacity 
as a responsible lender, after receiving some adverse data from a credit reference agency in 
September 2020. Co-op gave Mr F the option to appeal its decision, but Im not aware that 
Mr F has done so to date. It also explained that the credit limit had been reduced in line with 
the terms and conditions of the credit card. 
Unhappy with Co-ops response, Mr F brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Fs complaint but didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. Whilst he could understand why Mr F was aggrieved at the credit limit reduction, he 
didnt think Co-op had acted unreasonably, or outside of the terms and conditions of the 
account. 
Mr F didnt agree, on the basis that Co-op should consider the potential detriment to its 
customers, despite the terms and conditions that are in place. 
So as the case still hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Co-op is entitled to reduce its customers credit limits according to its own risk appetite, 
or if it feels that it needs to, in order to safeguard its customer from harm or over 
exposure to borrowing. In this case its underwriting team has explained that it was 
provided with some adverse information from the credit reference agencies in 
September 2020. It further explained that this appeared to have cleared by January 
2021, and it gave Mr F the opportunity to ask it to re-review his limit. 
I certainly understand why Mr F is disappointed that Co-op has reduced his limit without 
any warning, especially given the long banking relationship he has with it. But having 
looked at the information on file, I can see that in the year before the limit reduction to 
£700 Mr Fs statement balance only exceeded £700 once  in July 2020. Throughout 
the previous year his statement balance varied month-on-month, but it was generally 
quite a lot lower than £700. Co-op says that credit limit reductions take into account 
various factors, such as credit reference agency information, previous spending history, 
and utilisation of the previous credit limit. As Co-op has explained that it relied on data 
from the credit reference agencies, and having reviewed Mr Fs account usage, Im 
satisfied that the reduction is reasonable and in line with Mr Fs general pattern of 
spending, whilst also leaving him some extra credit for flexibility.
  
Co-ops terms and conditions explain that it may occasionally reduce a customers credit 
limit, and on doing so it will let the customer know, although not always in advance of 
the reduction. It also explains that the new limit wont be below than the cards current 
balance. In Mr Fs case I can see that his statement balance on 3 September 2020 was 
£568.86, so the reduction to £700 on 8 September left him some available credit. Ive 
also seen that Co-op notified Mr F of the limit change on 8 September 2020, as it said it 
would. Its also important to bear in mind that credit isnt an entitlement, so a bank is 
able to withdraw it, in full or in part, if it chooses to. With this in mind, and whilst I know 
Mr F is unlikely to agree with me here, I dont find it unreasonable that Co-op chose to 
do that in this case. 
Mr F says that its unfair for a bank to hide behind its terms and conditions, without 
considering the detriment of its actions on its customers. And I have to agree; so Ive 
carefully considered any detriment to Mr F. But having done so, Im not persuaded that 
Mr F has suffered any detriment as a result of the limit reduction. Hes explained that he 
has access to other facilities, and he appears to be in a position to repay his full 
statement balance in full every month, thus leaving the £700 credit available for use the 
following month. I do understand that had Mr Fs circumstances been different he may 
have been disadvantaged as a result of this situation. But I have to make my decision 
on what has happened, and not what might have happened. Having done so, I havent 
concluded that Co-ops actions were unreasonable, nor that theyve had a negative 
impact on Mr F, other than being inconvenient.
I should reiterate that Co-op has reminded Mr F that hes able to ask it to review his credit 
limit if he so wishes.
Id like to reassure Mr F that Ive thought carefully about everything hes said before making 
my decision. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint. So Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr F but I dont require Co-op to put anything right. My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman