DRN-3727833
The complaint
The estate of Ms C complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to keep accurate 
records of the late Ms Cs fixed rate bond. The estate of Ms C says this resulted in her losing 
out on interest which her estate should be entitled to. The estate of Ms C is represented here 
by Ms Cs daughter.
What happened
The late Ms C held a fixed rate bond with Nationwide which was due to mature on 7 January 
2016. Ms C sent a bond maturity instruction from to Nationwide electing to withdraw £30,000 
from the bond and transfer this amount into a current account and to reinvest the remaining 
balance into a three-year fixed rate bond at 1.8%. The form Ms C completed appears to 
have been signed on 14 January 2016  despite there being some initially dispute over this. 
Nationwide wrote to Ms C on 10 February 2016 to explain that it had withdrawn the three-
year fixed rate bond at 1.8% and asked her to select a new product (the highest interest 
product being a three-year fixed rate bond at 1.6%). Sadly, Ms C died on 8 February 2016 
and as Nationwide was unaware of Ms Cs death until 7 January 2019, and had not received 
a further maturity instruction, the bond matured on 7 January 2016 into a fixed term bond 
maturity account.
Ms Cs daughter, on behalf of the estate of Ms C, complained to Nationwide in February 
2019 as she felt that Nationwide had failed to follow Ms Cs maturity instructions. She said 
the estate had missed out on potential interest because of this error. Ms Cs daughter said 
that Ms C had sent another maturity instruction form to Nationwide and that the maturity date 
on the bond had changed following a visit to a branch in 2010. 
Nationwide looked into the complaint and partially upheld it. It said that it had reviewed its 
records and was unable to find a different maturity instruction form other than that which it 
received on 1 February 2016 signed by Ms C on 17 January 2016. Nationwide also had no 
record of the bond maturity date changing in 2010. 
Nationwide explained that, despite it paying the correct amount of interest on the bond due 
to it not receiving a valid bond maturity form, it wanted to offer the amount of interest that 
wouldve been paid had it reinvested the bond at the available three-year fixed rate bond at 
1.6%. This amounted to £2,961.39 on a bond balance of £68,400.76. 
Nationwide also arranged for the money in the bond to be placed into a holding account, in 
line with its bereavement process, earning 1.75% from 7 January 2019 (when Nationwide 
were made aware of Ms Cs death) until closure of the account. It also apologised that it 
didnt initially fully address the complaint when the estate first complained and offered £200 
in recognition of this. 
The estate of Ms C remained unhappy as it felt Nationwide shouldve honoured the 1.8% 
interest rate Ms C had selected and so it referred the complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
An investigator at our service considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, she 
said:
Nationwide had already withdrawn the product Ms C had selected in her instructions 
dated 17 January 2016. Nationwide was entitled to do withdraw the products it 
provides. 
Shed seen a template of the letter Nationwide sent to Ms C on 10 February 2016 
asking Ms C to select a new product. 
She felt the offer Nationwide had made was fair and reasonable and didnt think it 
would be fair to ask Nationwide to pay 1.8% interest as the product wasnt available 
at the time Ms C gave her instructions. 
Our service is unable to make an award to an executor of a deceased consumer for 
distress or inconvenience caused to them but acknowledged Nationwide had made 
an offer of £200 for the poor service received.
The estate of Ms C didnt accept the investigators findings. In short, it said:
Ms C was not a taxpayer and so the offer shouldnt have tax deducted.
Ms C requested to withdraw £30,000 and so she missed out on available interest in 
her current account.
Ms C signed a second bond maturity instructions form, which was returned by 
registered Irish post on 27 January 2016.
The investigator considered these further comments but didnt change her opinion. She said 
that tax was deducted as tax deductions had always taken place on Ms Cs bonds - in line 
with HMRC guidelines. She also asked the estate to provide evidence of Ms C sending a 
second bond maturity instructions form but this wasnt forthcoming. 
Ms Cs daughter emailed this service on 12 August 2022 to explain that the estate was 
satisfied Nationwide had attempted to rectify its inadequate management of Ms Cs bond. 
But she requested an ombudsman consider the amount of compensation offered for the 
ongoing upset and reputational harm caused by Nationwides failings.
As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I dont necessarily think Nationwide ought to have done anything differently with Ms 
Cs bond, as theres no evidence suggest it received a valid bond maturity instructions form, 
I acknowledge that Nationwide has made an offer. Whilst it doesnt accept fault, its agreed to 
do something to put things right for the estate of Ms C. Ive not seen anything to suggest this 
isnt a fair and reasonable offer and it appears to be broadly in line with what this service 
would say to put things right. I understand that the estate of Ms C now accepts the 
compensation offered by Nationwide regarding any financial loss and so my decision will 
focus on whether any compensation, in addition to the £200 offered by Nationwide, is 
warranted for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Id firstly like to say Im to hear of Ms Cs passing away and to give Ms Cs daughter my 
condolences. Im also sorry to hear that dealing with Nationwide during this matter has 
caused her some distress. However, I think its helpful for me to explain why I cant ask 
Nationwide to pay compensation to her. Its not disputed that the bond in question belonged to Ms C, and so it was Ms C who would have been the eligible complainant. She alone had 
the required relationship with Nationwide and our service can only make awards for distress 
and inconvenience to eligible complainants. Whilst Ms Cs daughter can represent the estate 
of Ms C in this matter, she is not herself an eligible complainant. Therefore I cant award 
compensation to her for any impact incurred to her personally when representing the estate. 
I also appreciate that Ms Cs daughter has mentioned reputational harm. Its not clear 
whether shes referring to her own reputation or that of her late mothers. Ive already 
explained why I cant consider an award for her, but I should also explain that this service 
doesnt generally make awards for damage to reputation after someone has died. And Im 
afraid Ms Cs daughter hasnt provided persuasive evidence for me to make a fair and 
reasonable finding that Nationwide caused Ms C reputational damage whilst she was alive. 
 Putting things right
The estate of Ms C accepts Nationwides offer for financial loss. This is the amount of 
interest that wouldve been paid had it reinvested the bond at the available three-year fixed 
rate bond at 1.6%. Nationwide has explained that this amounts to £2,961.39. Therefore, 
Nationwide needs to pay this to the estate of Ms C on acceptance of this decision. 
I understand that Nationwide has offered £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
but, as Ive explained above, Im unable to make any findings on this. So if the estate of Ms 
C wants to accept this then it should contact Nationwide directly to arrange this payment.    
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should honour the offer that it made for 
the financial loss offered to the estate of Ms C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms C 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman