DRN-3196552
The complaint
Mr T complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has turned down a cancellation 
claim he made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 5 December 2020, Mr T took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a price 
comparison website. The policy was underwritten by Admiral and was intended to provide 
cover for a trip Mr T had planned to take between 24 December 2020 and 4 January 2021. 
During the online sales process, Mr T was directed from the price comparison website to 
Admirals own webpage.
Mr T began to suffer symptoms of Covid-19 on 16 December 2020 and three days later, the 
government imposed Covid-19 restrictions, which meant he couldnt travel outside of his 
local area. So Mr T cancelled his holiday and made a claim on his travel insurance policy.
Admiral turned down the claim. It said the policy specifically excluded events which couldve 
been anticipated when the contract was taken out. It concluded that Covid-19 had been a 
known event since 17 March 2020. And it stated that the policy specifically excluded 
cancellation claims which were down to Covid-19. It stated that its website had set out a 
clear warning that Covid-19 related claims wouldnt be covered. So it said the circumstances 
of Mr Ts claim werent covered.
Mr T was unhappy with Admirals decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
said that when he took out the policy, hed been concerned about the risk of his trip being 
cancelled due to Covid-19. So hed checked the information Admiral had provided during the 
online sales process and hed concluded that this risk had been covered. He acknowledged 
at the time he made his complaint in January 2021; a clear warning had been in place on 
Admirals website. But he said no such warning had been in place when he bought the 
insurance. He felt the information Admiral had set out in its sales process had been 
misleading.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. Shed reviewed Admirals 
sales process from around five weeks before hed taken out the policy and she noted thered 
been a clear warning that Covid-19 related claims wouldnt be covered at that point. This 
warning had been broadly the same as the warning in place on Admirals website in January 
2021.  So she felt it was more likely than not that there had been such a warning in place 
when Mr T took out the policy. She noted that the policy paperwork clearly set out both the 
Covid-19 exclusion clause and the anticipated events exclusion clause. So as Mr T had 
cancelled his trip as a result of Covid-19, she felt itd been fair for Admiral to turn down his 
claim.
Mr T disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, I think it was fair for Admiral to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ts policy and the available evidence to decide whether Admiral handled the 
claim fairly.
There are two key issues for me to decide. First, whether the policy excludes claims which 
were caused by Covid-19 and secondly, whether Admiral highlighted the exclusion at the 
point of sale.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr Ts contract with Admiral. 
Theres no dispute that Mr T cancelled his trip both because hed developed symptoms of 
Covid-19 around a week before he was due to depart and the government imposed local 
restrictions on movement three days later. The policy does cover cancellation due to a 
policyholders illness.
However, the policy also sets out a specific list of events which Admiral doesnt cover. The 
policy says:
We will not pay any claim which is in any way caused by or resulting from: 
An anticipated event or occurrence affecting your trip, which you knew would happen or 
could reasonably have expected to happen, and you were aware of it when your insurance 
started or renewed, or the date when you booked your trip, whichever is later.
Coronavirus -Coronavirus disease (COVID-19), severe acute respiratory syndrome 
coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) or any future mutation or variation of SARS-CoV-2. This 
exclusion does not apply to claims under Section 1- Emergency Medical and Repatriation.
Admiral has also provided us with a copy of the Insurance Product Information Document 
(IPID), which sets out an at-a-glance summary of the main features, benefits and exclusions 
of the insurance policy. Page 1 of the IPID includes a section called What is not insured? 
Both of the exclusion clauses Ive set out above are included within this section.
I think Admiral has clearly set out that it doesnt cover claims which are down to an event 
which a policyholder could reasonably foresee when they took out the policy. Or claims 
which are down to Covid-19, unless under the emergency medical and repatriation section of 
the policy.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 
17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised against 
all but essential travel abroad. And on 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed wide-
ranging restrictions on movement, which were commonly referred to as lockdown. 
Restrictions on travel and movement were relaxed and reintroduced throughout 2020, 
including a further lockdown from 5 November until 2 December 2020. So I think it was fair 
for Admiral to conclude that cancellation due to Covid-19 couldve been reasonably 
foreseeable at the point Mr T took out the policy  and indeed Mr T told us he was 
concerned about this possibility. So I think it was reasonable for Admiral to therefore rely on 
this exclusion clause to turn down Mr Ts claim.And as Ive explained above, the evidence suggests the reasons Mr T cancelled his trip were 
because he developed symptoms of Covid-19 and also because local restrictions were 
imposed on 19 December 2020. So I dont think it was unfair for Admiral to conclude that Mr 
Ts claim was directly down to Covid-19 and was therefore specifically excluded from policy 
cover.
The sales process
In my view, restrictions on cover for claims due to Covid-19 are significant and therefore, 
need to be clearly highlighted to policyholders both at the point of sale and in the policy 
documentation. In this case, Mr T was diverted from a price comparison website to Admirals 
online sales process. So I think Admiral needed to make it clear that cover for Covid-19 
related claims was limited. Mr T says such a warning wasnt given at the point of sale, 
although he accepts that in January 2021, warnings were given. Admiral says the following 
warning wouldve been displayed on 5 December 2020, at the point Mr T took out the policy:
Our Travel Insurance policy doesn't cover most claims relating to Covid-19, SARSCoV-2 or 
any future mutation or variation. This includes but isn't limited to cancelling or cutting short 
your trip, changes in FCDO advice after booking or any costs associated with being placed 
under quarantine in the UK or abroad. However, providing you're travelling to an area where 
no FCDO advice against travel exists we'll provide cover relating to medical emergencies 
and repatriation for Covid-19.
Ive thought very carefully about what parties have said. Ive also considered the information 
which was displayed as a part of Admirals sales process on 27 October 2020  around five 
weeks before the policy was taken out. This included a section titled Important Information 
about your cover and Coronavirus (Covid-19). The policy refers to new customers and 
states:
Our Travel Insurance policy doesn't cover most claims relating to Covid-19, SARSCoV-2 or 
any future mutation or variation. This includes but isn't limited to cancelling or cutting short 
your trip, changes in FCO advice after booking or any costs associated with being placed 
under quarantine in the UK or abroad. However, providing you're travelling to an area where 
no FCO advice against travel exists we'll provide cover relating to medical emergencies and 
repatriation for Covid-19.
It's clear then that a few weeks prior to Mr T taking out the policy, Admiral did include a clear 
and specific warning that most Covid-19 related claims, including cancellation claims, 
wouldnt be covered. A very similar warning was in place on its website in January 2021 too. 
On balance, it seems less likely that the warning wouldve been removed between 27 
October 2020 and January 2021 and then reinstated  especially given the reimposition of 
government restrictions during this period. Instead, on balance, I find it most likely that such 
a warning was included as part of Admirals sales process throughout this period and when 
Mr T took out the policy. And so Im satisfied that Admiral did clearly highlight the limitation 
on cover for Covid-19 at the point of sale.
Overall then, while I sympathise with Mr Ts position, as I appreciate hes been left out of 
pocket, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Admiral to turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman