DRN-1439704
 
The complaint
Mr P says he was mis-sold mobile phone insurance by Telefonica UK Limited.  
What happened
Mr P bought services from a well-known mobile phone store in September 2018. 
He says he was persuaded to also take out mobile phone insurance with Telefonica as part 
of that contract.
He says he was offered two policies. One with a £60 excess and a 3-5 working day 
turnaround if his phone had to be replaced. And another with a £90 excess but a promise  to 
replace a damaged phone in-store the same day. He says he opted for the latter.
Mr P made a claim in May 2019. This was on the Saturday prior to a Bank Holiday Monday. 
Telefonica delivered a replacement phone to Mr P on the Tuesday - three days after he'd 
made his claim.
He complained to Telefonica that they hadn't provided the service he was promised. They 
said he'd had to wait too long on one call when he was making the claim - and offered him 
£30 as a good will gesture to reflect that. 
But they pointed out that his policy didn't allow for same-day replacement. The staff in the 
store denied Mr P had been told what he said he'd been told. And they said he'd been sent 
the terms and conditions which made it clear there was no same-day replacement service.
Mr P wasn't happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didn't think Telefonica had done anything wrong.
Mr P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this isn't the crux of Mr P's complaint, but just to be clear at the outset, 
Telefonica have provided the level of service set out in their policy documents. 
It's clear from these that a customer with the policy Mr P has is entitled - when a claim is 
accepted - to expect Telefonica to deliver a replacement phone the next day. And it's clear 
Sundays and Bank Holidays aren't included. So, Mr P was entitled to expect a replacement 
phone on the Tuesday after his claim - and that's what he got. 
Mr P's complaint is about mis-sale. So it revolves entirely around what Mr P was told when 
he bought the insurance in-store and what information he was given soon after that. He says he was told he'd be able to get a replacement phone in-store the same day that he made a 
claim.
There's no recording of the conversation Mr P had with the salesperson. And there's no 
contemporaneous note of what was said. So I can't say with any certainty now what Mr P 
may have been promised. I have to decide on the balance of probability what's most likely to 
have happened. 
Telefonica don't offer a policy with same-day replacement, so the salesperson can't have 
confused two different policies when speaking to Mr P. All of their on-line sales material 
makes it clear what the turnaround times are for their policies. And the terms and conditions 
are clear. Telefonica have also pointed out that the stores - and the stock in them - are 
owned by a different company. So they can't use the in-store stock to replace their 
customers' phones. 
So if Mr P was told what he says, the salesperson would have been offering him a level of 
service they knew - or should have known - didn't exist. They'd have to have been new to 
the job (but willing to talk with authority about products they didn't know), or very stupid, or 
deliberately lying.
Those things are all possible, of course, but it does make it less likely than if, for example, a 
salesperson were confusing two similar policies. 
Mr P has had a previous insurance policy with the same company, so it's likely he will have 
known what kind of service they offer. Again, this doesn't mean Mr P couldn't have been 
pleasantly surprised to be offered a same-day replacement service, but it does suggest he 
might have questioned the salesperson a little bit more if he seemed to be getting something 
far better than he'd had previously.
Telefonica's records also show that Mr P was sent an email with his policy documents two 
days after he bought the policy. This email advised he could cancel without penalty within a 
14-day cooling-off period. This is in line with Telefonica's process - which automatically 
requires them to send this email to a customer who's just bought a policy. 
Mr P says he never received the email. He's sent us a screenshot showing his email inbox 
for the relevant dates - with no email showing from Telefonica. 
However, Telefonica's records also show the email was successfully delivered. And they 
have the correct email address details for Mr P. Bearing that in mind, I have to conclude it's 
more likely than not that Mr P received the email. He may have deleted it inadvertently. His 
inbox screenshot - taken recently - can't be taken as proof that the email wasn't received.  
Mr P has recently - after our investigator gave their view on the case - provided us with a 
signed statement from a friend, who he says was with him in the store on the day in 
question. This says the friend remembers Mr P being told he could have a same-day 
replacement policy if he accepted a £90 excess.
I believe Mr P now thinks he was offered a same-day service. And I believe his friend thinks 
he recalls the conversation. I have to take into account though the fact that the statement 
from Mr P's friend is dated fully 15 months after the date of the alleged conversation in-store. 
It's not impossible that memories might be slightly stretched at that distance, especially 
when it comes to recalling whether the offer was for same-day or next-day replacement.
Taking all of this into account, I can't conclude it's more likely than not Mr P was misled in-
store. And I can't conclude Telefonica did anything wrong, when it appears they sent an email to Mr P - in line with their standard process - giving him the policy documents and 
advising he could cancel within 14 days. 
So, I'm not going to uphold this complaint. 
If it's any consolation to Mr P, even if I did find he'd been misled, our approach would be to 
put him back in the position he would have been in if the business hadn't got things wrong. 
I'll explain what this would mean in this case.
Mr P appears to like to have phone insurance. If he hadn't bought the policy with the £90 
excess, I think it's likely he'd have bought the other policy offered (£60 excess) or similar 
from elsewhere. It's not usual for these policies to offer same-day replacement - at least not 
at that price. 
If Mr P had taken that route, he'd have paid similar premiums, paid a £60 excess when he 
made the claim and waited at least the same amount of time for a replacement. And so we'd 
have been looking at a financial loss of £30 which we might then seek to return to Mr P. 
Telefonica have paid Mr P £30 as a good will gesture.
And again, even if I were to conclude Mr P had been misled (which I don't), if we then look at 
the inconvenience Mr P suffered - and compare to the service he said he was expecting - 
he's been two extra days without a phone. That might be slightly inconvenient, but we 
wouldn't be looking at a high level of compensation.  
In any case, I should stress, Mr P's claim was accepted and Telefonica replaced his phone. 
Given that he's benefited from the policy, it was never going to be the case that we asked 
Telefonica to refund all the premiums, which is what Mr P is suggesting.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman