DRN-2064824
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money refused to make a claim 
under the Direct Debit Guarantee (DDG) and didnt cancel his direct debit.
What happened
Mr S says he wrote to Virgin Money in June 2019 asking it to make a claim under the DDG 
and refund payments made to a business I will call B. He says he also asked Virgin Money 
to cancel the direct debit, but it placed undue scrutiny on him by asking questions about why 
he made the request. Mr S says if there is an error, he is entitled to a refund under the DDG 
and says he has been caused inconvenience and distress. And would like compensation 
and a refund of fees and for the DDG claim to be made.
Virgin Money says it wrote to Mr S following his letter to it and asked him to complete a form 
and send it back to it in the enclosed prepaid envelope. It says it asked for further 
information about why Mr S wished to make the DDG claim and says without that 
information it would not have been able to do so. Virgin Money says Mr S didnt send back 
the form and says the last payment to B was in 2018.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Virgin Money was entitled to ask Mr S for the information and as he didnt provide it 
was reasonably entitled to conclude it could not make a claim under the DDG. The 
investigator also didnt think Mr Ss letter told Virgin Money to cancel the direct debit.
Mr S says he sent the letter to Virgin Moneys complaints department and it was obvious he 
wanted the direct debit to be cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Virgin Money has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake.
There is no dispute here that Mr S wrote to Virgin Money in June 2019 asking it to make a 
claim under the DDG. And that Virgin Money received that letter and asked Mr S some days 
later to complete a form and send it back. Im satisfied that without further information it 
would have been impossible for Virgin Money to have made a claim under the DDG and 
under that scheme Mr S is not entitled to automatically receive any payments back unless 
certain conditions are satisfied. Im satisfied that Mr Ss letter did not contain enough 
information about the dispute or the reasons why Mr S thought he should receive a refund of 
the payments he must have set up by direct debit.
So, Im satisfied that Virgin Money didnt make a mistake by not making the DDG claim and 
Im also satisfied having looked carefully at Mr Ss letter to Virgin Money that he didnt ask it 
to cancel the direct debit. I appreciate Mr S says it was obvious what he wanted but I think 
its up to him to be clear what his instructions were, and if he wanted the direct debit to be 
cancelled then he ought to have told Virgin Money exactly that. In any event it doesnt 
appear that payments have been made to B since 2018.
Overall I find Virgin Money fairly explained why and what information it needed to make the 
DDG claim and fairly enclosed a prepaid envelope to assist Mr S. I dont think Mr S has 
explained why he couldnt complete the form and I dont think Virgin was placing undue 
scrutiny on him but was making a reasonable request. For those reasons I cant fairly order 
Virgin Money to refund any payments or pay compensation as Mr S would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman