DRN-2433417
The complaint
 Mr W complains on behalf of his company, who Ill refer to as company Q. Mr W is unhappy 
about Advanced Payment Solutions Limiteds (APS), decision to review, suspend and close 
company Qs account.  
What happened
 In April 2019, company Qs account received a credit which flagged the account for review. 
APS suspended the account while they carried out their review. Mr W didnt realise the 
account was suspended until he tried to use it in July 2019. 
In July 2019 APS asked Mr W to provide proof of payment for the credit received into the 
account. Mr W submitted proof of payment, but APS said the document wasnt clear and 
asked for another copy. Mr W submitted another copy, however APS remained unsatisfied 
with the quality of the copy. APS asked Mr W to provide a remittance slip to show company 
Qs entitlement to the money. Mr W provided this and APS accepted it. 
Around 26 July 2019, APS completed their review. APS decided to end their business 
relationship with company Q and gave 60 days notice to close. APS sent company Q a 
cheque with the remaining money left in company Qs account. Mr W says he couldnt cash 
the cheque because he wasnt able to open another bank account for company Q straight 
away and thought APS had added a black marker to company Q. 
Mr W complained to APS. He said their actions had caused financial loss to company Q 
because they didnt tell him about the review. APS didnt uphold company Qs complaint. 
They said they were entitled to review, suspend and block the account.
Mr W referred company Qs complaint to our service. He also said the actions of APS had 
caused his own mental health to deteriorate. 
The investigator who reviewed company Qs account thought it should be upheld. He 
recognised APS were entitled to review and block the account and said APS werent obliged 
to tell company Q about it. He was also satisfied APS were acting in line with their terms and 
conditions when closing company Qs account. And he said it wasnt fair to hold APS 
responsible for Mr W not being able to open another account for company Q. But the 
investigator thought APS had caused delays when requesting the proof of entitlement for the 
payment. He thinks they should have asked for this when they started their review in April 
2019. He also recognised Mr Ws mental health had suffered as a result of APSs actions 
and said they could have been clearer with him about what proof of payment they required. 
The investigator recommended APS pay Mr W £150 compensation.
Mr W responded to the investigators opinion and said company Q had lost out on around 
£650. So thats the amount he thinks APS should pay him.
APS responded and didnt think any compensation was due. They said company Qs 
account wasnt used often as Mr W only became aware of the block in July 2019. And they 
said the remittance advice they asked for is an accepted proof of payment.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
In November 2020, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
The review and block
Ive considered APSs actions when reviewing and suspending company Qs account. APS 
are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied APS were acting in line with these 
obligations when reviewing and suspending company Qs account. 
I recognise Mr W thinks APS should have told him when they decided to review the account. 
But they arent obliged to give notice or an explanation when they review and block an 
account. However, Id like to reassure Mr W that based on the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied APS acted appropriately in the circumstances.
The time taken to review
Ive thought about how long APSs review took. Im aware APS started the review in April 
2019 and blocked company Qs account straight away, and the review was finalised in July 
2019 once theyd received proof of payment. I wouldnt expect a business to carry out a 
review in a certain time, however I must be satisfied APS havent caused any unnecessary 
delays. APS have shared information about their review, and I cant agree they were 
proactive. I would have expected APS to start their review straight away, especially as they 
blocked company Qs account. 
I appreciate APSs comments around the account not being used often, and Im aware Mr W 
didnt realise the account was blocked until July 2019. However, if APS thought it was 
appropriate to carry out a review, they should have done so without any undue delays. Ive 
also seen that as soon as Mr W was asked to provide proof of payment, he did so almost 
immediately. I appreciate the first two documents APS didnt accept, however Mr W was 
able to provide an acceptable document less than two days later. Therefore, I think its more 
likely than not, if APS asked for this documentation in April 2019, the review would have 
been completed sooner.
The closure and reasons
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr W, on behalf of company Q, decided to stop banking with APS, he wouldnt have to 
explain why. APS can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms 
and conditions of the account. APS have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
company Qs business account and Im pleased to see they gave 60 days notice.
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. APS exercised their 
right to no longer offer Mr Ws business banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest 
that APS has made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently.
Return of the funds
APS sent company Q a cheque for the remaining funds in the account. Im aware Mr W says 
he couldnt cash this cheque straight away as he wasnt able to open another account in 
company Qs name. I recognise Mr W thinks APS may have added some sort of marker to 
company Q to stop him from opening an account, however I havent seen any evidence of this. Therefore, I cant hold APS responsible for company Q being unable to open another 
account where theyre able to cash a cheque.
Compensation and additional refunds
I recognise this has been a really difficult time for company Q and I appreciate why Mr W 
has asked for compensation. However, to fairly ask APS to pay compensation, Id need to be 
satisfied that they acted unreasonably. I appreciate Mr W has said company Q has lost out 
on around £650 because of APSs actions, but Im not satisfied of these losses based on the 
evidence Ive seen. 
However, I do recognise the delays caused by APS, and I think this would have had an 
overall impact on company Q. Im satisfied that if APS had asked for the proof of payment in 
April 2019, the account would have been unblocked prior to July 2019. And while APSs 
decision to close the account would have likely been the same, Mr W would have known 
about the closure sooner and could have acted on opening another account or referring 
company Qs business elsewhere. Because of that, I think APS should pay company Q £100 
compensation.
I understand Mr W has spent a lot of time and effort on this complaint, hes also explained 
how its affected his mental health which Im deeply sorry to hear.  No doubt Mr W feels he is 
due some personal compensation because of whats happened, and the way APS have 
handled things. But I cant consider that. The relationship APS had was with company Q, not 
Mr W as a consumer. And the complaint surrounds what happened to the business account 
company Q held. In other words, Mr W represents company Q, but he doesnt have an 
applicable customer relationship in his own right. He may feel he and his company are one 
and the same, and this is understandable, but under the dispute resolution rules (DISP) in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook this is not the case. Simply put, a limited 
company cannot experience personal distress or upset at the hands of APS. So, the impact 
on Mr Ws mental health are not losses experienced by company Q.
Overall
 
Overall, Im satisfied APS reviewed, blocked and subsequently closed company Qs account 
in line with their terms and conditions and gave enough notice. However, I do think APS 
caused delays while reviewing which had an overall impact on company Q. So I think they 
should pay company Q £100 compensation.
While I appreciate the impact this situation has had on Mr W as an individual, I cant 
consider that as part of this complaint. 
So I thought APS should pay £100 to company Q to put things right.
APS responded to my provisional decision and didnt have anything to add. Mr W responded 
on behalf of company Q and didnt provide any further arguments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As neither party had another further evidence to provide, I see no reason to depart from my 
initial findings set out above and in my provisional decision.
Putting things right APS should pay company Q £100 compensation.
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
should do the following:
Pay company Q £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask company Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman