The complaint
Company P complains about the delays Lloyds Bank PLC caused when it was opening a 
business bank account. Company P says it lost out on business as a result.
What happened
Company P is a new company and applied to set up a business bank account with Lloyds on 
29 January 2020. The director hadnt heard anything and chased Lloyds on 24 February 
2020. Lloyds explained that it needed some more identification before it could open the 
account. The director called again on 28 February 2020 asking how he could provide the 
identification and he was told to do this in branch. The account opened on 6 March 2020.
During this time Company P was in the process of securing a client contract worth around 
£150,000. However, the directors have complained because the contract was lost as the 
business bank account wasnt set up in time. This led to the potential client choosing not to 
use the business. Company P would like Lloyds to pay a proportion of its losses from this 
contract.
Lloyds acknowledged that it shouldve contacted Company P around 6 February 2020, when 
it realised it didnt have the required identification on file. But it didnt do so  this is why 
there was a delay. Only when it received the identification could it process the account 
application  which takes up to ten working days. It paid Company P £250 for the 
inconvenience caused by this delay  and for the misinformation it had given it.
Our investigator felt Lloyds offer was fair and reasonable. She explained there wasnt 
anything to show that the reason the potential client pulled out of the contract was due to the 
bank account not being open in time. Company P disagreed. The director explained the 
emails show the potential client was going to go ahead with the contract. And that this 
means its clear the only thing that had changed was the account wasnt opened. He also 
explained the potential client couldnt sign the contract as he wasnt able to pay Company P 
without account details. As a result, Company P doesnt have any income. Company P 
asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed by all parties that Lloyds caused a delay when opening Company Ps account. 
What I need to decide is whether it has done enough to put things right. I think it has and Ill 
explain why.
From the evidence Ive seen, Lloyds shouldve contacted Company P around 6 February 
2020 to explain that it needed further identification. If it had done so, then its likely the 
DRN-1854911account wouldve opened earlier. However, I cant say when with any certainty. But its clear 
theres been inconvenience caused as the director had to chase Lloyds to prompt this issue 
coming to light. I think £250 compensation is fair and reasonable for this. At most there was 
a three-week delay in the account opening. I can see Lloyds told Company P on a Monday 
that further identification was required but this wasnt then submitted until the Friday. So, I do 
think both parties contributed to the overall delay.
Company Ps main complaint is that it was securing a contract with a potential client worth a 
lot of money. But this fell through because it didnt have its bank account opened in time. Ive 
considered whether, on balance, it was Lloyds error that led to Company P not securing its 
client contract.
Company P has provided emails to show on 27 February 2020 its potential client wanted to 
go ahead with a contract. The email from the potential client also says the proposal would be 
discussed in meetings with others. Company P responded on the same day saying it would 
wait until the following week for contact and would draft up a contract in the meantime. 
Theres no other evidence to show what happened after this point, or the reasons the 
potential client chose not to go ahead. 
Company P says the potential client pulled out of the agreement because it didnt have an 
account open, and therefore couldnt make the payment to it. So, the potential client chose 
to go elsewhere. But its also said it is the only business that could provide what this client 
was looking for, so the only reason for the contract to have not gone ahead is due to the 
banking issues. But it hasnt provided evidence to show this was the reason. Ive also noted 
the date of these client emails was 27 February 2020. At this point it had been three days 
since Lloyds told Company P it needed to provide further identification. Id have expected 
Company P to have acted on this earlier if it was relying on the account being opened to 
take on new business. But Company P didnt provide further information until 28 February 
2020. The account was then opened a week later.
Company P has said the potential clients didnt want to wait longer and took their business 
elsewhere. But the account was opened eight days after the potential client had indicated 
they would go ahead, and the same week that Company P was expecting a response from 
the client. Company P hasnt provided us with any evidence to show why its potential clients 
pulled out of the contract. So, on balance, theres not enough for me to say it was the delay 
in the account opening that was the cause of the contract not going ahead.
I understand there was some misinformation given and that Company P is unhappy about its 
Data Subject Access Request. I think our investigator dealt with these points fully in her view 
and explained that as a limited company, Company P doesnt have the same data protection 
rights as an individual.
Im sorry to hear of the difficult time the directors of Company P are having, particularly in the 
current climate. But I cant say this was a result of the delay Lloyds caused when it opened a 
business bank account with it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Lloyds offer of £250 is fair and 
reasonable so I wont be asking it to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman