DRN-4276223
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) 
unfairly declined a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Miss C took out a policy with C&G for her dog, T, on 5 October 2020. The policy has since 
been renewed annually.
In April 2022 Miss C made a claim to C&G after T had a knee operation on his right hind leg 
due to a patella luxation (dislocated kneecap). C&G declined the claim on the ground that it 
was a pre-existing condition because the dog had been lame in his left hind leg in October 
2020. Miss C said the lameness in the left hind leg appeared to have resolved itself after a 
course of pain relief and so wasnt a pre-existing condition. After Miss C brought a complaint 
to this service, another Ombudsman upheld the complaint. She didnt think the lameness 
noted in 2020 and the patella luxation in 2022 were the same condition. 
In August 2022 T was lame again in his right hind leg and the vet diagnosed a torn cruciate 
ligament. T had surgery for that in September 2022. Miss C made a claim to C&G for that. 
C&G declined the claim. It said T had a pre-existing condition because he had been lame 
previously in his left hind leg and the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions. 
After Miss C brought another complaint to this service, C&G said it was willing to settle the 
claim in line with the policy terms. It said it would consider this a continuation claim of that 
made for the patella luxation because it thought the right stifle joint had been weakened by 
the dislocated kneecap and subsequent surgery. It offered to pay £1,229.72 being the 
balance of the policy limit of £4,000 plus 8% interest from 3 October 2022 being the date 
when the claim was made to the date of acceptance of the offer. Our Investigator thought 
this was reasonable.
As Miss C didnt agree that the second claim was a continuation of the first, the matter has 
been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of the policy state that up to £4,000 will be paid in respect each condition during 
the policy period. I need to decide whether C&G has treated Miss C fairly in saying that the 
patella luxation and the cruciate ligament damage were part of the same injury.
According to the clinical history the patella surgery was carried out on 27 April 2022. On 21 
May 2022 Miss C told the vet that T was limping a little and had a sore right hind leg. After 
examination the vets assessment was that this was possibly due to an inflammation related 
to injury or infection. On 24 May the vet was concerned about cellulitis given there was 
significant swelling of lower limb. In August T was due to start physiotherapy but that was 
cancelled due to Ts lameness.  On 14 September the vet noted a positive cranial draw in 
right hind leg. I understand that is used to diagnose a ruptured cranial cruciate ligament in 
dogs. On 17 September after cruciate surgery Miss C said T was happier this time 
compared to the last operation he had.
Unfortunately the vet who treated T before his cruciate surgery could not be contacted for his 
opinion as to whether the patella luxation and torn cruciate ligament should be treated as 
one condition. The vet who operated on T for cruciate surgery commented as follows:
In my experience, most insurance companies will class patella instability as a separate 
condition to cruciate disease. It is possible for some dogs to develop patella instability as a 
result of a cranial cruciate injury. This is due the increased internal tibial rotation caused by 
the loss of the support and stabilisation from the cranial cruciate ligament. This was not the 
case for [T], as his patella instability preceded the cruciate injury. From my understanding, 
[T] initially did well and his lameness improved following his original patella surgery. It was 
only later that he deteriorated and was diagnosed with a failed cranial cruciate ligament. This 
seems to suggest that the two conditions were independent from one another. The original 
implants used to correct the luxating patella had to be removed to allow use to perform the 
TPLO surgery.
According to C&Gs in-house specialist Ts right stifle (knee) had been weakened by the 
patella luxation and subsequent surgery which led to the cruciate ligament rupture. 
Where there is conflicting evidence, I have to weigh up which is more persuasive. There are 
two factors which lead me to believe that its more likely than not that the patella luxation and 
cruciate repair operation should be regarded as the same condition. Firstly, theres the fact 
that there was only a four-month gap between the patella operation and the dog being 
diagnosed with a cruciate rupture in the same leg. Secondly T doesnt seem to have made a 
good recovery from the first operation. He was limping for at least another month and 
presumably was still not right in August 2022 which was why he was due to have 
physiotherapy treatment. 
On balance Im satisfied that it is not unreasonable for the patella luxation and the cruciate 
rupture to be regarded as the same condition and subject to the monetary limit of £4,000. 
That means a further £1,229.72 is due to Miss C.
In view of the delay in settling this part of the claim I also think its fair that C&G should pay 
8% interest on the settlement amount of £1,229.72 from 3 October 2022 being the date 
when the claim was made to the date of acceptance of the offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to pay Miss C the sum of £1,229.72 plus simple interest at 
a rate of 8% on that amount from 3 October 2022 being the date when the claim was made 
to the date of acceptance of the offer. 
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss C how much 
its taken off. It should also give Miss C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman