DRN-4523792
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with 
their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G bought a travel insurance policy, underwritten by IPA. 
They travelled abroad and unfortunately Mrs G was taken to hospital due to pain on 2 
August. The treating specialist asked for a guarantee of payment (GOP) and said Mrs G 
needed an MRI scan but IPA said it couldnt authorise this until it had received and reviewed 
a report from her GP, which it requested on 3 August.
The GP sent partial information to IPA on 3 August which IPA forwarded to its medical team. 
On 4 August Mr and Mrs G confirmed they had returned to their accommodation as they 
couldnt afford to pay and claim, as suggested by IPA. IPA then re-requested Mrs Gs 
medical history from her GP to cover the 12-month period it had initially asked for and once 
this was reviewed, it authorised the claim and paid the hospital costs. 
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with IPAs process for checking Mrs Gs medical history and 
also that they had been asked to pay £100 excess. IPA apologised and offered £50 
compensation for any distress caused but maintained that the excess was payable and the 
GOP couldnt be provided to the hospital until the GP had provided the information 
requested, to rule out any pre-existing medical conditions.
Unhappy with IPAs offer of compensation, they referred their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that IPAs offer of £50 compensation 
was reasonable and that it hadnt acted unfairly in requesting information from the GP or 
confirming that the excess was payable.  
Mr and Mrs G disagreed and in summary, have said that the policy wasnt clear about pre-
existing conditions and IPA took too long to authorise the claim. This means that Mrs G 
wasnt able to have an MRI scan to determine the root cause of her pain and she is still 
waiting. They said IPA should pay for Mrs G to have the MRI scan privately as they feel the 
delay in Mrs G having the MRI scan is due to IPAs failures.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms say pre-existing medical conditions arent covered. This means that 
IPA is entitled to request information and confirmation from Mrs Gs GP about her 
medical history to rule out any pre-existing conditions. Im satisfied that the policy 
information is clear about this. And it isnt an unusual process for insurers to request 
information from a GP before authorising treatment. So what I need to consider is 
whether IPA acted promptly in obtaining the information it needed to provide 
authorisation. 
Based on the timeline provided, I think IPA did ask Mrs Gs GP for information 
promptly. But the GP did not initially send medical history for the full period which 
was requested (12 months). I cannot attribute this delay or failure to IPA. As the full 
history wasnt provided by the GP when first requested, this caused delays and IPA 
had to send a further request. 
Mr and Mrs G say the decision to approve any necessary treatment should be 
instantaneous, especially in emergencies. Depending on the type of emergency and 
treatment required, I would expect an insurer to act accordingly. In this case, I think 
IPA provided a reasonable alternative and said Mr and Mrs G could pay and claim.  
But they were unable to do this as they didnt have the funds  this isnt something I 
can hold IPA responsible for either. 
Additionally the policy is clear that £100 excess applies to medical expenses so I 
dont think IPA did anything wrong or acted unfairly here either.
Mr and Mrs G have said that Mrs G is still waiting for an MRI scan and IPA should 
pay for this privately. But I dont think this is fair or reasonable as I think IPA acted 
appropriately and in line with the policy terms and conditions. The policy provides 
cover for emergency medical treatment whilst on a trip. And isnt designed to provide 
general medical insurance to diagnose problems. 
IPA offered £50 compensation to Mr and Mrs G for the distress they experienced. But 
overall, I think IPA acted promptly and fairly so I wont be asking it to do anything 
further. If Mr and Mrs G wish to now accept the compensation, they should contact 
IPA directly.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman