DRN-3735646
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) 
are asking them to pay their fees for mis-sold PPI claims they hadnt been authorised to 
make.
What happened
In 2019 Mr S and Mrs S instructed FTR to pursue mis-sold PPI claims on their behalf. And 
they had successful claims with two of their lenders. But for another lender Ill call L they 
were told the letter of authority (LoA) from FTR wasnt valid. Mr S and Mrs S said FTR asked 
them to sign further LoAs  and to complete PPI questionnaires, but they didnt. Instead they 
said they worked directly with L. 
In September 2021 Mr S and Mrs S received a solicitors letter saying theyd failed to provide 
the final response letter from L. And that if they failed to send the final response letter court 
action could be taken. Mr S and Mrs S complained to FTR.
FTR said Mr S and Mrs S had signed LoAs in May 2019 instructing them to pursue mis-sold 
PPI claim(s) with L. FTR said theyd submitted these to L and at the beginning of 
November 2019 L acknowledged receipt of the LoA  and confirmed it had been received 
before the August 2019 deadline for making such claims. They said L had incorrectly told 
them that there wasnt a valid LoA for the mis-sold PPI claim. And when theyd asked Mr S 
and Mrs S to complete another LoA they hadnt done this. FTR said theyd submitted Mr S 
and Mrs S claims to L and the claims were successful. As L hadnt told them about the 
outcome of the mis-sold PPI claim theyd instructed solicitors to ask Mr S and Mrs S for this 
information.
Mr S and Mrs S werent happy with FTRs response and referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator said that L hadnt accepted FTR as Mr S and Mrs S representative and so 
he didnt think the claims success was because of the actions taken by FTR.
FTR didnt agree, they said L acknowledged their submission and gave them the results of 
their PPI search which showed that they did have valid LOAs as without them there would 
have been a breach of the Mr S and Mrs S data. FTR asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I intend to uphold this complaint  Ill explain why.
FTR feel strongly that theyd been authorised by Mr S and Mrs S as theyd agreed to their 
terms and conditions. And that it was their submission of letters of complaint that meant Mr S 
and Mrs S PPI claims were successful. Mr S and Mrs S dont accept that theyd authorised 
FTR as they were told there wasnt a valid LoA.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given.
Having considered the evidence I can see that Mr S and Mrs S had several accounts, either 
jointly or solely with L. and that L has confirmed that they were mis-sold PPI. The dispute 
is whether Mr S and Mrs S had authorised FTR to act for them in pursuing mis-sold PPI 
claim(s) with L. And whether FTR has treated Mr S and Mrs S fairly and reasonably in their 
actions with them.
I can see that L had three separate PPI mis-sale claims for Mr S and Mrs S. I will outline 
what I can see happened with each.
From the evidence Ive seen, its not in dispute that Mr S and Mrs S signed LoAs in May 
2019 that authorised FTR to check whether theyd any PPI policies with L. Ive seen the 
LoAs and the one for Mr S is headed Policy Holder to Complete. The one for Mrs S is 
headed Joint Policy Holder to complete. Both LoAs were submitted and L told FTR that 
PPI had been found for each of the three accounts in June 2019. 
FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to continue 
to provide you with the claims service
In July 2019 I can see FTR  told Mr S for agreement *3192 that PPI had been found and 
they provided a link for Mr S to complete a PPI questionnaire to support his claim that the 
PPI had been mis-sold. In the same month I can see FTR told Mr S and Mrs S for 
agreements *1126 and *4685 that PPI had been found and again provided the link for them 
to complete a PPI questionnaire in support of their mis sold PPI claims. 
The instructions FTR gave to Mr S and Mrs S for each of the agreements said:
To progress your claim for mis-sold PPI before the deadline of August 2019, please  
complete the following 4 steps
One of the four steps was to sign and complete the PPI questionnaire. And went on to say:
On receipt of your signed questionnaire, we will send a bespoke letter of complaint to the 
lender.
FTR has said that they didnt receive any completed PPI questionnaires from Mr S or Mrs S. 
So, I think at this point as neither Mr S or Mrs S had completed the four steps theyd been 
instructed to do they would have been of the understanding that their claim(s) wouldnt 
progress. And that FTR wouldnt continue to provide their claims service. But in August 
2019, despite not having any signed and completed PPI questionnaires FTR  sent a letter of 
complaint to L for each agreement.
I can see at the beginning of November 2019 L told FTR they were investigating 
agreement *1126, for Mr S and would provide their final response by 18 December 2019.  But Mr S was told by L a few days later, in early November 2019 that for all three accounts 
*4685, *1126 and *3192  they didnt hold a valid LoA for FTR to represent him. And I think 
this would have reinforced Mr S understanding that FTR werent progressing his mis-sold 
PPI claims. I can also see that at the same time, in early November 2019 FTR was also told 
by L that they didnt have a valid LoA and that they would only deal with Mr S direct. 
Ive considered FTRs terms and conditions:
No cancellation fee will be charged if you decide to terminate this agreement  prior to the 
claim being successful however if we send a Letter of Complaint and you go on to receive an 
offer from the lender our fee will be due
As neither Mr S nor Mrs S followed the instructions, they were given by FTR in July 2019 to 
progress their mis-sold PPI claims. I dont think FTR had the authority from either Mr S or 
Mrs S to continue with their claims service. And I dont think FTR had any authorisation to 
send any letters of complaint to L. I think by not following FTRs instructions in July 2019 
Mr S and Mrs S effectively cancelled FTRs claims service for all three agreements.
So, as I dont think FTR had the authority to send the letter of complaints I dont think they 
can claim any fee for Mr S and Mrs S claims as I think these had been cancelled.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim to 
waive any fees in relation to mis-sold PPI claims with lender L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman