DRN-1556395
The complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out alongside 
two separate mortgages. Mr and Mrs P say that other businesses now trading as Yorkshire 
Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them the PPI in around May 1995 and in January 2000.
To make things simple I will refer to YBS throughout this decision for both the sales.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out two separate mortgages and they bought PPI policies alongside 
them.
They have told us in summary, that they thought they took out the mortgage through a 
broker and were led to believe that they had to take out the PPI in order to get their 
mortgage. They say they werent asked about pre-existing medical conditions and they 
trusted the broker to fill in the right forms and they just signed.
Our adjudicator didnt think these policies has been mis-sold and she didnt uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ps complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with this view and asked that their matter be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, but Im afraid I havent upheld their complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
There are two sales so to make things simpler Ill deal with each sale separately.
As the sales took place a long time ago, not all the paperwork from the time is available. 
Thats not surprising or unusual as businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. 
But where the evidence is incomplete, I will make my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 that is I will consider whats more likely to have happened, taking into account any 
evidence that is available, what the parties have told me and thinking about what we know 
about how the business conducted these types of sales at the time.
Sale of PPI in May 1995
This policy covered both Mr and Mrs P if they were off work because of an accident, 
sickness or if they lost their jobs. It cost £13.32 per month and would have paid them a 
monthly benefit of £200 if they made a successful claim.
When Mr and Mrs P complained they told us that they were just given a leaflet to sign as it 
would help with the mortgage. They say they took it out as it was the best thing to do and 
they didnt know better at the time as they werent told the PPI was optional. Theyve also 
said it was a condition of the mortgage they took out the policy. 
So, the first thing Ive thought about was whether they were given a fair choice. Sometimes 
policies were compulsory in order to get a particular mortgage deal. There was nothing 
wrong in that as Mr and Mrs P could have chosen a different mortgage if they didnt want the 
PPI. As there is no paperwork available, I cant say for sure what they were told but YBS 
have provided some screenshots  these record that there was no mandatory insurance for 
this mortgage. And this type of policy wasnt usually sold as a condition of the mortgage. On 
balance, I dont think its likely that it was a condition of this mortgage to take out the cover.
 
Mr and Mrs P paid for the policy per month so if theyd wanted to question it, they could have 
done at any time- I havent seen evidence that they did so. They could also have cancelled 
the policy at any time. Its likely they applied for the PPI separately to their mortgage on a 
separate form. I think Mr and Mrs P would have chosen the benefit they wanted. Following 
completion of the leaflet they would more likely have been sent the relevant paperwork 
setting out how much they were paying and the cover they had taken out. On balance, I think 
its more likely that they chose to take out the cover to protect their mortgage repayments 
and they would have known they could refuse it if they didnt want it - even if its 
understandable if they dont remember everything about the sale after so long.
I dont think YBS advised Mr and Mrs P to take out the cover. That means it didnt have to 
make sure it was a suitable policy. It still had to give them clear enough information though, 
so that they could make an informed choice about whether they wanted the cover.
Its possible not all the information was given to Mr and Mrs P about the PPI. That is not 
enough for me to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether if theyd been given 
all the information they should have been given, they would have decided against taking it 
out.
To help me decide Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs P have told me about their personal 
circumstances.
Both Mr and Mrs P were eligible for the cover. Mr and Mrs P say they werent told about the 
policy exclusions. But I dont think they would have been affected by any of the limitations 
and exclusions set out in the policy terms and conditions about their employment 
circumstances. I have noted that Mr and Mrs P had some medical conditions and sometimes 
this might make a difference to a decision to take out the policy. But Mr P s condition was a 
condition which once treated there would likely be a complete recovery and so I dont think 
this would have affected his decision to take out the cover. Mrs P also had a pre-existing 
medical condition, but I dont think she would have thought shed need to take a prolonged 
time off work because of it - so I dont think this would have made a difference to her 
decision to take out the policy either.
Mr and Mrs P have told me they had benefits from work which would have paid them around 
six months sick pay but less than 12 months. They have also said they had some savings or 
insurance worth six months or more but less than 12 months. This policy would have 
covered them for 24 months if they made a successful claim for accident or sickness and for 
up to 12 months if they lost their jobs. So, it paid out for longer and in addition to any benefits 
they got from work and it would have covered their mortgage repayments. The 
consequences of being unable to repay their mortgage repayments were serious and might 
have meant they could lose their home. So, I think the PPI provided useful cover and provided some peace of mind in what might have been a stressful time financially, if Mr and 
Mrs P couldnt work. 
Theres nothing to make me think the policy was unaffordable and it provided a reasonable 
benefit for its cost. 
Policy sold in January 2000
YBS are unable to say who was covered by this policy but it provided cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. The monthly cost was £28.35, and the monthly benefit is again 
unknown.
I have again considered whether Mr and Mrs P were given an option to buy the policy.
The internal records of YBS indicate that the policy was taken out after the mortgage 
completed so although YBS cant be precise about how the PPI was sold, it doesnt look like 
this was a condition of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage.
Mr and Mrs P say it was taken over the telephone when they re-mortgaged. In that case, Mr 
and Mrs P would have been asked various questions and the cover set up and more likely 
given a choice about whether they wanted it. As YBS cant say how it was sold Ive thought 
about other possible ways the PPI could have been sold to Mr and Mrs P to be fair to them. 
Mr and Mrs P could have requested their own cover after taking out the mortgage in which 
case they would have been sent separate paperwork to fill in and send back. In the other 
scenario Mr and Mrs P could have been sent a mailing to complete in which case they would 
have to complete the paperwork and send it back.
Whichever way Mr and Mrs P applied I can see that they applied for the cover after the 
mortgage was taken out so its more likely they decided they wanted the cover and on 
balance its more likely they knew they had a choice about taking it out. Again, I think they 
likely would have selected the benefit they wanted.
Mr and Mrs P were eligible for this policy and again as they were both employed, I dont 
think the limitations or exclusions would have prevented them from making a successful 
claim. I have also considered their medical conditions and for the reasons I explained above 
I dont think they would have changed their minds about buying the PPI because of any 
medical conditions they had.
This policy also offered them additional cover to their benefits from work and likely lasted for 
longer.
Mr and Mrs P say they had life cover and were entitled to death in service benefits from work 
for both policies. But the PPI paid out if they were off work through accident or sickness or if 
they lost their jobs, so it was different to any life cover which would have only covered them 
on death.
The mortgage was an important expense. If Mr and Mrs P had lost their jobs or couldnt work 
their income would have reduced substantially and in that event, I think they could have 
found the cover useful at what would have been a very stressful time. I dont think they 
would have changed their mind about buying it.
Ive also thought about what Mr and Mrs P have said about another policy they took out 
being repaid after they complained. But each case is decided on its own merits and the 
considerations which apply in one case dont necessarily apply in another.Overall, I think the PPI in 1995 and 2000 could have been useful to cover their mortgage 
repayments, if Mr and Mrs P found themselves unable to work, or without work. I think its 
more likely they chose to take out the policies and I cant say they were unaffordable. With 
these things in mind, I dont think they would have changed their decision to buy them, even 
if theyd been given more or better information.
Im sorry to disappoint them but I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
  
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman