DRN-3726322
The complaint
Mr F complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Car Insurance (UKI) 
unfairly recorded a fault claim against him.
What happened
Mr F insures his car with UKI. He was involved in a collision involving multiple vehicles. After 
reviewing the evidence available, UKI concluded Mr F was at fault for the damage to a third 
partys car, and recorded a fault claim against Mr F. 
Mr F was unhappy about this and complained to UKI. He said hed been struck from behind 
by a lorry, causing him to lose control and hit the third partys car. He said because of this, 
the driver of the lorry should be held liable for the damage to the third partys car, and his 
claim should be recorded as non-fault. 
Mr F was also unhappy the recording of a fault claim against him had affected his no claims 
discount and insurance premiums. Mr F also complained dashcam footage hadnt been 
shared with him.
When UKI rejected his complaint, Mr F referred it to our service. Our investigator thought 
UKI had acted fairly. Mr F didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision here, its important to note that my role isnt to determine who was at 
fault for the accident. Im looking at whether UKI acted fairly in recording a fault claim against 
Mr F, and that he was liable for the damage to the third partys car.
Several points which are relevant to UKIs decision regarding liability for this incident arent 
disputed. For ease of reference, Ill list these:
Mr F was travelling in the middle lane of a motorway.
A lorry was behind Mr Fs car, also in the middle lane.
The lorry made contact with a car which was in the inside lane.
Shortly afterwards, Mr Fs car swerved into the outside lane, and made contact with 
the third partys car.
Mr Fs car returned to the middle lane after that collision and was then hit in the rear 
by the lorry.
The lorrys insurers have accepted liability for the damage to the rear of Mr Fs car, caused 
when it was struck after it returned to the middle lane after making contact with the third 
party car. Its also accepted liability for the damage to the car the lorry struck on the inside 
lane. Those matters arent the subject of this complaint.
The lorrys insurers declined liability for the damage to Mr Fs car caused when it collided 
with the third party car, or for the damage to the third partys car. UKI accepted liability for 
the third partys claim, and recorded a fault claim against Mr F.
Mr F says he was struck from behind by the lorry twice. The second time was when he 
returned to the middle lane after colliding with the third partys car. He says the first contact 
was what caused him to lose control and veer into the outside lane, where he made contact 
with the third party.
UKI was provided with dashcam footage from the lorry as part of its investigations. This has 
been shared with us. UKI concluded that the footage didnt show the lorry making any 
contact with Mr Fs car before he entered the outside lane and collided with the third party. It 
concluded that, effectively, two separate accidents occurred in a short period of time  the 
first being the lorry colliding with the car in the inside lane, and the second being the collision 
between Mr Fs car and the third partys car, with the lorry then colliding with Mr Fs car.
UKI relies on a condition of Mr Fs policy which says  We are entitled  to take over and carry  
out the negotiation,  defence  or settlement  of any claim  in your name,  or in the name  of 
any other  person  covered by this policy, in saying thats its entitled to decide whether to 
accept liability for the third partys claim. These conditions arent unusual but the decision of 
an insurer around liability, and how the claim is recorded, needs to be reasonable, having 
regard to all the evidence available.
Ive reviewed the dashcam footage. Im satisfied from this that it doesnt show any impact 
between the lorry and Mr Fs car before his car collides with the third partys car. I say this 
because at all times theres roadway visible between the rear of Mr Fs car and the front of 
the lorry where the camera is fitted from the start of the footage to the point that the lorry 
strikes Mr Fs car after it returns to the middle lane after colliding with the third partys car. 
Significantly, the roadway is visible at the time Mr Fs car veers from the middle lane, into the 
outside lane. When Mr Fs car is struck by the lorry, after returning to the middle lane, no 
roadway is visible between the camera and Mr Fs car. The footage indicates to me that 
there was always a gap between Mr Fs car and the lorry before he collided with the third 
party car. As such, the footage doesnt support a suggestion that the lorry collided with Mr 
Fs car, causing him to lose control and swerve into the outside lane. That was the 
conclusion that UKI made from viewing the footage, and I think that was reasonable.
Mr F has alleged the footage has in some way been altered, but has provided no explanation 
or evidence in support of this. The footage has a timer on it and theres no evidence of it 
skipping, or any distortions of the image. Im satisfied from whats available to me that UKI 
could reasonably conclude the footage is an accurate depiction of what occurred.
Mr F also says the footage shows, in the seconds leading up to his car veering from the 
middle lane to the outside, that the lorry was getting closer to his car. Its therefore 
suggested a reasonable conclusion to draw would be that the lorry did make contact with his 
car, causing him to lose control. 
I acknowledge that the footage does show the lorry getting closer to Mr Fs car. That isnt 
evidence of it making contact with his car. As Ive said above, the roadway is visible between 
the lorry and Mr Fs car. In any case, the footage also shows the gap between Mr Fs car 
and the lorry appears to be increasing (presumably because of the lorrys collision with the 
car on the inside lane) immediately before Mr Fs car veered into the outside lane and 
collided with the third partys car.
Finally, Mr F has provided photos showing the damage done to his car. Ive looked at the photos and compared them to whats seen in the footage. Of relevance is a photo of the rear 
of the car, which shows damage to the right rear corner. The footage suggests it was this 
part of the car the lorry struck when it collided with Mr Fs car after it came back into the 
middle lane after colliding with the third party car. I cant conclude that the photos are 
evidence of the lorry having collided with Mr Fs car, causing it to veer into the outside lane. 
Having viewed this footage, Im satisfied that UKIs only reasonable conclusion was that 
there had been no contact between the lorry and Mr Fs car before the collision with the third 
partys car. I dont think it could reasonably say that the lorry had caused Mr F to veer into 
the outside lane, and collide with the third party. There was no other evidence available, or 
which would likely change the conclusion that no other party was responsible for Mr F 
apparently losing control, entering the outside lane and colliding with the third partys car.
I conclude that UKI fairly decided that Mr F was at fault for the collision between his car and 
the third party car. Im satisfied it was a reasonable conclusion to make on reviewing the 
dashcam footage.
As UKI had fairly concluded that the claim should be recorded as a fault claim against Mr F, 
then it follows that the formal recording of this, along with its consequent loss of no claims 
discount and effects on Mr Fs premiums, was also fair. Mr F doesnt appear to have 
complained about the amount the premium increased by, rather the fact that the claim has 
impacted the premium and resulted in the loss of a no claims discount.
Im aware Mr F has now had sight of the dashcam footage referred to above. He made 
submissions to our service based on the footage, and his opinion of what this shows. UKI 
had previously declined to provide this to him, and Mr F complained about this.
I agree that UKI wasnt entitled to release the footage at Mr Fs request. In line with data 
protection regulations, the owner and data controller of that footage was the lorry owner. UKI 
had asked whether the footage could be shared with Mr F, but at that time hadnt been given 
permission. As it had received the footage from a third party, UKI had a duty not to 
inappropriately disclose it. UKI correctly directed Mr F to the lorrys owners as the relevant 
party to ask for its release. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman