DRN-3670149
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement provided by Oodle 
Financial Services Limited. She says the car has a mileage discrepancy.
What happened
Miss M acquired a used car in February 2019 using a hire purchase agreement with Oodle.
In March 2022, Miss M says she attempted to sell the car, but the potential buyer made her 
aware of a mileage discrepancy on the MOT history and wouldnt purchase it. Miss M was 
unhappy with this and complained to Oodle.
In May 2022 Oodle issued its final response. It said, in summary, that the issue on the MOT 
certificate was a typo. So, it said it wasnt upholding the complaint.
Miss M was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service. She said she 
thought this issue meant the credit agreement was not valid.
Our investigator issued an opinion. He explained, in summary, that he didnt think the 
mileage of the car had been tampered with. So, he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Miss M remained unhappy. She said the car was worth a lot less than it wouldve been 
without the mileage discrepancy. She said the car wasnt sold as advertised. She said Oodle 
shouldve checked the cars mileage. And she sent a letter from a car dealer explaining they 
wouldnt buy the car.
Our investigator explained this didnt change his opinion. So, the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Miss M complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I 
can consider Miss Ms complaint about Oodle.
Miss M has said the car wasnt sold as advertised and believed Oodle had a responsibility to 
run an HPI check on the car. I disagree that Oodle had to run an HPI check. But it did have 
some responsibilities here in relation to the mileage.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, guidance and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This explains that 
under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Oodle here - had a responsibility to make 
sure that goods match the description.
So, Oodle needed to make sure that the car was sold with the correct mileage it was 
advertised at and that was showing on the odometer.
Looking at the MOT history of the car, I can see the mileage is recorded as 184,636 miles in 
December 2018. On the next test from February 2019, it is recorded as 18,500. Our 
investigator has confirmed with the manufacturer that the mileage in April 2017 was around 
10,060.
Ive considered that there is no mechanical evidence of the car having completed a higher 
mileage than the odometer shows. Im satisfied, considering this, that its likely the mileage 
on the MOT certificate from December 2018 is recorded incorrectly. I say this as I dont think 
its likely the car completed nearly 175,000 miles in just over 18 months without showing 
significant signs of wear and tear.
So, Im satisfied from this that the car was sold with the correct mileage. It follows that Im 
satisfied it wasnt misdescribed to Miss M nor misrepresented to her. Im also satisfied this 
issue doesnt invalidate the credit agreement.
Ive considered that Miss M says the car is worth a significant amount less because of this 
issue. But Ive seen no evidence of this. So, on balance, I havent seen enough to persuade 
me this is the case.
I appreciate Miss M has given a letter from one dealer saying it wouldnt buy the car. But, I 
havent seen other evidence the car couldnt be sold. Nor have I seen evidence it couldnt be 
returned to Oodle.
Considering all of this, I havent seen enough to make me think Miss M is at a financial loss 
here nor that she is now stuck with the car.
Ive carefully considered everything else Miss M has said about this complaint. But, having 
done so, I dont think it should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman