DRN-3360655
The complaint
Miss D complains about the way in which Charter Court Financial Services Limited
administered her account when she took out a short term loan. She wants Charter Court to
pay her £250 compensation for each phone call made to her and £450 for the way in which it
handled the account closure.
What happened
Miss D took out a short term loan with Charter Court in April 2020 for a period of 12 months.
She says that she felt harassed and anxious because Charter Court contacted her every
month for updates on the sale of the property that she would use to redeem the loan.
Miss Ds solicitors asked Charter Court for a redemption statement in January 2021. And the
redemption statement was produced. But when the mortgage was redeemed in February
2021 Charter Court wrote to Miss D to say that there was a shortfall of around £150 on the
monies received. Miss D subsequently paid this amount to Charter Court once it had
confirmed the reason for the shortfall.
Miss D was later informed that there was an overpayment of around £115 on the account.
She gave her bank account details to Charter Court so it could process the refund. But she
was then told the next day that there had been an internal error and no refund was due to
her.
Miss D complained to Charter Court. And it responded and said, in summary:
Its practice was to keep in touch with customers throughout the bridging term to 
monitor progress and ensure that there were no issues in redeeming the loan.  The 
calls made were handled politely and professionally. And it didnt agree that the 
contact made was excessive;
A redemption statement had been produced and issued on 21 January 2021 for 
redemption on 25 January 2021 as requested by Miss Ds solicitors;
The redemption funds received didnt account for the additional seven days interest 
that had accrued between 25 January 2021 and 1 February 2021, resulting in a 
shortfall of around £150;
Miss D had said that she felt the letter Charter Court had sent her regarding the 
shortfall amount was unacceptable. But it didnt agree. It felt that the content of the 
letter was sufficient to clarify the position of the account and it didnt believe that the 
letter was at all demanding;
It had contacted Miss D on 9 March 2021 to inform her that a refund was due of 
around £115, and the agent advised that it would require her bank details in order to 
send the refund electronically. It then contacted her again on 10 March 2021 to 
inform her that this was an internal error and the refund was not due. It apologised for 
this error, and it paid £25 to her bank account in recognition of the incorrect 
information given.
Miss D wasnt happy with Charter Courts response and brought her complaint to this
service.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt feel that Charter Court had acted incorrectly when it contacted Miss D
for updates on the sale of the property, or in relation to the redemption statement. But she
felt that Charter Court should increase the compensation payable for its error when it told
Miss D that there was a refund due to her by £75, to bring the total compensation payable to
£100.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 6 January 2022. I said, in summary:
Id looked at the contact notes that Charter Court had supplied to this service. And I 
saw from these notes that Charter Court had spoken to Miss D on three occasions 
between her taking out the loan and the loan being redeemed. Charter Court had 
explained that it was its practice to keep in touch with customers during the term of 
the loan to monitor progress and ensure that the loan would be redeemed within the 
term. And, although I noted that Miss D felt that the calls were excessive, my 
provisional view was that I was persuaded that Charter Court had a legitimate 
interest in finding out whether the loan would be repaid as agreed. So I was 
provisionally not persuaded that Charter Court did anything wrong in contacting her;
I appreciated that Miss D was also unhappy when she received a letter from Charter 
Court to tell her that there was a shortfall on the redemption amount it had received. 
But, having looked at the correspondence supplied to me, I saw that Miss Ds 
solicitors requested a redemption statement made up to 25 January 2021, and this 
was what Charter Court supplied. In the event, the redemption funds were not 
received until 1 February 2021, which was the reason for the shortfall. I was 
provisionally persuaded that the redemption statement made it clear that the 
amounts shown in the statement would increase for each day that redemption was 
delayed;
Miss D said she was unhappy with the tone of the letter she received from Charter 
Court telling her that there had been an underpayment. But, although Id considered 
what she had to say, my provisional view was that I was satisfied that the letter 
simply set out the position;
Charter Court had explained that it made an error when it subsequently contacted 
Miss D to say that there was an overpayment on her account, and asked her for her 
bank details so this could be refunded to her. It explained that this was due to human 
error. It apologised, and paid £25 to her account as compensation;
Our investigator felt that the compensation paid was insufficient, and recommended 
that it should be increased by £75 to £100. But, having carefully considered the 
circumstances of this complaint my provisional decision was that I didnt agree. I 
appreciated that Miss D was unhappy that she was asked to give her bank details to 
Charter Court for the refund, only to be told the next day that there was no refund 
payable. But I was provisionally satisfied that Charter Courts agent asked for the 
details as they were under the impression at that time that a refund was due to 
Miss D, and this information was needed in order to process the refund. I also noted 
that the error was discovered the next day, and that Miss D was immediately 
contacted to inform her of the error and to explain that the refund was not due. So in 
the circumstances my provisional view was that the amount of £25 paid was 
sufficient to compensate Miss D for any distress or inconvenience suffered. And my 
provisional decision was that Charter Court did not need to do anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Charter Court has responded to my PD to say that it has nothing further to add. Miss D has 
not responded. So I have not been persuaded to change my provisional decision, and I 
confirm it here.
My final decision
My provisional decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman