DRN-1892265
The complaint
Mr H complains about the sale of his private medical insurance policy by Health-on-line 
Company UK Limited (HOL).
What happened
Mr H took out his policy through HOL. It was taken out on a moratorium basis, which meant 
the insurer wouldnt cover any pre-existing conditions from the previous five years (unless 
the insured had a two year trouble-free period after the policy started).
After making a claim to the insurer for mental health treatment, this was turned down under 
the moratorium as Mr H had experienced anxiety within the previous five years. Mr H 
complained to HOL about the sale of the policy, as hed been told a claim for mental health 
treatment would be covered. 
HOL accepted it had mistakenly told Mr H that a claim for mental health treatment would be 
covered, even though hed experienced his condition within the previous five years. It offered 
to return his premiums if he didnt want to continue with the policy. It also offered him £300 
compensation. Unhappy with this, Mr H brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought HOLs offers were 
reasonable, as she didnt think Mr H would have been able to obtain cover elsewhere for his 
condition. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the sales call, Mr H made HOL aware that hed experienced depression in the last 
five years. He wanted to know what would happen if he made a claim for mental health 
treatment in a years time caused by a different event. HOL should have advised him that 
this would fall under the moratorium unless hed had a two-year trouble-free period after the 
policy had started. Instead, it mistakenly told him that the claim would be covered if it was 
caused by a different event. 
HOL accepts that it gave Mr H the wrong information. I therefore need to think about how it 
should put the matter right. 
I think it would helpful at this point to be clear about Mr Hs pre-existing conditions. He told 
HOLs adviser that hed experienced depression around four years earlier. However, the 
insurer apparently turned down the claim because Mr H had experienced severe anxiety 
around three years before taking out the policy.
When a financial business makes an error, the aim of this service is to place the consumer 
back in the position they would have been (as far as possible), if it hadnt been for the error.
Mr H thinks hes been prejudiced by HOLs error, as he thinks he could have obtained cover 
elsewhere for his condition and therefore his claim would have been payable. Mr H explains 
hes found an insurer that will offer him cover for anxiety after a 12 month trouble-free 
period. 
As the investigators explained, when taking out a new policy (in other words, not continuing 
cover from elsewhere), an applicant will usually be offered two different types of 
underwriting. The first is the moratorium, which generally works in the same way as the 
policy Mr H was sold, and the second is full medical underwriting. For the second option, the 
insurer will ask about an applicants previous medical history, and then generally exclude 
any pre-existing conditions. 
As Mr H was diagnosed with severe anxiety around three years before taking out the policy, 
I think this would have been considered a pre-existing condition under a policy with a 
moratorium. Mr H says he experienced severe anxiety again around six months after taking 
out the policy, which led to his claim. And so even if Mr H had taken out a moratorium policy 
with a 12 month trouble-free period, it seems unlikely that hed have been able to make a 
successful claim under it. 
If Mr H had applied for a policy with full medical underwriting, given that hed experienced 
severe anxiety around three years earlier, I think its highly likely that this would have been 
excluded from cover. 
Consequently, I dont think Mr H has shown that he was prejudiced by HOLs error, because 
I havent seen any evidence to support that he could have had his claim covered if hed 
taken out a policy elsewhere.
I therefore need to think about what Mr H would have done, if he hadnt been given the 
incorrect information by HOL. Having listened to the call, I think Mr H would have likely gone 
ahead with the cover. However, HOL said that if Mr H wanted to cancel his policy, it would 
return his premiums up to the date of the December 2019 renewal. It also offered him £300 
compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused. I think those offers were reasonable. 
Mr H decided not to take up HOLs offer of a refund of premiums as he wanted to continue 
with his cover. However, since then, Mr H has decided to change insurers. He asked HOL to 
refund the premiums hed paid. 
Mr H didnt want to cancel his insurance cover when HOL offered him a refund of premiums. 
And he may have benefited from better terms under his new policy as a result of switching 
policies, instead of taking out a new one. And so its arguable as to whether he should 
receive a refund of premiums at all from HOL, given that he clearly wanted to have private 
medical cover.
I understand HOL has now returned the premiums up to December 2019 to Mr H, and so I 
dont think itd be fair for it to ask him to repay this. However, usually Id require a financial 
business to pay interest on those premiums. But given that Mr H had the benefit of his policy 
remaining in place and a return of premiums, I dont intend to require HOL to pay interest 
too. 
Whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr H, Im satisfied that HOLs offers were 
reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that Health-on-line 
Company UK Limited has paid suitable compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman