DRN-2967745
The complaint
Miss Y is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt refunded her after 
she fell victim to a scam and lost £2,875.
What happened
Miss Y wanted to generate some extra income and so looked into investment opportunities. 
She found the social media account of someone claiming to be involved in forex trading. 
This person said that they took a 20% commission and had a 98.7% success rate in 
generating high returns for their clients.
Miss Y could see the person had a lot of followers and there seemed to be success stories 
posted on the social media profile. Miss Y followed the profile for four weeks before getting 
in touch with the person and deciding to invest. But all of this had been set up by a fraudster 
and Miss Y was not dealing with a genuine party.
Miss Y was told that she could invest upwards of £650 and that such an amount would 
generate a guaranteed return of between £3,600 and £6,700 within a few hours. The 
fraudster said she worked for a company based in London and that her boss was a broker. 
Miss Y decided to go ahead and sent £1,000 to the account details she was provided. 
Within a few hours Miss Y was told her investment had returned £8,215 and she was sent a 
chart which seemed to confirm this. She asked to withdraw the funds, but the fraudster said 
she needed to establish a balance of £10,000 before any withdrawals could be made. And 
so Miss Y sent two further payments: one for £1,500 and another for £375. But after shed 
done so she heard nothing else from the fraudster and all communication channels were 
blocked.
Miss Y called the bank the following day to report what had happened. It contacted the bank 
the money had been sent to, but no funds remained and so there was nothing to return to 
Miss Y.
Halifax went on to consider whether Miss Y was due a refund. The bank considered its 
obligations under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code, of which it is a signatory. The Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax 
says one of the exceptions in the Code applies, in that it believes Miss Y didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing the purpose of her payments was legitimate. And so it said it 
wouldnt refund her under the Code.
Halifax did recognise that it hadnt given Miss Y an answer as quickly as it might have and 
so paid her £75 in compensation.
Miss Y was unhappy with Halifaxs response and so brought her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered it but said that Halifax had acted fairly and reasonably. 
She agreed that Miss Y had acted without a reasonable basis for belief and so Halifax had 
fairly declined her claim under the Code.
She also discussed vulnerability with Miss Y as shed said she was suffering with anxiety 
which had been heightened following a family bereavement. The investigator sympathised 
with Miss Y but didnt find that her vulnerabilities affected her to such an extent that she 
couldnt have protected herself from the scam, particularly as shed been the one to seek out 
the investment and initiate contact.
Miss Y didnt accept the investigators recommendations and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss Y but Im not upholding her complaint. I know shes been the 
victim of a cruel scam and I dont doubt that these events have had a significant impact on 
her financially, mentally, and emotionally. But I dont believe the bank has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in its answering of the complaint
Theres no dispute that Miss Y authorised the payments that are the subject of this 
complaint, even though she did so as a result of being deceived by fraudsters. Broadly 
speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations 
2017, she would normally be liable for them. But that isnt the end of the story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular 
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), which 
Halifax has signed up to.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam, like Miss Y. The circumstances where a firm may choose not 
to reimburse are limited and it is for the firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care, as set out in the Code.
One such circumstance  and the one particularly highlighted by the bank  might be when it 
can be demonstrated that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable 
basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
In considering these points account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the case, 
including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam.
Ive thought carefully about whether this exception to reimbursement applies in Miss Ys 
case. And so I must ask if she made the payments she did whilst having a reasonable basis 
for belief that all was genuine. Im afraid I dont find thats the case.
I find that the offering itself was too good to be true from the outset and to the extent that it 
ought to have raised significant doubt on Miss Ys part. The suggestion that £650 could be 
turned into anywhere between £3,700 and £6,700 doesnt sound feasible, particularly when 
the timeframe given was one of only a few hours. And I think it was also questionable that 
returns were guaranteed, as if the investment carried no element of risk.
These features ought to have led to Miss Y questioning the proposed opportunity and 
checks ought to have been carried out. But it doesnt appear any were.
The scammer said that they worked for a company and that their boss was a broker. But 
Miss Y was never given, and doesnt appear to have asked for, the name of that company. And so it follows that she also carried out no checks to see if it was a genuine company or 
whether the scammer actually worked there.
I can see that the account details given to Miss Y are in the name of an individual. But 
Miss Y believed she was dealing with an investment company. And the name on the account 
didnt match that of the scammer either. So its unclear why this wasnt questioned at all. I 
believe its fair and reasonable to say this was another warning sign.
There are other elements of the proposition that also stand out as suspicious. The fact that 
all investments seemed to be being managed through a social media platform; the way 
messages were written by the scammer, in terms of professionalism as well as spelling and 
grammar; and that other clients account information seems to have been displayed/shared 
online are all concerning features. 
I appreciate the social media platform may have had followers and what looked like success 
stories. But given the nature of the platform used it wasnt really possible for Miss Y to verify 
what she was seeing. And it also doesnt appear any attempts were made to do so. I dont 
find it was reasonable to rely on these features to judge the investment as genuine, at least 
not in the face of the other concerning elements present. 
I appreciate Miss Y didnt have experience in investing. But that doesnt remove the need to 
carry out reasonable checks and to have a reasonable basis for belief before making a 
payment.
Much of my reasoning here really applies to the first payment, though much does carry 
through to the second and third payments too. But its also relevant for me to say that I dont 
find a reasonable basis for belief is established for those later payments. Thats because I 
dont believe the reasons given for further payments being required can be fairly said to add 
up, in terms of topping the account up to £10,000 just so funds could be withdrawn. And that 
feature doesnt seem to have been discussed with the scammer before. 
Furthermore, the screenshot of the supposed returns doesnt actually seem to be linked to 
Miss Y in any way. And it doesnt seem to reflect the returns shes told she has made.
With all of this in mind I dont find that Miss Y had a reasonable basis for believing she was 
making a legitimate investment, and so the bank has fairly declined her claim under the 
CRM Code.
Is there any other reason Halifax ought to refund Miss Y?
Halifax, in its final response to Miss Y, did also refer to a warning that she would have seen 
at the point she was making the payments. And, under the CRM Code, Halifax was required 
to present whats called an Effective Warning where it identified a scam risk. 
The bank has presented little detail around the warning it says Miss Y would have seen. But 
its also not relied on the exception to decline Miss Ys claim. And I also find that the 
payments made by Miss Y were not so remarkable that the bank ought to have believed 
there was a scam risk. The amounts sent each time werent particularly large or unusual, 
though I appreciate they represent a significant loss for Miss Y. And nor were there other 
concerning features  in terms of the payments  to put the bank on notice. And so I dont 
believe the bank needed to do more than it did in terms of providing warnings about making 
payments
Miss Y has described her vulnerabilities to us and has said how she suffers from anxiety, 
which can affect her decision making. Its difficult for me to assess just how much Miss Y is 
affected by her anxiety or what its impact had on her at the time of the scam. But I do have 
to make a finding here. Tthe CRM Code talks about customers being reimbursed, despite 
exceptions applying, if the individual was vulnerable to the extent that they were unable to 
protect themselves from the scam. And from what Ive seen I dont think this applies to 
Miss Y. Shes told the bank previously that she wasnt taking any medication at the time. And its true that Miss Y was seeking out the investment herself, rather than being cold-called or 
pressured into the arrangement. And so I dont find it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Miss Y was unable to protect herself form this type of scam. Thats not to take 
away from the mental health issues Miss Y suffers with and my intention is not to suggest 
that her anxiety causes her difficulties. Im not saying her anxiety had no impact on her at the 
time, but it doesnt seem to be the case that it would be unreasonable to expect her to have 
been able to protect herself here.
The final consideration I have to make is whether the bank did all it could to try and recover 
the money Miss Y lost. Halifax was limited in terms of what it could do here; it could only ask 
the receiving bank to return any money that remained in the recipient account. It needed to 
make enquiries quickly for the best chance of recovery. The evidence Ive seen persuades 
me Halifax did act quickly. And when the receiving bank replied it was to say that no funds 
remained, so there was nothing more Halifax could do.
I can see Miss Y has said that she thinks the bank has admitted an error already and has 
paid her £75 for it. And shes said thats in relation to the time the bank took. Shes right to a 
degree. But the delay was in responding to her complaint, not in seeking to recover the 
money. That delay would have been frustrating, I dont doubt. But it didnt have any impact 
on Miss Y getting her money back. 
Even if there had bene a delay on Halifaxs part, I can see that the money left the recipient 
account before Miss Y reported the scam. And so there was sadly no prospect of the funds 
being recovered once the scam was uncovered. Thats why Im not making any further 
award or telling Halifax it should now refund Miss Y. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman