DRN-2013574
The complaint
C complains that HSBC UK Bank plc demanded more money after C had already paid the 
settlement figure it had requested.
C is represented by Mr G.
What happened
C had a commercial credit card agreement with HSBC. Mr G was a cardholder under the 
agreement.
C says HSBC informed it that HSBC would no longer be able to provide banking services. C 
says Mr G contacted HSBC on 22 July 2019 and asked it to close the card account. C says 
Mr G was told the balance outstanding was £400.15 and he paid this amount in full.
C says that HSBC has subsequently told it that there is a balance of over £500 outstanding 
and it has been pursuing it for repayment of this amount. C says it doesnt understand how 
this is possible. C complained to HSBC.
HSBC investigated Cs complaint. It said it couldnt locate the phone call where Mr G had 
been given the information about the amount outstanding on the account. It apologised that 
hed been given incorrect information. But it said there was still a balance outstanding on the 
account. It sent C statements for the previous three months which showed how this had 
come about.
C remained dissatisfied about the matter. HSBC carried out further investigations. But it 
didnt change its position that there was still a balance outstanding on the credit card. It said 
it had refunded all interest and charges thatd been applied to the account since 22 July 
2019 and it agreed to stop the collection process whilst the complaint was ongoing. It agreed 
that its service couldve been better and it offered to pay £300 by way of compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
C didnt agree and so it referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint. She said shed reviewed Cs statements and she was satisfied that there was a 
balance of just over £500 outstanding. She thought that HSBCs offer to provide £300 by 
way of compensation for poor service was fair. 
C said the compensation offered wasnt enough given the amount of time Mr G had to spend 
trying to resolve the matter. It also said it believed it may have made payments in June 2019 
which werent showing up on HSBCs systems.
Because C didnt agree the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the statements of account for the period since May 2019. 
I can see that the statements are divided into two parts. The first part provides an overall 
summary of the state of Cs account. This takes into account all transactions on the account 
and includes the net balance from the second part of the statement. The second part 
provides a detailed breakdown of transactions on the account which have been made by Mr 
G as the cardholder. There were no other cardholders. As mentioned above, the net balance 
from the second part of the statement is carried over into the first part of the statement. 
Ive looked in particular at the statements which relate to May, June and July 2019. These 
are the statements dated 1 June 2019, 1 July 2019 and 1 August 2019. 
Statement dated 1 June
The first part of the statement shows a small opening balance. This appears to have been 
the interest amount applied on the previous statement. There is a debit of £573.61 and a 
credit for an amount which clears the interest from the previous statement. The credit is 
made by way of a direct debit payment from C. So, the balance outstanding was £573.61. 
The second part of the statement shows the transactions for May which were made using Mr 
Gs card. The total debit amount is £573.61. There is no credit entry on the second part of 
the statement. So, the net amount carried across to the first part of the statement is a debit 
amount of £573.61. 
Statement dated 1 July
The first part of the statement shows that the outstanding balance of £573.61 from the 
previous month is brought forward. The entry for debits is £0 and the entry for credits is 
£13.02. This is made up of a direct debit payment from C for £9 and a credit from Mr G of 
£4.02. So, Cs outstanding balance is £560.59.
The second part of this statement shows the transactions for June which were made using 
Mr Gs card. It is important to note that there is no brought forward balance on this part of the 
statement. So, the entries relate only to transactions in June 2019. The total debit amount is 
£1030.85. There is also a credit entry for £1034.87. So, the net credit was £4.02 - which is 
the amount carried across to the first part of the statement. 
C has suggested that Mr G may have made a payment in June which isnt recorded on 
HSBCs systems. I can see a payment was made in June, as set out above. C hasnt 
provided any evidence of any further payments being made in June. So, on balance, Im 
satisfied that the information on the statement is correct.
Statement dated 1 August
The outstanding balance of £560.59 from the previous month is brought forward. This is 
correct. There is a credit of £9.00 paid by direct debit from C and a debit entry for interest for 
the month. This left a closing balance of £560.84.
The second part of the statement shows the transactions for July which were made using Mr 
Gs card. The total debit amount is £400.15. There is a credit on 22 July for £400.15. This is 
the amount which Mr G has confirmed he paid on that date. The net position on this part of 
the statement is a nil balance. That nil balance didnt alter the overall balance on Cs 
account. This can be seen from the first part of the statement.I understand Cs position is that when Mr G was told, in July 2019, he had to pay £400.15 
that was what was required to settle the account. But the statement shows that the figure 
quoted was only enough to clear the balance on Mr Gs card for transactions in July. It 
wasnt enough to clear Cs account. So, there was still an outstanding balance on Cs 
account. 
I havent been able to listen to the call which Mr G made to HSBC on 22 July. But I accept 
what hes told us. I think HSBC couldve been clearer when Mr G contacted it and shouldve 
explained that the payment of £400.15 was the balance on the card and not the balance 
outstanding on Cs account. However, the statements for Cs account, which Ive looked at, 
do make this clear.
HSBC has confirmed that any interest or charges applied after 22 July 2019 have been 
refunded. HSBC also agreed to put its recovery action on hold whilst this matter was 
investigated. I think that was fair and reasonable. But, having reviewed the statements, Im 
satisfied there is still an outstanding balance which is due and owing. HSBC will be able to 
provide C with an up to date statement showing the current position.
Ive thought about the comments C has made about the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused it. Its also mentioned the amount of time Mr G has had to spend on the 
telephone. HSBC has acknowledged that its service couldve been better, and its offered to 
pay £300 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Having considered everything here, I agree with our investigator that HSBCs offer of £300 
for distress and inconvenience, is fair and reasonable. I dont require it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman