DRN-2381960
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a third party.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1997. The policy was taken out to cover a 
loan secured on Mr Rs home. It provided him with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr R didnt agree saying, in summary, that he had cover at work for six months and that he 
wouldnt have been able to claim whilst he was receiving this. He should have been advised 
to take a policy with a six month deferral period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint for the following reasons:
The PPI was taken out during a meeting when Mr R was applying for a home improvement 
loan. Whilst I cant be sure exactly what was discussed during the meeting, Santander has 
been able to provide some of the completed paperwork. Having considered this I think that, 
overall, Santander made Mr R aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I 
say this because the loan application form included a separate section headed 
Paymentcare with equally clear options to accept or decline the PPI. The Yes box has 
been ticked showing that Mr R wanted to take it. He then completed a separate PPI 
application form. This was returned to the insurer incomplete and he sent in a completed 
application around nine months later  so he must reasonably have known that he didnt 
have to have the PPI because the loan had already been agreed.
The bank advised Mr R to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr R was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr R recalls he would have received three months full pay from his employer followed by 
three months half pay if he couldn't work due to sickness or an accident. The PPI would 
have paid out in addition to the sick pay that he would have received from his employer. 
Mr R initially told us he didnt have any other means of meeting the repayments, 
although he later recalled he may have had some savings. I don't expect him to 
remember now exactly what he had available more than 20 years ago. But, even with his 
sick pay and some savings, I have to take into account that the loan was secured on his 
home. The loan was a long term financial commitment and Mr Rs home was at risk if he 
didnt keep up with the repayments. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months in 
the event of a successful claim for accident or sickness. So I think the PPI couldve been 
a useful benefit, in addition to Mr Rs existing arrangements. It also covered Mr R if hed 
become unemployed and I can see he made a successful unemployment claim in 2001.
Mr R wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr R before he 
agreed to purchase it. I dont think he was told the monthly cost until after the mortgage 
had started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer information about the cost 
would have affected Mr Rs decision to purchase the policy. He had chosen to take out 
the policy, knowing he would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely he would have made a different 
decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Santanders recommendation 
was unsuitable and I dont think Mr R would have made a different decision about taking out 
the policy if better information had been provided to him  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the policy.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
During the time Mr R had the PPI, Santander got a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. 
Because Santander didnt tell Mr R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs to do
Santander has to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should also pay back to Mr R any extra interest he 
paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr R the extra he paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr R 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr R can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman