DRN-3644707
The complaint
Mr N complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly gave him a credit card he couldnt 
afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr N applied for a credit card with Vanquis. His application was accepted and 
he was given a card with a credit limit of £1,000. The limit was increased to £1,750 in 
December 2021. 
Mr N complained to Vanquis in January 2022. He said that the credit shouldnt have been 
given to him because he couldnt afford the repayments. He said that had Vanquis 
completed adequate checks before lending it would have seen this too. Mr N said that he 
had a gambling addiction and had been taking out lots of expensive credit prior to applying 
for this credit card. 
Vanquis didnt think it had acted unfairly in giving Mr N the card or the subsequent limit 
increase. It said that Mr N had declared an income of £55,000 per year and the information it 
had gathered about his committed expenditure and existing credit commitments suggested 
that he had sufficient disposable income to repay the credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Vanquis ought to 
have asked Mr N more questions about his income and expenditure before opening the 
credit card and increasing the credit limit. However, he didnt think that further questions 
would have led to a different lending decision or that it was likely Vanquis would have 
discovered Mr Ns gambling problem. 
Mr N disagreed. He said that the expenditure figures Vanquis had relied on were far lower 
than his actual circumstances. He said that Vanquis ought to have taken his gambling 
expenditure into account too and that at the time he was borrowing from other creditors as 
well as relying on his overdraft to meet his essential expenditure. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending to Mr N, Vanquis were required to complete proportionate checks to ensure 
the credit it was proposing to provide was affordable. There isnt a set list of checks a lender 
needs to complete in each and every case, instead, Vanquis needed to ensure it did enough 
based on the specific circumstances of that lending decision. The things Vanquis needed to 
consider when deciding what was proportionate included (but wasnt limited to): the type and 
amount of credit, the size and frequency of the repayments, the cost of the borrowing and 
Mr Ns circumstances.
Mr N declared that he earned £55,000 per year and Vanquis says he also declared housing 
costs of £290 per month. Vanquis also completed a credit check which it says showed Mr N 
had credit commitments of around £729 per month and it also estimated additional monthly 
living costs at £1,026. It says as Mr Ns monthly income was around £3,300 this 
demonstrated that he had sufficient disposable income to afford the credit limit of £1,000. 
Mr N disputes the figure of £290 for housing costs and says his rent was around £1,000 
more than this. He says he also had two dependents and was using his existing credit cards 
to cover his essential expenditure. 
I do think that the information Vanquis gathered ought to have indicated that further 
affordability checks would be reasonable before lending. I say this because Mr N had 
numerous creditors and not an insignificant amount of credit outstanding to repay. Further, it 
seems that he was more or less at his credit limit on all of his existing credit cards and 
although Vanquis hasnt given me the full extent of its credit check, I think its most likely it 
would have seen this too.  
Having said this, I note that Mr Ns income was significantly above average and there didnt 
seem to be any recent records of payment difficulty on his credit file. The most recent 
missed payment had been recorded around two years earlier. With this as the context, 
I think reasonable and proportionate affordability checks would have included asking Mr N 
more information about his essential expenditure. 
I cant be sure exactly what Mr N would have disclosed if asked at the time. However, Ive 
reviewed copies of his bank statements from the time of the application. In the absence of 
anything else, I think its reasonable for me conclude that the essential expenditure detailed 
in those statements is what Mr N would likely have disclosed. However, Ive not seen 
anything to indicate that Mr Ns committed essential expenditure, combined with his existing 
credit commitments left him with insufficient funds to make repayments towards a credit limit 
of £1,000 in a sustainable way. 
Mr N says that his gambling problem meant that he was struggling financially and was 
borrowing heavily from other creditors. Ive also seen the volume of gambling on his bank 
statements. However, for me to say that Vanquis lent irresponsibly to him on this basis 
I would need to be satisfied that Vanquis knew, or ought reasonably to have known about 
the gambling. Im sorry to disappoint Mr N, but I dont think Vanquis could reasonably have 
known. 
I say this because I dont think it would have been reasonable or proportionate for Vanquis to 
have requested to review Mr Ns bank statements prior to lending to him. From what it knew 
or ought to have known about his financial circumstances at the time of the application 
I dont think would have caused that level of significant concern about his ability to repay 
sustainably. 
Further, I note that Vanquis had a phone call with Mr N prior to accepting his application and 
during this call Mr N didnt disclose his gambling to Vanquis. Even when Vanquis asked 
Mr N what he intended to use the card for, he said it would be for normal purchases. 
However, Mr N went on to use the card almost exclusively for gambling (Ill come onto this in 
more detail when I deal with the limit increase). So, for all these reasons I dont think 
Vanquis acted unfairly in giving Mr N the initial limit of £1,000. 
As Ive set out above, Mr N used the Vanquis card almost exclusively for gambling. When he 
received an annual statement summary in July 2020, it showed that in the first year of having 
the card he had spent £29.99 on purchases and almost £2,000 on cash transactions. 
These cash transactions were almost all gambling transactions as this is how Vanquis treated them. 
Had Vanquis sought to increase Mr Ns credit limit at this point or soon after, I would have 
considered that to have been irresponsible. However, it didnt do so. Vanquis didnt increase 
Mr Ns limit until 17 months later. After Mr N received his annual statement in July 2020, 
which also highlighted how expensive in terms of interest and fees it was to gamble on his 
credit card, he stopped using the card for gambling transactions almost straight away. 
Therefore, in the following 17 months, Mr Ns use of the card was almost exclusively for what 
was considered regular purchases. Ive reviewed Mr Ns credit card statements and it seems 
that its possible Mr N was actually still gambling. However, this is not clear from the type of 
transactions taking place. It seems he was making purchases with payment platforms and 
money exchange providers. Given what Mr N has told us and what we know (with the benefit 
of hindsight) about his circumstances, Im satisfied that the credit card payments did likely 
still go towards gambling. However, I dont think it would have been reasonable for Vanquis 
to have known this. 
This is because the way Mr N was using the card was that he was not making payments 
directly to gambling websites or businesses. So, when Vanquis increased his limit to £1,750 
in December 2021, Mr N didnt appear to have used his account for gambling in almost a 
year and a half. In addition to this, Vanquis credit check showed Mr Ns outstanding external 
debt had decreased by around £5,000 since his initial application for the credit card, hed 
continued to have no adverse information recorded on his credit file, and he had regularly 
made substantial payments towards his Vanquis credit card (sometimes almost £1,000 per 
month). Given all of this, I dont think Vanquis acted unreasonably in increasing Mr Ns credit 
limit at that time. There were no clear signs that doing so was likely to cause him harm or 
difficulty repaying. 
Mr N says that at this time he was regularly in his overdraft. However, this wasnt evident 
from his credit file. Even the copy of the credit file Mr N has provided shows that he was not 
overdrawn at the time, nor had he been recently. While I accept that Mr N did utilise his 
overdraft during this time, from the bank statements hes provided Im satisfied that was 
always a temporary borrowing. I can see he regularly went substantially into credit and it 
seems this is likely the reason his credit file showed no concerns with his overdraft usage. 
As there was nothing on the credit file to indicate a problem, I cant reasonably say Vanquis 
should have known about it. I therefore dont think Vanquis acted unfairly towards Mr N.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman