DRN-3684042
The complaint
Mr R complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op Bank) gave him incorrect information 
over the phone.
What happened
Mr R complained to Co-op Bank after it misinformed him over the phone about the process 
for making a CHAPS payment. Co-op Bank initially told Mr R he could carry out the payment 
by sending the details via fax. When this didnt work, Mr R called the bank back and was told 
the actual process was to do so via email. 
Co-op Bank agreed it made an error. It refunded the CHAPS processing fee (£25) that Mr R 
paid and paid him £50 compensation. Mr R wants more compensation, so he asked this 
service to review his complaint. 
Our investigator concluded that Co-op Bank had put forward a fair resolution to Mr Rs 
complaint. Mr R didnt agree  he says he should be paid at least £200 compensation. 
Because he didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the investigators opinion that Co-op Bank has delivered a fair 
resolution to this complaint and Ill explain why.
Co-op Bank already accepts that it misinformed Mr R during his initial telephone call with the 
bank. Mr R had called to establish whether using fax to process the CHAPS payment was 
still the procedure. But instead of advising him to use email, Mr R was misinformed that he 
could still use fax. Its reassuring to see that Co-op Bank provided Mr R with the correct 
information when he called back a short while later.
To put things right, Co-op Bank refunded the CHAPS fee Mr R paid and paid him £50 
compensation for the inconvenience the bank caused him. I think this is a fair way to put 
things right for Mr R. 
I say this because when looking at the banks notes, I can see that the time between Mr Rs 
initial call - where he was misinformed - and when he called back to be given the correct 
information, was around thirty minutes. I recognise that the banks error wouldve caused 
Mr R frustration, especially given what he says about the value and urgency of the payment. 
Mr R also says he had to spend time on the phone on hold, waiting to be put through to a 
representative of the bank. Im satisfied though that Co-op Banks resolution fairly puts 
things right for Mr R and is within the region of what I wouldve asked it to do, had it not 
offered any compensation. Mr Rs CHAPS payment still seems to have completed 
successfully with no delays, so Im satisfied the impact of the banks error here isnt 
significant.
Mr R wants to be compensated in line with his hourly billable rate. But this services 
approach to compensation relies on the impact of the banks error rather than a specific 
hourly rate. So this isnt something I can consider in these circumstances.
To conclude, Mr R has been inconvenienced by Co-op Banks failure to provide accurate 
information to him the first time he called the bank. Fortunately, the second call a short while 
later allowed the bank to rectify its mistake and prevent a delay with the CHAPS payment. In 
my opinion, Co-op Banks resolution fairly puts things right for Mr R, so I wont be asking it to 
pay more compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc has fairly resolved this complaint. So it 
need not do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman