DRN-3946936
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) wont reimburse her money that 
she lost because of a scam.
What happened
Mrs R was the victim of an advance payment scam, whereby she was persuaded to send 
three cheques from her YBS account totalling £16,000 to the scammer under the 
expectation that she was purchasing a service that she subsequently didnt receive. 
Mrs R reported the scam to YBS when she realised what had happened. YBS then tried to 
recover the money for Mrs R but were unable to do so. Mrs R wasnt happy as she felt YBS 
should have done more to prevent her from being scammed. So, she raised a complaint.
YBS responded to Mrs R and explained that they didnt feel the three cheque payments had 
been unusual or suspicious such that YBS should reasonably have intervened and 
contacted Mrs R before allowing the cheque payments to complete. Mrs R wasnt satisfied 
with YBSs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that YBS had acted 
unfairly by processing the cheque payments as they had. Mrs R remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs R was the victim of a scam here and I sympathise with her and 
with the worry and distress shes experienced because of what happened. 
However, it must be acknowledged that YBS werent an active party in the scam. So, while I 
appreciate that Mrs R feels that YBS should have done more to prevent her from being 
scammed, Id only consider instructing YBS to reimburse to Mrs R all or some of the money 
she lost to the scammer if I felt that YBS should have recognised that Mrs R was or may 
have been in the process of being scammed such that they could and reasonably should 
have taken action that I feel would have been likely to uncover the attempted scam and 
prevent it from happening before allowing the cheque payments to complete. 
A cheque is a written order from a customer (the drawer), instructing their bank to pay a 
specified sum of money to a named beneficiary (the payee). Cheques arent legal tender but 
are legal documents and their use is governed by the Bills of Exchange Act 1882 and the 
Cheques Acts of 1957 and 1992. They arent considered a payment service under the 
previous or present Payment Services Regulations (PSR), so the provisions of those 
regulations dont apply to this type of payment instrument.
A banks principal duty is to obey its customers payment mandate under the terms of the 
account (and of course the customers ancillary contract with the third-party payee, e.g., a 
retailer, creditor, supplier, etc.). This position has long been recognised in common law. So, 
if a bank fails to comply with a validly executed payment order, it could be held liable for 
damages  as could the drawer  where the payment method used is a cheque.
 
What that means is the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer instructs it to make without undue delay. So, presented with a 
cheque drawn in accordance with the terms of the account, a bank must honour the payment 
unless there are legal, regulatory, or contractual grounds which may, in exceptional 
circumstances, allow refusal of a payment instruction. 
Here, it is accepted that the payment mandate was validly executed (authorised) as Mrs R 
had written, signed and issued the cheque to the named payee  the scammer. At that time, 
Mrs R intended to pay the scammer, and so there was no mistake made in the execution of 
the payment. This means, under the terms and conditions of the account, Mrs R is presumed 
liable for any loss in the first instance. 
But there are other factors that need to be considered here. Specifically, taking into account 
the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider good 
industry practice at the time, I feel that YBS ought to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks; having systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other 
indicators that its customer was at risk of fraud; and, in some situations, making additional 
checks before processing payments or declining them altogether to protect its customer from 
possible financial harm from fraud. And Ive seen nothing to persuade me that a bank should 
be less vigilant, or fail to carry out due diligence, just because the payment is by cheque. 
As such, an important question that I must ask here is whether I feel there was anything in 
the nature of the cheque payments under consideration which should have reasonably given 
YBS any cause to suspect that Mrs R may have been in the process of being scammed, 
such that they should have intervened and questioned Mrs R about the cheques before 
processing the payments.
In this instance, having considered all the information available to me, I dont feel there was 
anything in the nature of the cheque payments that should have reasonably given YBS any 
cause for concern. 
One reason I say this is because, while the cheque amounts in question - £6,000, £5,000, 
and £5,000  were large, I dont feel that they were unusually large to the degree that they 
should have been seen as being potentially suspicious by YBS. Indeed, Mrs R had made 
other large legitimate cheque payments from her account in the weeks leading up to the 
three cheque payments to the scammer, including a legitimate cheque payment for £4,000 
made only a week before the cheque payments to the scammer commenced.
Additionally, the three cheque payments in dispute didnt happen in quick succession but 
rather took place over the course of six and a half weeks. And the cheques also didnt clear 
the balance of Mrs R account, but each time left a significant balance remaining in the 
account. And in consideration of all these points, I feel it was reasonable for YBS to consider 
the cheques as being unsuspicious and to have processed them as per Mrs Rs instructions.
I also think it is important to highlight that once a cheque has been written, issued, and 
presented for payment, it cant be stopped by the drawer simply because they have regrets 
or second thoughts. A bank can only return a cheque unpaid if it has permissible reasons to 
do so. These include:
 cheque fraud, i.e., fraudulently altered or forged cheques.
insufficient funds in the account being drawn on.
a stop placed on the cheque for being lost or stolen.
differing amounts and words.
missing or specimen signature mismatch.
cheque alteration not correctly validated.
if the bank was sure the cheque was obtained fraudulently or was an attempt to 
misappropriate funds.
So, even if I were to accept that an intervention by YBS would have led to Mrs R taking a 
different course of action (for the avoidance of doubt, that isnt my finding here), I dont think 
this would have resulted in a different outcome. This is because Im not persuaded that Mrs 
R would have been able to provide YBS with a permissible reason to return the cheque 
unpaid in the small window of opportunity it had before the cheque was settled through the 
clearing process and because Mrs R has explained that the scammer coached her on what 
to tell YBS if they contacted her with concerns about the cheques.
Furthermore, any recovery after the cheques had completed would have been on a best 
endeavours basis  and the decision to return any funds (if any remained) would sit with the 
beneficiary bank  the scammer's bank  and not with YBS.
All of which means that I dont feel that YBS did act unfairly or unreasonably by processing 
these cheques as they did here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing YBS to reimburse any money to Mrs R as she would like.
To reiterate, this isnt to say that Mrs R wasnt scammed. But it is to say that I dont feel that 
YBS should have had any reasonable suspicion that Mrs R was being scammed or acted 
differently to how they did here  given the information they had available to them and their 
obligations in regard to cheque payments as described above. 
Finally, when YBS were made aware by Mrs R that she had been scammed  which 
unfortunately only took place several weeks after the cheque payments to the scammer had 
been made  Im satisfied that YBS acted to try to recover the money for Mrs R in a timely 
manner. But because the money had already been moved from the account into which it was 
received by the scammer, this wasnt possible. This is unfortunate, but I dont feel it can be 
fairly said that YBS did anything wrong in how they tried to recover the money for Mrs R.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mrs R was wanting, but I hope shell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman