DRN-3299971
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, agreed a payment holiday on 
his mortgage without his consent.
What happened
Mr J had a joint mortgage with another party. He contacted Halifax in November 2020 with 
concerns that the other party could no longer afford the mortgage. And he also said that he 
thought that the other party might apply for a payment holiday and that he didnt want this to 
happen.
Later in November 2020 the other party applied for a payment holiday online. And the 
payment holiday was put into place for December 2020  February 2021 inclusive. This 
meant that the monthly payments were reduced from around £550 per month to around 
£150 per month during that period.
The online form asked the applicant to confirm that all parties had agreed to the payment 
holiday. 
Mr J complained to Halifax in January 2021. And Halifax responded. In summary, it 
confirmed that the other party to the mortgage had completed an online application for the 
payment holiday. And it explained that it would expect the other party to complete the form 
honestly. But it agreed that it could have done more on this occasion. So it sent Mr J a 
cheque for £200 as compensation for the upset caused by it allowing the amendment to the 
mortgage without his consent. 
Mr J wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so he brought his complaint to this service. He 
said in particular that the payment holiday had affected his ability to secure another 
mortgage in his sole name.
Our investigator said, in summary:
although he appreciated that the application process was partly automated he felt 
that some sort of review should have been carried out prior to the payment holiday 
being agreed. This would have shown that there was a flag on the account to indicate 
a dispute;
while the payment holiday had not negatively impacted Mr Js credit file it had limited 
his ability to take out a new mortgage. For this reason, he felt that Halifax should 
increase the compensation to Mr J to a total of £300.
Halifax has accepted our investigators view and has agreed to increase the compensation 
offered to £300. But Mr J doesnt not agree with our investigators view and has asked for his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has explained that it set up its online payment holiday application process as a 
response to the pandemic, when it found it needed to find a way to process a large number 
of requests within a short period of time. It says that the form requires the customer to 
confirm that all parties consented to the application. And it says that it trusts customers to be 
honest and act with integrity when completing the application.
I understand why Halifax put this process in place. But in this case, Mr J had contacted 
Halifax shortly beforehand and had made it clear that he did not agree to a payment holiday. 
So, in the circumstances of this case, I agree with our investigator that Halifax should have 
carried out some sort of review before putting the payment holiday into effect. This review 
would have shown that there was a flag on the account indicating that there was a dispute 
and that Mr J didnt want a payment holiday. 
Halifax has accepted our investigators view that it should increase the compensation to Mr J 
to a total of £300. But Mr J doesnt feel that £300 compensation is sufficient. 
He says in particular that as a result of the payment holiday he was unable to apply for a 
mortgage in his own name. 
Ive considered what Mr J has to say on this issue. He has supplied evidence to show that 
he approached a broker about applying for a mortgage but was told that his application was 
likely to be declined due to the recent payment holiday. But he didnt proceed with an 
application at that time. And I cant be sure that any mortgage application Mr J might have 
made would have been successful other than for the payment holiday, as lenders take 
account of a large number of issues when deciding whether or not to lend. 
Putting things right
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I agree with the investigator 
that a total of £300 compensation is fair and reasonable to compensate Mr J for the trouble 
and upset he has suffered
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to 
pay Mr J a total of £300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022. 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman