DRN-2728772
The complaint
Mr K said Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a mortgage in 
1998. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr K was mainly concerned that he was told he had to take out PPI with his mortgage  but 
not told what it was or what it covered. Mr K said if PPI had been explained and hed 
understood it was optional he wouldve declined it. He felt the cover wasnt something that 
he wouldve needed as he couldve relied on cover available to him through his work  which 
he told us was better. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Ks mortgage application includes a section headed, in bold type Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance which gives brief details about the benefits of PPI. 
It says here: We recommend that you consider insurance against accident, sickness and 
involuntary unemployment. 
I think its fair to say that Mr K wouldve seen that PPI was something Halifax thought was a 
good idea for borrowers.  But it isnt wording that I think wouldve suggested to Mr K that PPI 
wasnt optional.
Mr K has filled in his name as the person to be insured and answered questions to check he 
was eligible for the policy. He filled in details of the amount of monthly benefit he wanted to 
have.
Mr K signed his completed mortgage application confirming that the information on the form 
was correct. 
A couple of months later, Mr K also completed and signed a separate application form to 
have the PPI added on to his mortgage account. 
I dont know how or if PPI was explained to Mr K during any discussions. Whilst I've taken 
into account what hes told us, this isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold Mr Ks 
complaint about the way he was sold PPI. I must look at all the available information and 
think about the wider circumstances when deciding what I think is most likely.  
Looking at the paperwork he signed at the time, I think Halifax made Mr K aware that the 
PPI was optional and that he chose to have it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr K. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it 
doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, as things stand, I think PPI probably 
was suitable in Mr Ks circumstances. Heres why I say this.
Mr K was eligible for the PPI policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions that applied. 
Ive taken into account what Mr K told us about his work benefits. He mentioned having a 
package of benefits rolled into his contract which gave him 12 months full sick pay, 
accident cover and death in service benefit.
It would be very unusual for someone to be guaranteed to receive full sick pay for a whole 
year. If Mr K has more information that shows hes right about this then, of course, Ill take 
this into consideration before I issue my final decision. 
At the moment, looking at his job situation, I think its more likely that Mr K mightve had 
6 months' full sick pay followed by half pay for 6 months  and thats why hes remembered 
having cover for up to 12 months if he was off sick. 
PPI wouldve covered Mr K for accident or sickness and paid out in full for up to 12 months 
per claim. And the policy wouldve paid out, on top of any sick pay. This couldve been a 
useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mr K needed to claim as he 
mightve had extra costs if he was ill or disabled.  
The policy couldve also paid out for up to 12 months at a time if Mr K lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Mr K hasnt provided any more information about the accident cover hes mentioned. Unless 
he has more information he can send me that suggests otherwise, this sounds to me like a 
different sort of policy that wouldve paid out a different kind of benefit compared to PPI 
which covered his mortgage monthly repayments. 
And death in service benefit wasnt something Mr K wouldve been able to rely on for help 
with his monthly mortgage repayments if he was off sick or if he became unemployed. 
So, thinking about all of these things, it looks to me as if PPI did offer Mr K useful benefits in 
his particular situation, over and above the cover he was likely to have had through work. 
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. Ive taken into account that Mr K told us 
about a medical condition he may have had at the time he took out the PPI. 
But, although a pre-existing condition he had at the time mightve been excluded under the 
policy, Mr K also told us that he keeps things in check with medication and hes never had to 
take time off work as a result of his illness. So I think its unlikely when he arranged the PPI that Mr K wouldve had any reason to 
expect hed be off work for long enough to claim under the policy for this condition. So even 
if this policy limitation did affect him and it wasnt clearly explained, I dont think that there is 
any reason why this wouldve put Mr K off taking out the policy.
It doesnt look like any of the other policy limitations or exclusions wouldve affected Mr K. 
There was an indication of the cost of the policy on the PPI application form and it seems 
Mr K found this acceptable. Ive seen nothing to make me think that paying for the PPI led to 
money problems for Mr K  so thats not a reason for me to uphold the complaint.
Taking everything into account, I can see why Mr K mightve wanted the peace of mind and 
security that PPI offered him. His mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for 
a long period of time. Mr Ks home couldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent 
kept up to date. Repeat claims were possible under the policy so it gave Mr K long term 
cover for his mortgage whilst he was paying for his home. Given his circumstances at the 
time I can see why Mr K mightve felt PPI was useful. 
I think it unlikely Mr K wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. 
So I dont find he has lost out as a result of anything that Halifax may have done wrong.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs to give back to Mr K some of the commission 
he paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain types 
of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. 
As Mr Ks mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So 
Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr K paid for the PPI he had with that 
mortgage.
This means that Im planning to tell Halifax theres nothing it needs to do to put things right 
when I issue my final decision.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither party has made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decisionFor these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman