DRN-3494610
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc caused delay in the transfer of his investments to a 
new provider. He says HSBC paid him compensation, but the amount doesnt reflect the 
stress and aggravation he was caused.
What happened
Mr S held an InvestDirect International account with HSBC. HSBC changed the way it 
operated Mr Ss account and as a result he decided he wanted to transfer his investments to 
a new provider. He says the transfer took a lot longer than it should have and that HSBC 
wrongly charged him transfer fees.
HSBC apologised for the delays. It refunded the transfer fees and paid Mr S £750 by way of 
an apology for the difficulties it had caused.
Our investigator thought HSBCs offer was fair and reasonable. Whilst she thought HSBC 
had caused some delays, she could also see that it had taken steps to try to resolve 
problems and push ahead with the transfer. She concluded that £750 fairly reflected the 
considerable distress and inconvenience Mr S had been caused.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he thought the compensation paid would be fair if hed initiated 
the transfer, but the transfer was as a result of an overreaction by HSBC to a minor change 
in US regulations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss complaint about the changes to the way HSBC operated his account is the subject of 
a separate complaint. This complaint is only about the delays in the transfer to his new 
provider. 
Our investigator has already set out a summary of what happened and why the transfer took 
so long. I agree that, whilst this transfer was complex, and whilst HSBC wasnt solely 
responsible for the delay, HSBC was partly responsible. It explained this was due to errors 
and a high volume of work.
Im satisfied that Mr S didnt make a financial loss as a result of the delay. 
So it only remains for me to decide how much Mr S should be compensated for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by HSBCs delay. Ive considered this very carefully.
Mr S has explained that his particular circumstances at the time were already stressful, so 
this was an added worry he didnt need. And because HSBC didnt always communicate 
with him, or his HSBC relationship manager, Mr S spent time trying to find out what was 
happening and acting as a go-between between it and his new provider. I appreciate this 
would have been frustrating and time-consuming for him, at an already stressful time.
He also told us he had a constant worry that, if there was a market crash, he wouldnt be 
able to take any action to preserve the value of his shares. The investments are his life 
savings, and only pension, so its obviously important to him that their value doesnt fall. 
Whilst HSBC told us Mr S would still have been able to phone its dealing desk to sell his 
shares during the transfer process, I can understand that Mr S wanted the reassurance of 
knowing that his shares were safely with his new provider where he could easily access 
them should he have needed or wanted to.
The compensation award is to fairly compensate Mr S for the distress and inconvenience 
hes been caused. Its not designed to punish HSBC. Im satisfied that the impact of the long 
delay caused Mr S considerable worry and inconvenience. But Im also satisfied that HSBCs 
payment of £750 fairly reflects that worry and inconvenience. 
In arriving at this decision, Ive taken into account what Mr S says about the transfer being 
necessary due to HSBC changing the way it operated his account. But that doesnt make a 
difference to my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman