DRN-3871673
The complaint
Mr G complains that Equifax Limited hasnt done enough to establish why he couldnt pass 
his banks additional security checks.
Mr G wants Equifax to tell him the questions and answers so that it can correct any incorrect 
information that Equifax holds. And Mr G wants Equifax to compensate him for the time and 
effort it has taken him to resolve his complaint. 
What happened
Mr G is a customer of a bank I will refer to as B. After Mr G failed Bs additional security 
questions in April and July 2022, he complained to Equifax as B said the questions were 
based on data taken from Mr Gs Equifax credit file.
Equifax told this service that it didnt have any record of a credit search by B in April or July 
2022. As it appeared that B carried out some internal security checks, Equifax suggested 
that Mr G go back to B to find out more about these checks.  
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Gs complaint be upheld. In his investigation 
outcome, the investigator said that B was responsible for the security checks that Mr G was 
unhappy about. The investigator noted that Mr G thought everything was correct on his 
Equifax credit report. So, there wasnt anything for Equifax to put right. The investigator said 
that Mr Gs complaint about B had been set up separately and that someone would be in 
touch shortly.
Mr G wasnt happy with the investigation outcome. He explained that the additional 
questions which B asked him about werent based on information contained in his credit file. 
Instead, the questions related to places, people, and numbers that Mr G had no connection 
with. After Mr G complained to B, it said it had had other similar problems with Equifax.
Mr G pointed out that B says it cant investigate the data issue for data protection reasons. 
Mr G said that investigators assumption that Equifax held the correct information about him 
was flawed as it didnt account for why B had been provided with information that didnt 
relate to him.
 After the investigator responded, Mr G said it was clear Equifax was expecting answers to 
match information it held somewhere other than his credit report.
The investigator went back to Mr G highlighting the section in his Equifax credit report which 
didnt show any checks recorded on the relevant dates.  The investigator said it was hard for 
Equifax to prove a negative  i.e., that it didnt hold the information Mr G claimed it held. And 
that it would be highly unusual for Equifax to hold information about Mr G that didnt appear 
on his credit report. 
Mr G told the investigator that to resolve matters, Equifax should provide the text of the 
questions and expected answers generated in April and July 2022.
After Mr G provided the investigator with some research that hed carried out into similar 
problems with B and Equifax, the investigator told Mr G that it appeared Bs checks were 
carried out by a business I will refer to as L. And that Ls website said it provides a wide 
range of information to clients to allow them to carry out security checks. Some of this 
information comes from sources other than credit reference agencies. The investigator said 
that as Equifax wasnt showing any searches by L on the dates in question, he still didnt 
think Equifax had done anything wrong.
B then confirmed to this service that although it tells customers it uses Equifax as the credit 
reference agency in its searches, it accepts that as L produces the questions needed to 
identify customers making high risk transactions, these questions may come from sources 
other than Equifax. 
Mr G doesnt accept that Equifax cant do something to make sure the incorrect questions 
and answer information is corrected, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less details than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues  the rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so
I dont want to disappoint Mr G but having looked at everything (including some of the 
complaint file concerning B) I agree with the investigator that Equifax hasnt done anything 
wrong. I should also make it clear that my decision relates solely to Equifax and not the 
actions of B or L.
There is nothing on Mr Gs Equifax credit file to indicate that either B or L carried out 
searches or identity checks using Equifax in either April or July 2022. This makes it very 
difficult to find that Equifax played any part in Mr Gs failure to pass security.
Mr G confirms that his Equifax credit report doesnt contain any incorrect information about 
him. So, theres nothing for me to direct Equifax to remove or change. 
Just because previous searches by B and L appear on Mr Gs Equifax credit report doesnt 
mean that Equifax has a degree of control over L as Mr G suggests or that L is a subsidiary 
of Equifax  which as far as Im aware, it isnt.  As the investigator told Mr G  L holds 
individual data which comes from a wide range of sources. So, I dont consider it reasonable 
to require Equifax to ask L  which is a separate business to Equifax  for information about 
the additional security questions B used. 
Im sorry that Mr G has found the whole thing frustrating and time consuming, but for all the 
reasons Ive outlined above, I dont find that Equifax is at fault, so I dont require it to take 
further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023. 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman