DRN-3565175
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Utmost Life and Pensions Limited (Utmost) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr W met with Utmost in the early part of 1996 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Mr W says this came about following a seminar he attended. 
Utmost said it completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives  but it hasnt provided this. I also cant see that Utmost carried out an 
assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk. Ill come back to this later on. 
On 20 March 1996 Utmost advised Mr W to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension. The application form records that the proceeds (were to be invested in a with-profits 
fund. The letter of 20 March 1996, presumed to be the suitability letter, did not give any 
reasons for the transfer  it simply said that after discussion of the analysis of Mr Ws DB 
pension, it had decided to transfer his scheme benefits to a personal pension.
Mr W accepted the advice and the transfer duly took place. An amount of around £10,100 
was transferred to Mr Ws new personal pension.
Using the services of a representative, Mr W complained to Utmost in 2021 about the 
suitability of the transfer advice. 
Utmost didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. In summary it said that Mr W made his decision to 
transfer following a detailed analysis of the benefits of his DB scheme with that of a personal 
pension. It said the illustrations and transfer analysis report produced at the time made it 
clear that there were no guarantees and that the eventual outcome would depend on 
investment performance. It said Mr W was provided with the necessary information at the 
time and while Mr W may now regret his decision to transfer, this does not mean the original 
advice was unsound.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr W referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required Utmost to pay compensation. In summary they firstly 
highlighted that there was nothing to suggest Mr Ws complaint had been brought out of 
time. And that in considering the merits of the complaint, they thought the advice was 
unsuitable. 
They didnt think it was financially viable - the growth rate required to match Mr Ws scheme 
benefits, taking account of his attitude to risk (deemed by the investigator to likely be 
cautious) and his capacity for loss, indicated he was unlikely to improve on the benefits 
available to him under the DB scheme - and there were no other compelling reasons to 
proceed with a transfer. They said that had Mr W been suitably advised, they thought Mr W 
wouldve remained in his DB scheme. 
Despite Utmost repeatedly indicating that it would provide a response to the investigators 
conclusion, weve not received a response. 
On the assumption therefore that Utmost disagrees with the investigators opinion, the 
complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And 
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice  but it provides useful context for my assessment of Utmost's actions here.
The advice was provided by Utmost in 1996 (although it was known by another name then). 
At this time it was regulated by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA). As Utmost was a 
previous member of the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO), 
the PIA (LAUTRO) adopted rules applied at the time of the advice. 
The adopted LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This 
required advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. 
Paragraph 6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included 
that they should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the Mr Ws 
best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. Mr W was 36 was at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 66  his schemes normal 
retirement age was 65. The critical yield required to match Mr Ws benefits at age 65 was 
9.5% (I assume this was based on Mr W taking a full pension.) This compares with the 
discount rate of 10% per year for 28 years to retirement in this case. For further comparison, 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 12%, the middle projection rate 9%, and 
the lower projection rate 6%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr W's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be little point in Mr W 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
Im mindful that the critical yield of 9.5% was slightly lower than the discount rate of 10%. But 
the critical yield was still higher than the regulators middle projection rate. And 9.5% was the 
growth required to effectively stand still and provide the same level of benefits as the DB 
scheme. Importantly I also think this needs to be considered in the context of Mr Ws attitude 
to risk. Nothing in the advice paperwork from the time indicates that Mr Ws attitude to risk 
was assessed by Utmost  if it was, the record of it either hasnt been provided or its no 
longer available. But I think there is evidence available to indicate what Mr Ws likely attitude 
to investment risk was at the time. Looking at the personal pension plan application, I can 
see that the chosen investment fund was a with-profits fund  100% of Mr Ws transfer value 
was invested this way. In my view this would reasonably be considered a low or cautious 
investment at the time of the advice. Because I think Utmost wouldve chosen an investment 
fund to match Mr Ws attitude to risk, I think its reasonable to assume that Mr W likely had a 
low or cautious attitude to investment risk. 
But I dont think that the transfer was compatible with Mr Ws cautious attitude to risk. In my 
view, to achieve the necessary sustained growth rates, it required Mr W to take investment 
risk which was above his recorded appetite. It appears that at best he might end up with 
benefits broadly in line with his existing benefits if he invested in line with a medium attitude 
to risk. But in my view there was a real possibility that Mr W would receive lower value 
benefits than his DB scheme at retirement if he invested in line with his cautious attitude to 
risk, which is what Utmosts advice ought to have been based on. 
Overall I think it is clear that Mr W would not be better off and was more likely to be worse off 
financially if he transferred out of his DB scheme. And for this reason alone, I dont think the 
advice to transfer out of the DB scheme was suitable for Mr W. But I accept that financial 
viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice - there might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits.
But there are no other considerations recorded as having been taken into account in the 
advice paperwork  it appears the advice was solely based on Utmosts belief that Mr W 
would be better off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme. Ive already said that 
I dont think this was the case. And in my view there were no other particular reasons to 
justify a transfer and outweigh the likelihood of lower retirement benefits.
Mr W was only 36 at the time of the advice and based on what Ive seen he didnt have 
concrete retirement plans. As Mr W had almost 30 years before he said he wanted to think 
about accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr W to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in 
retirement would be. If Mr W later had reason to transfer out of their DB scheme he could 
have done so closer to retirement.Summary
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free, and increasing income. By transferring, Mr W was at best likely to 
obtain no more than his existing benefits and in my view he was very likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. I also think there were no other particular reasons, which would justify a 
transfer and outweigh this.
So, I think Utmost shouldve advised Mr W to remain in his DB scheme.
I now need to consider whether, if things had happened as they should have Mr W wouldve 
gone ahead anyway, against Utmosts advice. 
Having done so, I dont think Mr W wouldve insisted on transferring out of his DB scheme 
and gone ahead in any event. I say this because theres nothing to suggest Mr W an 
experienced investor, who possessed the requisite skill, knowledge of confidence to go 
against the advice they were given in pension matters. I think Mr W had a cautious attitude 
to risk and at the time his pension accounted for the majority of his future retirement 
provision. I think he relied on the advice he was given. So, if Utmost had provided Mr W with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt suitable for 
him, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Utmost should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Mr W has chosen not to wait for the new rules and guidance to come into effect to settle his 
complaint. I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr W.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Utmost to put Mr W, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for Utmosts unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Utmost must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Utmost may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date Utmost receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Utmost to pay 
Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Utmost to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Utmost Life and 
Pensions Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Utmost Life and Pensions Limited to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Utmost 
Life and Pensions Limited to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Utmost Life and Pensions Limited pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Utmost Life and 
Pensions Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman