DRN-4262231
The complaint
Miss R complains that overdraft facilities provided to her by Santander UK Plc were not 
affordable and caused her to incur fees, charges and interest that stretched her financial 
position, leading to the bank recording her account in default.
What happened
Miss R had a Santander current account. In July 2020 Santander approved a £500 overdraft 
facility on the account. The revised arrangements attracted a £10 monthly fee. The account 
generally operated in a credit position prior to the overdraft facility being approved. Miss R 
used the overdraft during 2020, although it was always repaid when her monthly salary was 
paid in.
However, during the early part of 2021 the account operated in the overdraft facility for a 
significant proportion of each month. The overdraft limit was increased to £550 the following 
March. But after the credit in December 2021, Miss Rs salary stopped being paid into the 
account. And in early 2022, Miss Rs balance exceeded the approved overdraft limit. From 
February that year Miss R started to repay the balance at £5 per month. The overdraft 
balance remained in an excess position until July 2022 when Santander terminated the 
facility and passed the balance to its recoveries team, recording the account as in default on 
Miss Rs credit file.
Miss R is unhappy that the bank approved the lending, which she considers contributed 
towards the overall financial position she found herself in. Shes referenced other borrowing 
she undertook during the material time, including credit cards and loans with Santander and 
other providers. Shes sought reimbursement of charges, fees and interest associated with 
the overdraft, along with the removal of the default information from her credit file. Shes said 
that other creditors agreed arrangements to avoid this happening, and she thinks it unfair 
that Santander took a different approach.
Our investigator didnt consider Santander had dealt with Miss R unfairly, either in its 
decision to approve the overdraft limits or in relation to the default it had recorded. She found 
that Santander had undertaken appropriate and proportionate checks based on the type of 
lending it was providing to Miss R.
Miss R responded to the investigator some time later, after wed considered complaints 
shed brought against Santander in relation to other borrowing shed taken out with the bank. 
Wed upheld these complaints and Miss R questioned why the same outcome hadnt been 
reached in this case. She also queried the investigators conclusion in relation to the default, 
saying that she had a debt management plan in place so the default should not have been 
recorded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that the outcomes on Miss Rs other complaints have prompted her to query 
what might, at first glance, appear to suggest a similar outcome should apply to this 
complaint. But while the general Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) principle of 
undertaking a creditworthiness assessment applies to pre-arranged overdrafts, what might 
represent proportionate checks can depend on different factors from say, a fixed sum loan or 
a credit card.
For example, the type of credit, the credit limit and the amount of any repayments are all 
factors referenced in CONC 5.2A.20, which can be found in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook on the FCAs website. Miss Rs overdraft, by its very nature, was a different 
proposition from her later loan and credit card arrangements. The issue at hand, then, is 
whether Santander undertook reasonable and proportionate checks in relation to the 
overdraft borrowing rather than whether it undertook the same checks as on her other forms 
of borrowing.
Ive considered the steps Santander took in respect of the overdraft facility it approved in 
July 2020. It had, at that point, a fairly lengthy record of how Miss R had handled her current 
account. It also undertook a search of Miss Rs history of how shed handled previous credit. 
Neither of these in my view indicated any obvious cause for concern such that it should have 
prompted Santander to make further investigation. I find the bank didnt act unreasonably in 
making the decision to lend to Miss R.
The increase in March 2021 appears to me to have arisen in rather different circumstances. 
As Ive noted, at that point Miss Rs account had been overdrawn for much of the previous 
three months. So on the face of it, even a small increase of £50 might have been a cause for 
concern.
But looking at the date of the increase, this appears to have been in order to deal with a 
situation where Miss Rs expenditure exceeded the agreed £500 limit. In such 
circumstances, CONC 5.2A.2(2) has the effect that Santander didnt need to undertake a 
creditworthiness assessment. So again, it would be wrong for me to conclude that the bank 
acted incorrectly in approving the increase.
I appreciate Miss R feels it was unfair (and unnecessary) for Santander to record the default. 
And I can understand why its important to her that she maintains a good credit rating. But I 
dont think Santanders action in recording the default is inconsistent with the standards set 
out in CONC or other relevant guidance such as the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies.
The ICO Principles say that where a debt management plan is agreed with a lender and 
payments under it are maintained, a default wouldnt normally be registered. However, while 
Miss R entered into a debt management plan administered by a third party debt 
organisation, it doesnt automatically follow that such an arrangement was agreed with 
Santander. The fact the bank accepted the token payments Miss R was able to make 
doesnt mean it agreed to them.
Further, it appears from the account statements that Miss R had stopped her regular monthly 
payments to the account. The credit file shes submitted indicates around the same time 
Miss R set up a current account with a different provider. The fact that regular credits had 
stopped going into the account, combined with what Miss R told Santander in 2022 about 
her financial difficulty, are no doubt connected to the banks decision to terminate the 
overdraft facility. As an overdraft is repayable on demand and Miss R had already made 
clear to the bank she wasnt in a position to repay the balance in full, she would be in default 
of that obligation. Taking all of this into account, I can see why there might be a difference between the way 
Santander reported Miss Rs current account and the way it and other creditors reported the 
position on other forms of credit she owed. So while I understand her concerns, I dont find 
that the information Santander has recorded on Miss Rs credit file means it has treated her 
unfairly, or that the banks actions provide a basis on which I might require removal of the 
entry.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint. I 
nevertheless hope that my explanation has been helpful to her in understanding why Ive 
reached a different conclusion from colleagues who have dealt with her other complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman