DRN-3685824
Complaint
Mr F is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. 
Background
In April 2021, Mr F made two applications for a HSBC bank account. HSBC was concerned 
about inconsistencies in the information Mr F provided. In particular, it was concerned that 
Mr F hadnt disclosed all of his previous addresses. So it subsequently closed Mr Fs 
account after his second application had been approved and also recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
Mr F complained after learning that HSBC had recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. HSBC looked at Mr Fs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr F remained dissatisfied, he 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Fs concerns. He didnt think that HSBC had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed is intended to record that there was application fraud  
relating to Mr F using his real name but providing other false information in an application for 
a financial product. In order to file such a marker, it isnt required to prove beyond 
reasonable doubt that Mr F is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but it must show that there 
are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain their version of events in order to understand their 
level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Fs complaint, I need to decide whether I think HSBC had enough 
evidence to show that Mr F did provide materially false information. Secondly, HSBC also 
needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr F was deliberately dishonest when doing so 
and that any discrepancies werent simply down to a mistake or misunderstanding. Its also 
important to note HSBC had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test for it to 
have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, I do firstly want to start by saying that its disappointing to see 
that HSBC failed to obtain Mr Fs version of events before recording the marker. I accept it 
believed the information it obtained from credit reference agencies indicated that  Mr F had 
provided false information. But, on its own, this is only really enough to trigger suspicion or 
concern. And I have to question how HSBC could possibly have assessed Mr Fs knowledge 
and intention before it recorded the fraud marker against him when it looks like it didnt 
speak to him before doing so.
That said, even though it would have been preferrable for HSBC to have contacted Mr F 
before recording the fraud marker. I dont think that doing so would have made too much of a 
difference here. I say this because I think there is enough here to suggest that Mr F 
knowingly and dishonestly provided HSBC with false information. 
HSBC says that Mr F failed to disclose his previous address history. It was concerned by the 
fact that Mr F said that hed lived at his current address since June 2015. But this wasnt 
supported by other information showing that hed lived at other addresses during this period. 
Furthermore, and perhaps most importantly, one of the addresses which ended up being left 
off Mr Fs application had negative information recorded against him  namely a default that 
had been recorded within the previous 12 months. And as this information about previous 
addresses is likely to have impacted HSBCs decision on whether to provide Mr F with an 
account, Im satisfied that it was a material falsehood.
I know that Mr F says that another application was made in his name by people who had 
stolen his provisional driving licence. It isnt entirely clear whether Mr F is referring to the 
further bank account application made to HSBC in August 2021, or the application for credit  
made at the undisclosed address which defaulted in July 2020. But in any event, Im 
satisfied that Mr F made the initial application and that during this application he said hed 
lived at his current address since June 2015. And this isnt the case. 
Its possible that its merely a coincidence that the address Mr F didnt disclose was one with 
a default. But given the clarity of the question asked, I think it is more likely than not that this 
discrepancy was knowing and deliberate, rather than an innocent mistake. So Im satisfied 
that this address discrepancy meant that HSBC had sufficient evidence to record a fraud 
marker against Mr F. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that HSBC did have sufficient 
evidence to record an application fraud marker against Mr F. As this is the case, I dont think 
that HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F and Im not upholding his complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr F  especially given the impact he says the 
marker is having. Be that as it may I cant simply ignore the fact that the available evidence 
appears to show that HSBC didnt act unfairly here. So I hope Mr F will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
HSBC has offered Mr F £75 for the problems it had issuing a final response letter to him. As 
Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint, I leave it up to Mr F to decide whether he wishes to 
accept HSBCs offer  especially as the question of whether respondent firms issues final 
responses in a timely matter is a matter for the regulator rather than this service.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman