DRN-3575709
The complaint
Ms O has complained that Erudio Student Loans Limited did not make it clear what medical 
evidence was needed.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with what happened, so Ill summarise things in brief.
This complaint surrounds a mortgage-style student loan account which was terminated in 
October 2020.
In 2021, Ms O asked for her account to be reinstated on medical grounds, and Erudio asked 
her for evidence from a doctor or medical professional.
Ms O provided a word document from her doctor. But Erudio explained they couldnt accept 
this as it was in an editable format and did not provide the dates or periods that Ms O was 
unable to manage her account. They asked if she could send a signed, dated doctors letter 
from the last 12 months which told them the periods for when Ms O was unable to manage 
her account. Erudio accepted they had not made these requirements clear before. So they 
apologised and offered Ms O £50 compensation.
Ms O came to our service. She explained that this was very stressful, and that she had 
to pay £30 for each doctors letter.
Our investigator looked into things independently and thought £200 compensation would 
be fairer to take into account the impact this had had for Ms O. But Erudio thought the 
amount theyd already offered was fair. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Ms O has also raised concerns about her loan account not 
previously being deferred, and about it being terminated. However, as our investigator 
explained, we are not able to consider those issues as Ms O brought them to us more than 
six months after Erudios final response. So, for example, in this decision I cannot tell 
Erudio to undo the default and reinstate the account.
With that said, I will note that from what Ive seen, I understand Ms O was earning over the 
threshold for deferment at the time, which would suggest her deferment would not have 
gone through anyway. And while she did make payments before the default, she was only 
paying about £30 a month, whereas her contractual minimum payment was over £100, 
meaning that despite her payments she was falling over £70 further into arrears each 
month. This tends to suggest that her account was going to terminate regardless. And 
because her account was terminated, the original terms no longer apply  which means 
she cant apply for deferment anymore and the account will not normally get cancelled at 
age 50. So while I cannot investigate those points any further, due to them being outside of 
our jurisdiction, I hope this provides some helpful context for Ms O.
Similarly, I understand that Ms O is unhappy with the situation of having her student loans 
being sold on and being spread across different companies, with all the paperwork that 
involves. And I do appreciate where shes coming from. But Im not able to deal with or 
change how the student loan system works in general  were an informal dispute 
resolution service, not the regulator, and so I can only look at what happened in this 
individual case.
I am able to consider this situation, regarding Erudio asking for medical evidence. I should 
explain that Erudio are allowed to ask for such evidence, and its generally reasonable that 
they do  otherwise they wouldnt be able to objectively assess the situation. This is a rather 
standard practice, not a personal slight against Ms O. I have not seen any correspondence 
where Erudio said or reasonably implied that they were questioning her character. Further, 
the evidence requirements theyve set out seem reasonable in this case.
The problem is that Erudio did not make these requirements clear to Ms O up front  which 
they have accepted they got wrong. Im glad that Erudio apologised and offered her some 
compensation. However, the £50 they offered doesnt even cover the two £30 fees that Ms 
O has to pay for the doctors letter she already got, and for the new one shell 
need to get now. Further, I understand that this situation has been most frustrating for Ms O, 
that its difficult for her to get these letters due to how busy her doctor is, and that its 
awkward for her that she now has to ask for a letter a second time. Erudio have caused Ms 
O losses in terms of time and stress, which were exacerbated by her medical condition and 
the tough time shes been going through more generally  which they were broadly aware of.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award. Taking everything into 
account, I agree with our investigator that Erudio should pay Ms O £200 compensation in 
total for the impact of not making the requirements clear for the medical evidence.
If Ms O would still like Erudio to consider her medical situation, she should now provide them 
with a new letter from her doctor which meets the requirements that have now been set out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Os complaint in part, and direct Erudio Student 
Loans Limited to pay her £200 compensation in total.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman