DRN-3361445
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him fee-paying a Premier 
packaged bank account in August 2007, and a Club Lloyds package, that was added to his 
Premier account in June 2017. 
What happened
Mr Hs account history is as follows:
Sold as a fee-paying Select account  29 October 1998
Upgraded to a fee-paying Gold Service  20 June 2006
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account  18 July 2006
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account  23 August 2007
Club Lloyds package added  26 June 2017
Lloyds said that our service is unable to consider Mr Hs complaint about the sale of his 
Premier account. 
I issued a decision on 27 January 2022 to explain that our service is unable to consider Mr 
Hs complaint about the sale of his Premier account. Now that aspect of the complaint has 
been resolved, I cant comment any further about that sale  although I would like to assure 
Mr H that the time limits mentioned in my previous decision apply to his complaint regardless 
of whether he referred the complaint himself, or if he was represented by third party.
An adjudicator then went on to assess whether the Club Lloyds package was mis-sold and 
she concluded that it had not been. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so 
the matter was referred again for an ombudsmans decision.
As our service is unable to consider Mr Hs complaint about the sale of his Premier account, 
this decision will only address whether the Club Lloyds package was mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that Mr H and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont think that 
the Club Lloyds account was mis-sold. 
I think it might help first, to explain that for me to find in Mr Hs favor, I would need to be 
satisfied that Lloyds did something wrong, or acted unfairly, when Mr H took out the Club 
Lloyds package. And if that has happened, only then would I need to consider what 
detriment, if any, Mr H suffered.
Mr H has said that he was paying for services that he didnt use, such as travel insurance 
and mobile phone insurance. However, neither of these products were included in the Club 
Lloyds package. And even if they were, just because Mr H hasnt used a product that is 
included in a package on his account, doesnt necessarily mean that the package was mis-
sold.
As explained by the adjudicator, the Club Lloyds package isnt a packaged bank account. It 
is an add-on to an existing account, in Mr Ts case, a Premier Account. The Club Lloyds 
package is available on fee-free accounts, but can also be added to packaged accounts too. 
At the time Mr H took out the Club Lloyds package, it cost £3 per month and for this, account 
holders received interest on credit balances between £1,000 to £5,000. The package also 
offered discounts on other financial products as well as access to a choice of lifestyle 
benefits such as cinema tickets and dinning offers.  
Lloyds records show that Mr H applied for the Club Lloyds package online. So Im satisfied 
that Mr H chose to add the package to his account and did so knowing it was an optional 
product. Furthermore, Mr H has not said anything to suggest he was given incorrect or 
misleading information about the Club Lloyds package.
Mr H says that the account shouldve been sold face-to-face and not online. Mr H says that 
applying for the product online led to him agreeing to something he was not fully conversant 
with. But Mr H chose to apply for the Club Lloyds package online himself. So I cant 
reasonably hold Lloyds responsible because he chose to continue with the application for a 
product online that he says he did not fully understand. Afterall, Mr H couldve gone to a 
Lloyds branch to get more information about the Club Lloyds package and discussed it face-
to-face, before deciding whether it was worth taking out. 
Having reviewed this complaint, ultimately it seems that Mr H chose to add a Club Lloyds 
package to his account online, even though he didnt really understand what it included. And 
because of this, he now wants Lloyds to refund him the costs of that package. 
But for me to ask Lloyds to refund the Club Lloyds fees, I would need to conclude that Lloyds 
has actually done something wrong. With this in mind, as I cant see that Lloyds has done 
anything wrong or has acted unfairly, when Mr H applied for the Club Lloyds package, I dont 
think it would be appropriate to require Lloyds to refund those fees.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman