DRN-3214949
The complaint
Ms T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wrongly increased her mortgage 
balance when she ported her mortgage to a new property. She asks that NatWest corrects 
the balance, refunds overpayments and pays compensation for the stress this caused her.
What happened
Ms T had a mortgage with NatWest. In 2021 she moved home and ported her mortgage to 
the new property. Ms T says the new mortgage has a higher balance than the mortgage she 
redeemed, even though she didnt borrow more and maintained payments throughout.
NatWest says its service was poor and it gave Ms T incorrect information when she called. It 
incorrectly told her the balance of her new mortgage was wrong. NatWest paid £350 for the 
upset caused by this.
Our investigator said while NatWest made an error, the compensation paid by NatWest was 
fair for the upset caused. 
Ms T didnt agree. She said it was biased to reach an outcome without speaking to her and 
asked that all the information she sent is taken into account. Ms T has said how worried she 
is that her mortgage balance is too high and that shes out of pocket as a result. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Ms T that Ive taken all of her comments and the information and evidence 
shes sent into account. Were an informal dispute resolution service and we dont usually 
have hearings. I havent spoken to either party to this complaint. Having read the available 
evidence, I dont think I need to do so to reach a fair decision.
Ms T has told us how distressing she has found this matter. At the heart of this complaint is 
Ms Ts worry that shes being asked to repay more that she owes. Ive looked carefully at the 
evidence to see if NatWest made an error with Ms Ts mortgage balance.
When lenders refer to porting a mortgage, this doesnt mean the mortgage is transferred 
from one property to another. What happens is that the first mortgage is repaid. A new 
mortgage is created for the new property, on the same terms (such as the interest rate) as 
the previous mortgage.
Ms T completed a fact find in April 2021. At that time, her mortgage balance was about 
£191,300. (Ive rounded the numbers used in this decision.) NatWest issued a mortgage 
offer for £191,300.
Ms Ts sale and purchase completed in June 2021. She repaid her previous mortgage. At 
that time, the balance was about £189,900. As Ms T has correctly said, this was lower than 
the balance in April 2021 as shed made monthly payments since then. NatWests records 
show it received £189,900 into the mortgage account. On the same day, Ms T took out a 
new mortgage to buy her new home. This was for £191,300  the amount set out in the 
mortgage offer sent to Ms T.
NatWest said in its final response letter that it lends the amount in the mortgage offer, not an 
amount equal to the remaining balance of the previous mortgage. I think this is fair. It allows 
borrowers and their solicitors to plan for the amount of the deposit required for the purchase. 
Most likely, the purchase of Ms Ts new property was funded by the mortgage and her 
deposit. If Ms Ts new mortgage had been for the same (lower) amount as the final balance 
of her previous mortgage, shed have had to pay a larger deposit to make up the difference. 
I dont think NatWest made an error with the redemption of Ms T previous mortgage. Or the 
balance of her new mortgage. But I do understand the fact there was a difference between 
the closing balance of the old mortgage and the opening balance of the new mortgage 
caused confusion. Ms T hadnt expected this, and NatWest didnt explain why this was when 
Ms T contacted it. NatWest initially said it had made an error with the balance of the new 
mortgage and told Ms T it would correct this.
This was an error. It increased Ms Ts worry about the mortgage balance being wrong. Ms T 
told us about her anxiety and how stressful this has been for her. I think its right that 
NatWest pays compensation. But I dont think this makes it fair to require NatWest to reduce 
the balance of Ms Ts mortgage. Ive explained why below.
Ms T wasnt caused a financial loss. Her payments between April and June 2021 were 
applied to her mortgage account and reduced the balance. She paid the correct (lower) 
balance when she repaid the mortgage. If Ms Ts new mortgage had been for a lower 
amount Ms T would have had to pay a larger deposit for her purchase.
NatWest gave Ms T correct information about the amount of the new mortgage in the 
fact find and in the mortgage offer. This was the basis on which Ms T agreed to go 
ahead with porting the mortgage.
While Ms T says shed have gone elsewhere instead of porting if shed known her new 
mortgage balance would be as set out in the mortgage offer (rather than equal to the 
final balance of her previous mortgage) this seems unlikely. If Ms T hadnt ported her 
mortgage shed have had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC). The fact find says 
she wanted to avoid this.
NatWests final response letter explained why the balance of Ms Ts new mortgage was 
higher than shed expected. NatWest said Ms T can make an overpayment to reduce the 
mortgage balance to the amount of the final balance of her previous mortgage, if she wants 
to do so, without any ERC being applied. And it paid £350 for its poor service and the stress 
and worry this caused. I know that Ms T feels strongly about this, and Im sorry if shes 
disappointed with my decision. I think though that the steps taken and compensation paid by 
NatWest are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms T has said shes struggling with her mortgage payments. If Ms T has financial difficulties, 
Id urge her to contact NatWest to see what support it can offer. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think National 
Westminster Bank Plc has done enough to put matters right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman