DRN-3444534
The complaint
Mr O complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) unfairly registered a fraud marker against him and 
closed his account.  
What happened
Mr O opened a TSB account in April 2020. Later that month he received several payments 
into his account, which he withdrew on the same day. The payments into Mr Os account 
which were dispersed were reported to TSB as fraudulent by other banks. 
TSB carried out a review and decided to close Mr Os account with immediate effect and 
applied a CIFAS fraud marker against him. Mr O says he had no knowledge he was the 
recipient of fraudulent funds and intended to send them back. 
He wants the CIFAS marker removed as he is unable to open a bank account which is 
causing him substantive inconvenience. 
TSB did not uphold Mr Os complaint. The matter was then referred to our service. One of 
our Investigators looked into the matter, and in summary they found: 
- CIFAS applied the misuse of facility marker fairly against Mr O as it had enough 
evidence to do this
- Mr O was likely complicit with the fraud as the activity was unusual and consistent 
with fraudulent behaviour. Also, Mr O said he thought the funds were from his mother 
or income from contractual work. But if that was the case, he wouldve been able to 
check if it was his mother who sent them to him, and if he wasnt expecting them, its 
questionable why he withdrew them so quickly
Mr O hasnt given strong enough evidence to show he was expecting payment from 
paid contractual work for the amounts that entered his account to explain why he had 
withdrawn them 
As Mr O was unhappy with what our Investigator concluded, the matter has now been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr O, 
so Ill explain why. 
CIFAS marker 
The marker TSB have filed with CIFAS is intended to record theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds.
To file such a marker, TSBs not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt Mr O is guilty of 
a fraud or financial crime, but they must show there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show fraudulent funds have 
entered Mr Os account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Secondly, 
TSB will need to have strong evidence to show the consumer was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payments and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment.
A marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be 
enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. So, I need to consider whether TSB has 
enough evidence to meet the standard of proof and load a marker for misuse of facility with 
CIFAS.
TSB have shown me internal records which show it received reports from other banks of 
fraudulent funds being received into Mr Os account from its customers. Mr O accepts these 
were fraudulent funds  albeit he says he thought they werent when he first received them. 
So, Im satisfied TSB have shown fraudulent funds entered Mr Os account. 
TSB havent been able to show Mr O was deliberately dishonest and knew the payments 
might be, or were, illegitimate. Because of this I think TSB should have investigated the 
matter better than it has  it needs to have had enough evidence Mr O was witting. 
Having said that, our Investigator has spoken to Mr O about the funds he received and why 
he spent them as soon as they came in. I have listened to this call and Mr O says they were 
likely sent to him by his mother or from contractual work. 
The TSB account was recently opened in April 2020. The payments into the account were 
from private individuals, not companies Mr O says he worked for. The evidence Mr O has 
given to us does not show he was expecting the amounts he received. 
Mr O says he doesnt have the exact payslips anymore  but he does have older ones. That 
is unfortunate. Having thought about this, I find this explanation implausible and 
unsubstantiated. Thats because he couldve checked the source of funds, and theres no 
compelling evidence he was expecting these funds in the way they entered his account.  
Secondly, Mr O suggests the money may have been from his mother. He wasnt expecting 
any money from his mother  so I question why Mr O didnt query her about it before 
withdrawing the money so quickly. This in turn would have led him to discover or question 
the source of funds. And, if he was unwitting, discover they may have been sent to him, at 
best, in error. 
Mr O could easily have checked where these payments had come from before quickly 
withdrawing them as he did. Both the explanations Mr O puts forward are also inconsistent 
with each other, he was either expecting contractual income or there was good reason why 
his mother would have sent him the funds. On balance, having carefully weighed things up, Im persuaded its likely Mr O was complicit 
and knew the payments into his account were illegitimate. As I said before, this is something 
TSB should have looked into before applying the marker. But, given what Ive said above, I 
think it has added the marker fairly and the standard of proof required to load such a marker 
has been met. 
Account closure 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account. 
Having carefully reviewed the information TSB have given me, I think it acted fairly by 
closing Mr Os account in the way it did. I say that because TSB applied its terms fairly given 
it had genuine concern about Mr Os activities. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman