DRN-1711890
 
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed a fraudulent transaction to debit his 
account. Mr M would like HSBC to acknowledge its mistake and admit it shouldnt have let 
it happen. 
What happened
A debit card payment for £77.80 was made to a shoe retailer on 13 May 2019. Mr M didnt 
make this payment and called to report it to HSBC on 14 May 2019. HSBC refunded the 
transaction that day as it agreed it was made without Mr Ms authorisation.
Mr M complained as he believes HSBCs fraud systems shouldve recognised the 
transactions as fraudulent and stopped it from debiting. He says it shouldve been 
highlighted as it was made abroad, and he hadnt notified HSBC that he was out of the 
country. Mr M says HSBCs failure to prevent this has had a major impact on his wellbeing 
due to the stress and worry of someone else being able to access his account. 
HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It explained that some transactions arent highlighted 
by its fraud detection systems as they may not fall in line with the fraud trends at the time. 
HSBC also said that even if a customer lets them know they are going abroad, their fraud 
detection system may still flag transactions as potentially fraudulent. 
Mr M remained unhappy so brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. She explained that HSBC refunded the transaction straight away and 
that HSBCs fraud prevention systems can miss transactions. She was satisfied HSBC 
followed the correct procedure and explained that this service cant punish the bank for not 
picking up the transaction. 
Mr M asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He explained it was a 
matter of principle as he doesnt feel HSBC has followed its safeguarding procedures in 
protecting his private information. The complaint has therefore been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably make additional checks 
before processing a payment to help protect customers from the possibility of fraud. 
Ive considered whether the transaction was sufficiently unusual or out of character that the 
bank ought to have been concerned about it and intervened. Having done so I do agree that 
there were certain characteristics of the transactions that could be considered as unusual 
when compared to Mr Ms usual account usage. For example, the fact the transaction was 
made abroad and was processed using the magnetic strip rather than chip and PIN. However, I dont believe these are enough to say HSBC shouldve picked up the transaction 
for additional checks. Although the transaction was made abroad and Mr M hadnt told 
HSBC he was travelling, this wouldnt necessarily be a reason for concern for HSBC. Its 
usual for customers to travel and not inform their bank. In addition to this, the amount in 
question wasnt particularly high when compared to Mr Ms usual outgoings from the account 
and it didnt form part of a series of unusual transactions either. So on the whole, while I 
understand Mr M reasons for being unhappy with HSBCs lack of action, it wouldnt be fair 
for me to say it made an error in not flagging this transaction. 
In any event, I have to take into account that HSBC refunded Mr M immediately when he 
raised the transaction with it. So even if I was to conclude HSBC shouldve picked up the 
transaction as out of character, it did what I would expect it to do, so I wouldnt be making 
any recommendations to it. 
I can see Mr M is very worried that his personal details have been compromised. I can 
understand this concern given someone other than him was able to transact on his account. 
However, whether this transaction had debited or not, Mr M would still have the same 
concerns that his details had been compromised somehow. 
Mr M feels HSBC has failed him in not protecting his private information but unfortunately 
fraudsters have sophisticated ways of obtaining card details and in the majority of these 
situations, this cant be prevented by the bank. Ive seen nothing to suggest HSBC were to 
blame for the compromise here. Mr Ms concerns therefore ultimately stem from the actions 
of the unknown fraudster who carried out the transactions, not HSBC. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman