DRN-2576218
The complaint
Ms A complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim she made on her 
motor insurance policy.
Any reference to AXA also includes its agents.
What happened
In 2019, Ms A was involved in an accident whilst in her car. She made a claim on her motor 
insurance policy, which AXA accepted. As part of the claim, the car needed to be repaired, 
and as Ms A wasnt at fault for the accident, AXA passed her details onto a car rental 
company to provide her with a rental car. 
Ms A complained to AXA about the car rental representative, she said they made her feel 
uncomfortable and bullied, she also wasnt happy with its general conduct. 
When Ms A raised the complaint with this service, AXA offered her £100 compensation for 
any unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. Our investigator thought this was 
reasonable.
Ms A didnt accept this, she said AXAs attitude had been unhelpful when she was trying to 
recover from her injuries and the mental health problems caused by her accident. As Ms A 
didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
Ms A has raised other issues with AXA and other parties relating to the accident, but they 
are being dealt with separately, and wont form part of this decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA doesnt dispute what Ms A has said about how she was treated by the car rental 
company, so I dont need to consider this further. The only thing for me to decide is whether 
its offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to recognise the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience its agent caused. 
AXA has offered £100 compensation as an apology for the poor service Ms A received. I 
think this is reasonable. I understand this had been a difficult time for Ms A, shed been 
involved in an accident where shed suffered injuries and was already distressed. It is right 
that AXA compensates her for the poor service carried out by one of its agents. It seems 
they were slightly late for Ms As appointment and tone of its representatives made her feel 
uncomfortable. She also felt it had contacted another party without her permission. But I 
dont think it needs to award any more compensation. AXA has recognised the impact its 
had on Ms A and £100 is in line with what this service would have awarded, had AXA not 
made an offer. 
Whilst Ms A doesnt agree £100 reflects AXAs overall poor handling, as set out above my 
findings in this decision are limited to those only of the car rental agent.   
My final decision
My final decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc is required to pay £100 for distress and 
inconvenience, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman