DRN-3292396
The complaint
Miss G complains that TSB Bank Plc refuses to refund payments she says she did not make 
or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
Around April 2017, Miss G was approached by an investment company Ill refer to as B who 
explained to her that they were helping people earn interest on their savings. From 21 April 
2017 to 2 May 2017, 15 payments were made to B totalling £27,500. Of these payments, 
Miss G says she did not authorise eight payments totalling £17,700. Miss G says she 
realised it was a scam when B promised to call her and didnt. The final payment in the list of 
disputed transactions were taken by another merchant Ill call C and Miss G says she had 
no relationships or prior dealings with this merchant. 
As a result of the disputed transactions, Miss Gs account was taken into an unauthorised 
overdraft of -£12,999.33 on 2 May 2017. Miss G says she disputed the payments with TSB 
as she was the victim of a scam. But she had stopped receiving her statements and 
requested them in Jun 2018. The bank provided copy statements and she called back the 
following month to dispute the final payment taken by C. Miss G also complained about the 
outstanding balance and questioned why TSB allowed the account to go so far overdrawn 
when there was no available balance. Miss G referred her complaint to this service. 
TSB didnt address the substance of Miss Gs complaint with her directly but it did provide an 
overview to this service.
TSB said due to IT issues, it logged Miss Gs complaint on 18 June 2018, however, it wasnt 
investigated until March 2019  where it requested further information from Miss G. TSB 
says 2018 wasnt the first time Miss G became aware of the disputed balance as its 
collections team had discussions about Miss G repaying this balance in 2017. TSB feels it 
was unreasonable for Miss G to wait a year to dispute the transactions. She also only 
disputed the payment to C when she called it in June 2018 and accepted she had dealings 
with B.
TSB looked into the disputed payment to C and concluded that because Miss G had a 
relationship with B, she must have paid C too. It therefore felt it was the same company, 
possibly linked as sister companies. TSB could not provide evidence that the transactions 
were authorised correctly but did note that Miss G was moving money between her accounts 
during the time of the dispute. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and felt that Miss G hadnt authorised all 
the payments to B or C and suggested TSB refund the disputed payments. TSB did not 
respond.
 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold the complaint and I will explain why.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss G isnt liable for 
unauthorised transactions, unless Miss G failed with gross negligence of intent to comply 
with the terms of the account or keep personalised security details safe. 
Ive considered whether Miss G authorised the transactions that has been disputed  and so, 
in line with the PSRs, whether she completed the agreed steps to make the payments or 
gave consent for someone else to complete them. 
TSB doesnt have the technical evidence to support that Miss G authorised or authenticated 
the payments in dispute. Ive reviewed its argument that Miss G didnt dispute the payments 
until a year later. But Miss G says she did. I find Miss Gs testimony that she did raise this 
matter with TSB shortly after the transactions were taken to be more persuasive than TSBs 
suggestion that she did not. 
Ive seen from the bank statements provided by TSB that Miss G was permitted to make a 
counter withdrawal of £706.80 on 8 May 2017. But there are no notes as to why this was 
permitted and there must have been a conversation and an agreement for Miss G to 
withdraw this money whilst her account was so significantly overdrawn. Ive also seen that 
collections were in contact with Miss G on 12 June 2017 where she discussed her account 
balance, but she also mentions the disputes team were handling this matter. 
A further note recorded on the same day states:
customer wanted to know the upcoming procedures wrt the dispute if the dispute 
will be in favor of the merchant. Advised she would have to pay any int and charges 
and is liable for the balance
So, Im satisfied that Miss G did raise her dispute about B in 2017, shortly after her 
transactions, not in 2018 for the first time (as suggested by TSB). But I think that rather than 
deal with whether Miss G authorised all the payments to B and because she accepted she 
engaged in investment activities with them, TSB considered her claim of being the victim of a 
scam, not her claim that she didnt authorise all of the payments to B. I do think that Miss G 
accepted that TSB were unable to recover her money in regards to the payments to B and 
attempted to arrange repayment of the outstanding debt. But I also accept that she likely 
didnt receive regular bank statements as the account had been passed to collections and 
recoveries very shortly after the payment to C. So I dont think its unreasonable that Miss G 
didnt notice the payment to C until she received a copy of her bank statements in June 
2018. I also dont think its unreasonable that the focus of her complaint was this disputed 
transaction, followed by concerns about TSB allowing her account to go so far overdrawn  
thats because she accepted TSB couldnt recover her disputed payments to B in 2017.
Im unclear on what steps TSB took at the time this matter was referred to its disputes team 
because it hasnt kept notes provided notes on this. Ive also not seen that TSB attempted 
chargeback claims on her behalf.  
Ive noted that Miss G was moving money between her savings account and current account 
around the time of her payments to B. But Ive also seen that it was a newly opened account 
and money was being moved for the purpose of outward payments, some of which were 
undisputed payments to B, others were undisputed faster payments referenced savings. Overall, Im not satisfied that TSB appropriately considered Miss Gs claim that some 
payments to B and the payment to C were taken from her account without her consent. TSB 
cannot provide evidence that Miss G authenticated the payments in dispute and Im also 
persuaded by Miss Gs account of events that she did not authorise all of the payments to B 
and the payment to C. I dont think Miss G would have authorised payments that would have 
taken her into such a significant overdrawn balance that she could not afford to repay. 
Even though Im satisfied that Miss G didnt authorise all the payments to B and the payment 
to C. I have to consider whether she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms and conditions of her account or keep her personalised security details safe. Its clear 
the point of compromise here was Miss G providing B with her card details in order to 
authorise the payments to them. 
Ive seen that B was regulated by CySEC and had passporting rights through the FCA at the 
time of Miss Gs payments. But in 2021, the FCA removed their passporting rights and 
noted:
The FCA identified serious concerns with the sales and marketing practices of B, 
including the use of misleading financial promotions which made unrealistic claims 
about the likely returns, failed to state clearly the nature of the financial instruments 
being marketed and failed to outline the risks involved in trading CFDs. The Group 
and its affiliates frequently contacted consumers directly, using social media 
platforms to make contact and market their products.
In many cases, social media showed the affiliates leading an opulent lifestyle which 
they claimed was being funded through trading and could be emulated, which was 
not the case. In fact, the affiliates were paid substantial commission for referring 
customers to the Group. 
Given the FCAs concerns about B acting in a misleading way (after all her payments were 
taken), I dont think Miss G could reasonably have known she wasnt dealing with a 
legitimate company when she provided her card details to them. I think a lot of people might 
have acted in the same way as Miss G under the circumstances. I dont think she could have 
foreseen that B could take money without her permission. So I dont think Miss G has failed 
with gross negligence or intent to keep her security credentials safe in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of her account. 
So for the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Distress and inconvenience 
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the FCA Handbook  that we may 
give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested;
And that.
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with the consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material 
distress or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he 
decides to make. Although most of Miss Gs distress or inconvenience probably resulted from the criminal acts 
of B, I think TSB could have done more to protect her from the impact of its statutory duty to 
co-operate with our complaints process (DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook). 
I therefore consider £200 compensation for distress or inconvenience to be appropriate. I 
consider it has caused her further distress and inconvenience in not responding to our 
deadlines. 
I realise compensation hasnt previously been awarded, but given where we are in the 
complaint journey and that compensation is a matter of my discretion, I think its appropriate 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and TSB Bank Plc should:
Refund to Miss G the eight unauthorised payments taken by B totalling £17,700. The 
payments may be used to clear any outstanding debt owed to TSB by Miss G in 
relation to her overdrawn balance caused by these payments. 
Pay 8% simple interest on any remaining amount not used to settle the debt from the 
respective dates of loss. If TSB deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it 
should provide Miss G with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Refund any interest and charges applied to Miss Gs account as a result of the 
unauthorised payments.
Pay Miss G £200 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman