DRN-1934353
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc (Axa) handled a claim on 
their home insurance policy.
Where dates are provided for events leading up to the complaint, these all took place in 
2019. All references to Axa will include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G submitted a claim to Axa following an escape of water in their home on 
29 April. Soon after, Axa began remedial works to dry out the property and to assess the 
damage. Amongst other things, a claims handler was appointed by Axa to validate and 
manage the claim on its behalf. 
A cash settlement for the contents part of the claim was agreed with Mr and Mrs G on 
7 June. The buildings part of their claim remained outstanding  a quote was submitted for 
this part by Mr and Mrs G on 12 June. On 17 June Axa contacted Mr and Mrs G to discuss 
this quote as it said it was considerably higher than its agents initial estimate. A revisit to 
the property was then arranged to validate Mr and Mrs Gs quote, which took place on 20 
June. Another offer was made by Axa on 28 June. But this wasnt accepted by Mr and Mrs G 
who said it was too low. So they provided two further quotes on 9 July. Further 
correspondence ensued and a cash settlement was agreed for the buildings part of the claim 
on 15 August.
Mr and Mrs G complained to Axa about communication issues they experienced, particularly 
in the latter stages of the claim. A request for more information and a further quote wasnt 
responded to for several days  they said, the lack of communication from Axas agent, 
caused a delay to the commencement of the building works. Axa acknowledged that there 
were times when its agent hadnt returned calls as quickly as they could have. So it offered 
£150 compensation to Mr and Mrs G for any trouble and upset this caused. 
Mr and Mrs G werent satisfied with Axas response. So they referred their complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked at this matter. After reviewing the overall contact 
with Mr and Mrs G, our investigator didnt think their claim had been delayed unreasonably 
by Axa or its appointed agents. And she felt their requests had been dealt with in a 
reasonably timely manner on most occasions. She did note there were a few occasions 
where communications with Mr and Mrs G couldve been better. But she felt Axas offer of 
£150 compensation was a fair response.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They said because of the communication issues with Axas 
agent, in particular, its claim handler, they were forced to postpone the works theyd planned 
by around a month. They had a builder waiting to do the repairs but because of the poor 
communication from Axa, the builder moved on to another job before coming back to 
complete Mr and Mrs Gs building works. They didnt think £150 was a fair reflection of the 
distress Axa had caused and felt it should offer considerably more compensation. So theyve 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm very aware that I've summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and I've 
done so using my own words. I'm not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved  no discourtesy is intended by this. Instead I've focused on what I think are 
the key issues here. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about what 
happened I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
This has clearly been a very frustrating experience for Mr and Mrs G. An escape of water 
can be very upsetting for the occupants. They have to live with the damage on a daily basis 
and naturally want things putting back to normal as quickly as possible. Mr and Mrs G 
expected Axa to handle their claim as efficiently and painlessly as possible. But 
unfortunately some degree of distress and inconvenience is inevitable in such situations. I 
can see the leak affected a number of rooms as well as furniture and it was necessary to co-
ordinate various contractors. And due to the extent of the damage, several quotes were 
needed before the buildings part of the claim could be settled.
Ive looked at Axas notes for the claim. I can see Mr and Mrs G felt they werent being 
responded to quickly enough by its claims handler. And that this meant there was a delay in 
the start of the repairs by the builders they (Mr and Mrs G) had appointed. 
Our investigator gave a relevant timeline in her view, so I wont repeat that here. From this 
timeline and the key events which Ive summarised above, its clear that most of the delays 
were the result of different quotes being needed rather than the communication issues with 
Axas agent. 
The majority of calls and emails from Mr and Mrs G, were dealt with reasonably timely 
manner by Axa and its agents. But I can see there were a few instances where it took a bit 
longer than Axas standard timescales. Notably, the agent didnt respond to Mr and Mrs Gs 
request for more information before they sent in a second quote  but I can see that once 
this quote was received, which was needed before a settlement could be reached, the agent 
contacted Mr and Mrs G within a few days. So whilst I appreciate this was a frustrating time 
for Mr and Mrs G, I dont think the issues with some of Axas communications caused 
unreasonable delays to the overall claims process.
Mr and Mrs G felt the claim was only settled because they were constantly calling and 
chasing Axa to keep things moving. But whilst I recognise the contributions Mr and Mrs G 
made to keeping everything moving forwards, most of the back and forth with Axa and its 
agents, were due to the efforts both sides were making to reach a fair settlement. As Ive 
said, this involved obtaining several quotes, following up on these quotes and arranging a 
further visit to the property by Axas agent to reassess the damage. 
That said, Axa has accepted that not everything went as smoothly as it could have. Its 
apologised for the inconvenience caused and offered £150 to Mr and Mrs G. I know Mr and 
Mrs G would like Axa to increase its offer. But for the reasons Ive outlined above, I think 
thats a reasonable amount in the circumstances. And I wont be asking Axa to do anything 
more.
My final decisionIm not upholding this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc have made an offer I think is fair and 
reasonable so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman