DRN-3709270
The complaint
Miss W has complained that MBNA Limited (MBNA) unfairly turned down her claim under 
s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) following the purchase of a timeshare.
The timeshare was taken out in Miss W and Mr Ps names, but as the credit card used was 
Miss Ws, this complaint is hers to make.
What happened
On 10 October 2015, Miss W and Mr P bought a timeshare membership whilst on holiday 
overseas. The timeshare meant they could stay at a set apartment for a set week every two 
years in an American resort (the Property). The total cost of this was $3,639, but this was 
not all paid on the day. Instead, Miss W and Mr P paid smaller deposits, one on Miss Ws 
MBNA card, and then entered into a loan agreement with the timeshare provider to pay for 
the rest in instalments. Around a month later the loan was paid in full by Miss W using her 
MBNA credit card.
At the same time, Miss W and Mr P were enrolled with a timeshare exchange company (the 
Exchange Company), so they could exchange their holiday week and stay at destinations 
other than the Property. As part of the sale, Miss W and Mr P were also given the chance to 
use the Exchange Company to go on other holidays for two weeks without the need to 
exchange their timeshare week, but for an additional fee.
In February 2016, Miss W made a claim under s.75 CCA to MBNA, however it did not accept 
the claim. In September 2016 the claim was made again, this time by a professional 
representative (TS), making it on Miss Ws behalf. TS argued there was a 
misrepresentation made during a lengthy, pressured sales process. In particular it was 
alleged:
Miss W and Mr P were not told that when they booked their additional weeks through 
the Exchange Company that they had to book 45 days in advance to receive the set 
rate of $294 for accommodation.
Miss W and Mr P were not advised that this set fee of $294 could increase 
dependent on availability.
Miss W and Mr P were told they would receive 40% off all flights on top of the flight 
rate set by the Exchange Company.
Miss W and Mr P were not told that the maintenance fees could rise between 2 and 
4% per year.
In addition, it was said that the certificate for the additional two weeks through the Exchange 
Company was not provided at the time of purchase. Then, once the certificate was provided, 
it was unsigned and had the wrong reference number on it. And the actual maintenance fees 
charged were $317 rather than $316, which was recorded at the time of sale.
MBNA considered the claim, but it did not think a successful s.75 CCA claim had been made 
out. As the claim was turned down, TS sent a complaint to our service that the claim had not 
been fairly considered.1
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should have been upheld. 
He felt that Miss Ws memories of the sale were persuasive and that it was likely there was a 
pressured and rushed sale. He thought it was likely Miss W had been told she would be able 
to get a 40% discount on flights. He also thought it was persuasive that Miss W and Mr P 
tried to cancel the timeshare around three months later, when they say they found there 
were problems with it. So the investigator recommended MBNA to pay Miss W 
compensation.
Miss W responded to the view to ask the investigator to reconsider the amount of 
compensation he recommended to be paid, which he did. MBNA responded to say it 
disagreed with the view and asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
I considered the complaint, but came to a different conclusion to our investigator. I issued a 
provisional decision, setting out what I thought a fair answer to the complaint looked like and 
I gave both parties the chance to comment on what I had said. An extract of my provisional 
decision reads:
TS, on Miss Ws behalf made a claim under s.75(1) CCA. That provision reads:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any 
claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, 
shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
It is not in dispute that Miss W used her MBNA credit card to pay for the timeshare or 
that s.75 CCA applies to this transaction. So I need to consider whether I think MBNA 
should have accepted the claims for misrepresentation that were made.
For the purposes of this claim, for there to be an actionable misrepresentation, there 
needs to be an untrue statement of fact or law made by the timeshare supplier that 
induced Miss W and Mr P to take out the timeshare.
This is a question of fact and so I have thought carefully about what Miss W and Mr P 
said happened and also looked at the documents available from the time of sale. I 
have also seen emails from the sales staff of the timeshare provider setting some of 
their memories of what happened, although those emails were not prepared for the 
purposes of this complaint.
I have seen the purchase contract and it sets out how the timeshare was to work. It 
explains that the maintenance fees were to be assessed every year and were to 
cover common expenses, assessments and maintenance fees. I cannot see that 
there was any mention that the cost would stay the same, but I think it was implied 
that the cost could change as the fees were assessed every year.
I have also seen a document titled Extra Vacations Programme  this is one page 
long and has been signed by Miss W and Mr P. It reads:
I understand that as a purchaser of a vacation interest at [the Property], I will 
1 Although MBNA did not answer this complaint, it has not objected to our service considering it and 
maintained that it acted fairly in turning down the s.75 CCA claim.be allowed under the following conditions to receive 2 Extra Vacation(s) from 
[the Exchange Company]. For each of the Extra Vacation(s) that I receive, I 
will be permitted to reserve one week of accommodations at an [Exchange 
Company] affiliated resort. The only cost associated with the use of the Extra 
Vacations will be the then current redemption fee
I must request an [Exchange Company] exchange through the Program from 
2 to 45 days prior to my requested travel date and the Extra Vacations must 
be used within one year
[The Exchange Company] will confirm Extra Vacations program requests on a 
space available basis and does not guarantee that any specific request will be 
confirmed. Holiday weeks and other high demand weeks are very limited and 
all confirmations are subject to availability.
I have also seen a document called Pre-Closing Acknowledgement/Weeks. It said 
that the current cumulative expenses for the maintenance fee and the real estate 
taxes per unit week was 316 A YR, which I take to mean at the time this document 
was produced in October 2015, that was the cost.
This document also set out that the Exchange Company exchange fees varied 
depending on what sort of exchange took place, that the annual membership fee was 
$185. It also set out information about the extra weeks available and said that for 
Miss W and Mr P there were two weeks available each year, that an exchange could 
be requested between 2 and 45 days before travel and the current exchange fee to 
take each extra week was $304.
Miss W and Mr P also signed and initialled a document titled [Exchange Company] 
Weeks Acknowledgement. That one page document set out, amongst other things, 
that exchange bookings were subject to availability.
Three of the alleged misrepresentations were things Miss W says they were not told 
about, in particular that they had to book any additional weeks 45 days in advance, 
that the exchange fee they had to pay could increase and that the maintenance fees 
could increase. However, there are no allegations that there were any actual 
representations made about these three things which turned out to be untrue. Instead 
the complaint is that these aspects of membership should have been highlighted to 
them, rather than for Miss W and Mr P to have to read the documents in full to find 
out how membership worked. But as I cannot see any alleged false representation, I 
do not think this concern could amount to a misrepresentation.
Miss W has said that they were told that they would receive 40% off all flights on top 
of the flight rate set by the Exchange Company. If such a representation was made, I 
can see that this could be an important reason to take out the timeshare, given that 
the savings could quite quickly be more than the total cost of the timeshare.
I have seen a number of emails from January 2016 between Miss W and the 
timeshare supplier, setting out why she wished to cancel the timeshare. The 
concerns raised included not being provided the Exchange Company certificate, not 
being told that they had to book 45 days before travel and the price was subject to 
availability and the rushed and pressured sales process. However, I cannot see any 
mention of the flight discount in the emails, which I am surprised by if it was important 
to Miss W. I also cannot see any mention of any flight discounts in the sales 
documentation. Again I find it surprising that Miss W and Mr P did not ask for 
anything in writing about the discount, given the possible benefits of the alleged representation.
Having considered everything, I do not think there is enough information for me to 
say such a representation was made. I do not have a detailed description of what 
Miss W and Mr P were told, nor how they thought any discount was to operate in 
practice. Whilst I think it is possible they were told something about discounted flights 
being available through the Exchange Company, I cannot say that they were told 
they would be entitled to 40% discounts on all flights booked in that way.
I have considered the allegation that the sales process was pressured and lengthy. 
Although I have no doubt it may have taken some time for the sale to take place, that 
cannot itself amount to a misrepresentation or breach of contract, so I do not see 
how s.75 CCA could apply to that concern.
I have thought more about the Exchange Company certificate not being provided at 
the point of sale. The timeshare provider has explained that Miss W and Mr P could 
access the exchange using a code that they provided in an email. As there is no 
allegation that Miss W and Mr P could not access the exchange or get the benefits 
they were entitled to, I will not consider this further.
Finally, I have considered whether the timeshare provider increasing the 
maintenance fee charged and paid in December 2015 by $1 was a problem. If the 
contract said the fee was one thing and then they were charged a different amount, 
that could amount to a breach of contract. Having looked at the documentation 
available, the fee quoted as $316 was described as current cumulative expenses for 
the maintenance fee and the real estate taxes per unit week. I am not able to say 
whether that meant it was the fee in 2015, but the fee in 2016 might be different. As I 
cannot see that Miss W and Mr P were told that the fee they would be charged would 
be $316, I cannot say that there was a breach of contract when they were charged 
$317.
In conclusion, I do not think MBNA acted unfairly when it turned down Miss Ws claim 
under s.75 CCA.
MBNA responded to say that it had nothing further to add.
TS responded on Miss Ws behalf. It didnt have anything further to add, but it did ask me to 
review again the evidence provided by Miss W and Mr P.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am also required by DISP 3.6.4R to take into account the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
When I have needed to make a finding of what I think happened, I have made my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say, what I think is most likely to have happened 
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having done so, I still do not think the complaint should be upheld.
I have thought again about the evidence provided by Miss W and Mr P. Having done so, I 
have no doubt that they are giving their honest recollections of what happened and that they 
do believe something went wrong with their timeshare. But MBNA cannot be responsible for 
everything they say went wrong. It is only responsible in the circumstances set out in s.75 
CCA and, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I still dont think there is enough 
to say MBNA would be liable under that provision. So I am not going to direct it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman