DRN-3432393
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) should have done more when 
they contacted them for help with processing a chargeback.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S hold a current account with Halifax. They paid £200 for an item using their 
Visa debit card in October 2020. In February 2021, they contacted Halifax to help process a 
chargeback request.
Mr and Mrs S say they received poor service when trying to contact Halifax about the 
chargeback. Mrs S says she spent many hours on the phone over a period of around four 
days, and during that time she was transferred several times, put on hold, and on occasions 
cut off. Mrs S says this had impacted her mental health.
Halifax acknowledge they could have done more to help Mr and Mrs S. Following their 
investigation, they credited £378 to Mr and Mrs S. They broke down the costs as:
£200 for the cost of the transaction Mr and Mrs S originally contacted Halifax about.
£150 for the poor service they provided.
£24 to cover the cost of calls made by Mr and Mrs S.
£4 for deprived funds, which they say is 8% interest per annum for the time Mr and 
Mrs S didnt have their money.
Halifax also gave flowers to Mr and Mrs S. 
Mr and Mrs S, unhappy with the amount Halifax offered, wished for compensation of around 
£350,000 for the pain and suffering caused by them. Mrs S believes, among other things, 
that the £150 offered isnt enough for the time spent by her and for the mental distress this 
issue caused her. She believes the fallout from this has started a chain of events with her 
GP that will take years to recover from. They referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator found that Halifax had done enough to put things right following the service 
Mr and Mrs S received. He explained that he thought Halifax had acted fairly and reasonably 
in their attempts to put things right.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators findings. Among other things, Mrs S believes 
the customer service provided by Halifax was gross incompetence and wasnt just one 
mistake, but many. She feels the emotional distress this incident has caused hasnt been 
taken into account.
As Mr and Mrs S disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
A chargeback is a voluntary process run by a card scheme, in this instance, Visa. It is 
intended to resolve settlement disputes without the need to resort to more formal resolution. 
Examples where a chargeback may be appropriate are where goods never arrived or the 
merchant never provided them, or where goods are faulty and not as described. Before a 
card issuer like Halifax can initiate a chargeback, wed generally expect to see that the 
cardholder has attempted to resolve matters with the merchant first. This is often a 
requirement of the card scheme rules.
I have seen correspondence between Mr S and the merchant. From the information 
provided, it is likely Mr S attempted to resolve the issue with the merchant first. So I can see 
why Mr and Mrs S approached Halifax to request a chargeback.
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. The company that Mr and Mrs S paid can defend 
any chargeback claim. When that happens, Halifax can pursue it further through the 
chargeback scheme.
Halifax didnt need to raise chargebacks if its clear Mr and Mrs S would have lost. But I 
would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and 
where there is a reasonable chance of recovery.
Chargebacks arent decided on the merits of the dispute between the cardholder and 
merchant, but rather its decided on the relevant card schemes rules. Ultimately, its Visas 
guidelines and Halifax have no power to change them. So, Ive thought about whether 
Halifax fairly applied Visas guidelines when looking into Mr and Mrs S chargeback request.
Timescales for submitting a chargeback are quite strict. One of the rules set out by Visa in 
their chargeback scheme is that any chargeback request needs to be made within 120 days 
of the original transaction. Mr and Mrs S made the transaction to the merchant on 7 October 
2020 and so the 120 day limit ended on 4 February 2021. From what I can see, Mr and Mrs 
S raised the chargeback request with Halifax on 19 February 2021, around 135 days from 
the original transaction. Mrs S says she contacted a Halifax branch by letter on 8 February 
2021. In any event, their chargeback request was out of time. So, Im satisfied Halifax 
followed the guidelines of the chargeback scheme correctly and that chargeback rights didnt 
exist.
However, Halifax has told us, although they feel the chargeback request was processed 
correctly, they still refunded the £200 amount due to the service they provided. As detailed 
above, they credited Mr and Mrs S with the funds, along with interest, and additional funds 
for distress and inconvenience and call costs.
Mrs S has explained in detail the issues she experienced when trying to process the 
chargeback with Halifax. Halifax also explained that Mrs S was unable to access a portal to 
provide evidence about her chargeback request. They also explained that their disputed 
transactions team dont have access to make outbound calls and is why they were unable to 
call Mrs S back. They acknowledge they should have provided a better service for Mr and 
Mrs S. As it isnt in dispute that Halifax had made a mistake, Ive gone on to consider 
whether what they offered is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
Mrs S believes the impact of Halifaxs poor service and the impact on her mental health 
should result in a considerably larger amount of compensation than what was given by 
Halifax. Mrs S suggested compensation of around £350,000. But I dont think that would be fair to Halifax as I dont think the impact of their mistake should warrant an award as high as 
that amount.
I appreciate Mrs S says her mental health has suffered as a result of this issue. And I am 
mindful that the experience Mrs S had would have been frustrating, at a time which was 
likely already stressful.
I have considered how long it had taken Halifax to correct their mistake and put things right 
for Mr and Mrs S. And considering Halifax has given Mr and Mrs S the £200 disputed 
transaction amount, even when it was unlikely that chargeback rights existed, along with the 
additional funds they provided for their poor service, I think the compensation awarded by 
them was a fair amount in the circumstances.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S as I can see Mrs S firmly believes the compensation 
she was given by Halifax should be more. I do want to reassure them that I have carefully 
considered their points and arguments, but my role is to consider whether Halifax have acted 
fairly and reasonably. And for the reasons given, I think they have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman