DRN-2787263
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Coventry Building Society (Coventry) didnt instruct a 
surveyor to visit their property in person to value their property when they applied to 
remortgage. They say this would have meant there were fewer issues arising with the 
application and less delay. They then wouldnt have incurred extra costs in interest for their 
bridging loan or in having to instruct their own solicitor as the original conveyancer was 
unable to deal with the transaction due to the low automatic valuation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C applied to Coventry in January 2020 to remortgage their main residence and 
pay off a bridging loan in the sum of £400,000. The property was purchased for £1,780,000 
in October 2019 but its condition at the time of purchase meant that Mr and Mrs C were 
unable to get a standard mortgage so they had taken a bridging loan at this time, which had 
been more expensive. In their mortgage application and following construction works, Mr 
and Mrs C valued the property at £2,000,000. Mr and Mrs Cs application was initially 
declined due to matters irrelevant to this complaint but  following their appeal against this 
decision  their application was reinstated in early March.
Coventry instructed an automated desktop valuation as Mr and Mrs Cs application fell within 
its criteria to complete this type of valuation. The property was valued at £885,000. Mr and 
Mrs C say they queried this with Coventry as they didnt believe the valuer had properly 
identified their property. However, although the valuation was significantly lower than Mr and 
Mrs Cs estimation, this didnt affect the loan amount or mortgage product applied for and 
Coventry deemed there to be no business reason why it needed to instruct an internal 
inspection at that stage.
Underwriting was completed and a mortgage offer was issued on 2 April. A conveyancer 
was instructed by Coventry. The conveyancer established an issue regarding the titles on 
the property as they had established that the property had only been registered to Mr and 
Mrs C for less than six months, that there was a bridging loan secured against the property 
and that, upon purchase, Mr and Mrs C had sold two of the seven acres which formed part 
of the property to a business owned by them for the sum of £430,000. The matter was then 
referred back to Coventry on 28 April to carry out further investigations.  
The matter was referred to Coventrys Head Underwriter and the title query was resolved 
without the need for a physical valuation, by Coventry taking a first charge over both the 
main property and the two acres which had been split off. A further offer was made on 11 
May 2020 on this basis. At this point, the conveyancer appointed by Coventry confirmed it 
was unable to act as the case was too complex and related to a first charge over land 
belonging to a company. This meant Mr and Mrs C were unable to take advantage of the 
free legal service offered as part of the mortgage and had to instruct a solicitor to represent 
them at a cost of £1,683. 
Mr and Mrs C say they made Coventry and the conveyancers aware throughout that they 
needed the remortgage to complete by the end of April 2020 in order to avoid paying a 
further month of interest on the bridging loan. As the mortgage didnt complete until 18 May 
2020, this meant that they also had to pay an additional £3,500 interest on the loan. 
Mr and Mrs C say that the negligence of Coventry and the valuer was the reason for the 
delay and, had the valuation been carried out correctly, there would have been more than 
enough equity for the remortgage to go through on a standard basis without the need for a 
charge on the other two acres. There would therefore have been no need for Mr and Mrs C 
to have appointed solicitors at extra cost to finalise the conveyancing. Mr and Mrs C would 
like to be reimbursed for the extra months interest and the solicitors fees which they say 
they wouldnt have had to pay if the valuation had been completed correctly. 
Coventry says that it is satisfied that it dealt with the issue effectively and within timescales. 
Although Mr and Mrs C have faced additional costs, this was a complex transaction and it 
believes it did everything it could to progress the matter in a timely fashion. 
Our investigator looked into this complaint and concluded that the delays werent due to the 
automated valuation but due to the split title, which wouldnt have been picked up earlier 
even if there had been a physical survey. She found that Coventry wasnt aware of either the 
bridging loan or the split titles until it was informed by the conveyancer at the end of April as 
this information wasnt contained within Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application. Therefore it 
wouldnt have known the mortgage process wouldnt have been straightforward (and that its 
conveyancers wouldnt have been able to act) until the conveyancing had begun. The 
investigator therefore didnt find that Coventry had acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr 
and Mrs C.  
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. They say 
that Coventry only took a charge over the adjoining land due to the low valuation, which was 
incorrect. They say if a physical valuation had taken place the two separate titles would have 
been visible on inspection. Therefore, if Coventry had got the valuer to visit the property as 
requested and paid for, the delays wouldnt have occurred and it wouldnt have cost them 
extra money in loan interest and legal fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below.
Delay due to automated valuation
Mr and Mrs C say that had the valuer carried out their job correctly and visited the property 
they would have seen that the valuation of £885,000 was incorrect. They say they asked 
Coventry on numerous occasions to contact the valuer to establish whether the valuer had 
made a mistake when carrying out the automated valuation but it did not do so. When the 
matter was referred back to Coventry by the conveyancer, Mr and Mrs C say they discussed 
the matter with the underwriters who agreed verbally that there appeared to be a mistake. 
However, by this stage in April 2020 due to the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions valuers 
were no longer visiting properties. 
I can see that the automated valuation on the property for £885,000 was completed in 
January 2020. Ive looked at Coventrys valuation policy which indicates that an automated 
valuation was acceptable in this case, given the loan to value percentage and value of the 
property. So I dont think Coventrys decision not to conduct a physical valuation was unfair.Coventry has confirmed with the valuer that an automated valuation was provided based on 
the sales data for the property. It says that, although the property was on the market in 
August 2019 for £1,750,000, this wasnt showing as the sold price at the time the valuation 
was carried out. The last sold price was £740,000 in 2014 which Coventry says was in line 
with the valuation figure of £885,000. It was therefore satisfied that, as the valuation didnt 
affect the loan amount or application, it had been completed correctly and for the right 
property. Having considered this, I dont think it was unreasonable for Coventry to rely upon 
the valuation provided, particularly given that this didnt appear to have any effect on the 
progress of Mr and Mrs Cs application at this stage.
Once the mortgage application had been reinstated on 9 March 2020 a conversation took 
place between Coventry and Mr C. Ive seen the contact notes between Mr C and Coventry 
and can see that he was advised on 9 March that, although the valuation was lower the loan 
would be unaffected. Coventry says that Mr and Mrs C were aware on 9 March of its 
rationale for not needing a full valuation and understood this. 
I note that in Mr and Mrs Cs complaint form to this service they set out that they were 
persuaded to allow the matter to progress to offer despite the low valuation as Coventry 
didnt think this would be a problem in respect of its ability to lend. Therefore, given that Mr 
and Mrs C had agreed to proceed on the basis of the lower valuation at this stage  albeit 
without appreciating the issues which would arise subsequently  I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Coventry not to carry out a full survey at this point. 
In light of the above, Im also satisfied that Coventrys decision not to undertake a full survey 
didnt cause any delay in the completion of the mortgage. Instead, I think this process took 
longer due to the issue with the split titles and bridging loan coming to light following the 
offer. 
I also note that, although Mr and Mrs C say they paid for a survey, this was due to their 
estimated value being £2,000,000. Once the valuation came back as £885,000 the amount 
they paid for this was refunded as valuations were free for properties valued at under 
£1,000,000.
Split titles and bridging loan
Once the offer had been issued on 2 April (based on the £885,000 valuation), the 
conveyancer commenced its investigations and it then became apparent that there were 
some issues in relation to the property which Coventry had not been aware of in respect of 
the bridging loan and the split titles.
It was only once the conveyancer informed Coventry on 28 April that the property had been 
purchased for £1,780,000 only six months earlier in October 2019 that Coventry made 
enquiries with Mr and Mrs C. It was then made aware of the fact that the property was only 
being mortgaged six months later as they had taken a bridging loan due to the property not 
being mortgageable upon purchase. Mr C also made Coventry aware that some of the land 
had been sold to their company. A discussion also took place with Mr C where he indicated 
that he was unsure why the property had been valued significantly lower than estimated but 
as the lower value was still sufficient for loan purposes it was okay to proceed.
Following this, Coventry agreed that it was willing to accept the bridging loan as this would 
be paid off by the remortgage. It also made enquiries on the same day with the 
conveyancers regarding what had been valued on the title plan. Due to this new information 
Coventry also had to go back to its legal department to confirm the lending was acceptable 
as the property was covered by two titles. I can see the matter was escalated due to urgency 
on 28 April as Mr and Mrs C had indicated that they wanted to complete by 30 April. So I think Coventry tried to progress the matter as quickly as possible even once it had found out 
about these issues. And there was no guarantee that Coventry would be able to complete 
the remortgage within a certain timescale.
Ive considered whether Coventry ought to have known about the split titles earlier and 
whether it was at fault here. Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Cs application for the mortgage and I 
cant see any reference in this to the fact that the remortgage was to pay off the bridging 
loan or that the titles had been split in respect of part of the land which had been sold off. 
The application form contains a section to provide any additional information in support of 
the application but nothing was completed within this section. So I dont think Coventry ought 
to have been aware of these issues prior to them being brought to its attention by the 
conveyancer. 
Mr and Mrs C say that, had a full valuation been carried out, then the separate titles would 
have been visible on inspection. However, for the reasons set out above I dont think 
Coventry did anything wrong in not conducting a full valuation at the outset. At that stage 
they would have had no reason to suspect that the remortgage was anything other than a 
standard transaction, nothing having been mentioned on the application. 
Had the issues with the split titles been highlighted earlier in the application process by Mr 
and Mrs C then I think it is likely that this issue would have been queried sooner. It may have 
been that enquiries could have commenced earlier as to whether Coventry was still prepared 
to lend and on what basis and consideration given to a full valuation once this had been 
determined. As it was, by the time this came to light the country was in lockdown due to 
COVID-19 and surveyors were no longer conducting physical visits to properties so a full 
valuation couldnt be carried out. 
I can see that  once Coventry found out about the split titles  it gave consideration to the 
fact that physical valuations had stopped at this stage. In order to avoid waiting for this it 
offered to lend with a charge registered over both titles, which Mr and Mrs C agreed to. 
Given that it was unclear when full valuations would resume and that waiting would have 
caused further delay, I dont think it was unreasonable of Coventry to proceed with the 
lending based on registering a charge over both parts of the property. I also think that Mr 
and Mrs C would have found proceeding on this basis preferable to waiting given the interest 
they would have had to continue paying on the bridging loan and their objective to complete 
as soon as possible. 
Need for Mr and Mrs C to instruct a new solicitor
It was only once Coventry had made its decision following the title query that it became clear 
that its standard conveyancer wouldnt be able to act. This was due to the fact that the 
remortgage would now involve a charge over land belonging to a company. Coventry says 
that the conveyancers wouldnt have been able to confirm they were unable to act any 
earlier than 11 May as they were waiting for its response to the title query. It also says the 
information about what its conveyancers could do was available on its website and that Mr 
and Mrs C had access to this. 
Whilst a full valuation at this stage may have meant a charge wasnt taken over the land 
belonging to the company and Coventrys appointed conveyancers could have continued to 
act, this would have meant further delay and consequently Mr and Mrs C would have had to 
pay more interest on the bridging loan. So, for the same reasons set out above, I think they 
would have preferred to pay for their own solicitor than wait for a full valuation. It is also 
possible that a full valuation would have made no difference to whether Coventry wanted a 
charge registered against both titles as the valuation wouldnt be the only determining factor 
in this.For the reasons set out above, I dont think Coventry ought to have known about the issue 
with the split titles any earlier than it did as there was no reference to this in the application. 
And as it was this issue which meant that Coventrys conveyancer was unable to act in the 
remortgage, I dont think Coventry has done anything wrong in relation to this aspect. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, but I can't say that 
Coventry has acted unreasonably or unfairly in the circumstances of this case and I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require 
Coventry Building Society to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman