DRN-1769771
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1995 to cover a further advance on a joint mortgage. Mr S and Mrs S say Nationwide 
Building Society mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S said they made it clear they didnt want or need PPI, but it was added 
anyway without their knowledge, so they thought it might be compulsory. However, they also 
said they got the mortgage on a postal application so they didnt speak to anyone at the time 
of the sale. The policy only covered Mr S.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr S and Mrs S disagreed with 
our adjudicators view so the matter has been passed to me to look at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Although the information is limited, I think Nationwide probably made it clear on a 
postal application form that Mr S and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S and Mrs S, so it didnt have to check if 
it was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr S and Mrs S got the information 
they needed to decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr S and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI and they only 
wanted to cover Mr S - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. Based on what 
Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like Mr S was affected by 
any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put them off from taking out the 
cover. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S 
and Mrs S.
 
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S and Mrs S because: Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S and Mrs S about that. Because 
Nationwide didnt tell Mr S and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr S and Mrs S has said - including what they said about their 
savings, sick pay and not knowing the PPI was added to their mortgage account but these 
points dont change my decision. I say this because I think the PPI could still have been of 
benefit to them as it could have paid out for longer than and in addition to Mr Ss sick pay  
which meant they could use their savings for other expenses. And I noted the policy had 
been tailored to cover Mr S only  even though it could have covered Mrs S as well. So I 
think its most likely they chose to have the PPI to cover Mr S. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S and Mrs S.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr S and Mrs S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I 
understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman