DRN-2016274
 
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the poor service he received from the broker, Avantia Insurance 
Limited when he looked to buy a home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T held an existing home insurance policy through Avantia for his residential property. In 
August 2019 Mr T had a separate landlord home insurance policy elsewhere which was due 
for renewal. So Mr T obtained a quote online via a comparison website with Avantia. 
Mr T said he had a query about the quote  and so he discussed it with Avantia. He said an 
agent altered the quote and gave Mr T instructions to use that quote to buy the policy online 
- where he intended to obtain a cashback offer via a third party site. 
Mr T said he couldnt access the quote once it had been changed by Avantias agent and so 
the website suggested he call the business. This is where Mr T says he received poor 
customer service from Avantia. 
After going back and forth in email exchanges, Mr T made a complaint to Avantia. He said it 
had failed to deal with his original query that he couldnt access the quote online in order to 
obtain £75 cashback. Instead, it told him he was entitled to a cashback fee of £40 under his 
existing policy but this hadnt been paid within 90 days as it should have. Mr T said the 
communication from Avantia was confusing and poor. Even though he contacted it two 
weeks before his renewal date, the issue  was still unresolved. 
Mr T said he took out cover elsewhere as Avantia hadnt resolved his query by the renewal 
date.  He wanted Avantia to refund the cashback it owed him from the existing policy and 
compensate him for the inconvenience it had caused him while trying to buy a landlord policy 
through them. 
In October 2019 Avantia asked Mr T to confirm the cost to cancel the alternative policy he 
bought at renewal. It said it would be happy to process one of the quotes hed obtained with 
them. But Mr T said he didnt think it was financially productive due to the difference in 
premium and cancellation fees. He wanted Avantia to instead compensate him for the 
inconvenience it had caused him. 
In November 2019 Avantia apologised for the delay paying Mr T the cashback of £40 owed 
under his existing policy. It credited the amount to his card. It said that the website showed 
Mr T that he was entitled to cashback of £40 and not £75 based on the level of cover Mr T 
had applied for in the quotes. 
Mr T remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought 
Avantia had done enough to put things right. 
Mr T didnt agree. In summary he says it isnt acceptable that Avantia took over a year to pay 
cashback he was entitled to. Avantia failed to deal with a straight forward issue which led to 
Mr Ts time having to clarify and chase Avantia  and ultimately meant he had to look 
elsewhere for another policy as it failed to resolve the issue in a reasonable amount of time. 
He said he would have to obtain details of the cancellation fees, cancel his existing policy 
and rely on Avantia to correctly set up a new policy. He didnt accept Avantias offer as he 
had no confidence that Avantia would do this given his experience - and the risk would be 
that he would be uninsured. 
So Mr T feels he is fairly entitled to compensation for the inconvenience caused by Avantias 
poor service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 June 2020. I thought Mr Ts complaint should be 
upheld. The recommendations I made are set out below.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision is along the same lines as my provisional decision as both parties have 
accepted what Ive said. 
I think its clear from the email exchanges between Mr T and Avantia that his original request 
was misunderstood. He waited over a week for a reply about a new quotation  but received 
a reply about his existing policy. He then had to clarify with Avantia and wait  and chase for 
a reply. He was asked to provide information that was included in emails from Avantia to 
him. Avantia told him he wasnt entitled to cashback as it was a renewal policy  when it was 
for a new separate policy. I think his query - had it been understood on 22 August 2019 
when he emailed them  could have been clarified and resolved within good time before his 
renewal date. 
Avantia paid Mr T cashback of £40 in November 2019  but this was correctly due 90 days 
after the start date of the policy in August 2018. I think there has been an unreasonable 
delay in paying Mr T this sum. So I think a fair outcome is for Avantia to pay interest on the 
£40 from 6 November 2018 (90 days from the policy start date) to the date it paid Mr T. 
I also think that had Avantia dealt with Mr Ts query promptly, it most likely would have 
prevented him from having to shop around elsewhere as the renewal date approached. It 
was clear that Mr T wanted to take out the policy through Avantia and had contacted it as the 
website suggested. But the answers he received caused further confusion and frustration. 
Avantia says that Mr T didnt incur material loss. But we consider compensation should be 
awarded for time, distress, worry or inconvenience which has been caused by a business. 
In this case I think Avantia should pay Mr T compensation for the inconvenience its poor 
service caused him. I appreciate it asked Mr T to confirm the cancellation costs of his 
existing policy. But I can understand why Mr T didnt want to spend more time finding this 
information out and relying on Avantia to correctly set up the policy based on his recent 
experience. 
The offer required Mr T to carry out the administration of finding out the cancellation costs  
and potentially make the arrangements to cancel the policy hed had in place for 
approximately a month.. Putting things right
I think Avantia should pay Mr T £75 compensation for the inconvenience it caused him. I 
think this is reasonable to put things right in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Avantia Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Pay interest on the £40 cashback entitlement from 6 November 2018 to the date it 
paid the cashback in November 2019. 
Pay Mr T £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Avantia Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate 
of 8% a year.
If Avantia Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman