DRN-3187079
The complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited gave him 
misleading information which led him to consult a solicitor and incur costs.
What happened
Mr P and his late wife, Mrs P, each held a life and critical illness policy with Royal London, of
which they were the joint owners.
Sadly, Mrs P was diagnosed with a critical illness which led to a claim under her policy. She
then received a terminal diagnosis.
After a disagreement with Mrs P about the proposals for the distribution of her life insurance,
Mr P contacted Royal London in June 2020 to ask some questions about both of their 
policies. And, from this conversation, he was left with the understanding that Mrs P would be
able to claim the terminal illness benefit of the policy which covered her life, without any
input or confirmation from him and that the money would be paid to her.
This caused Mr P to approach his solicitor about issuing a Freezing Injunction on the Royal
London policy. But Mr P later established that the consent of both policy owners would be
needed for a claim. He complained to Royal London as he felt that hed been given 
misleading information which had meant hed paid £2,239.20 in solicitors costs 
unnecessarily. He asked Royal London to reimburse this to him.
Royal London said that it believed it would be reasonable for Mr P to have contacted its
claims team if he was unsure of any information its adviser had given him before acting on it.
It said the adviser had made it clear in the call that they werent familiar with the claims
process and referred Mr P to the claims team on several occasions. However, it said that the
information Mr P had been given was correct. It said hed chosen to approach a solicitor of
his own volition, so it didnt think it should be held responsible for the costs he had incurred.
The investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said
that he thought Royal Londons adviser couldve been clearer in the call with Mr P and had
given some conflicting information. He said the adviser confirmed that both Mr and Mrs P
would need to sign the claim form but suggested it was the insured person, Mrs P, who
would be paid. He said that the adviser had explained that they wouldnt know for certain
what would happen until the claim stage and said that Mr and Mrs P would need to decide
for themselves what account the money would be paid into.
The investigator said that if Mr P had chosen to provide more information about the issues
between him and his wife during the call, or had spoken to the claims department, then he
thought Royal London could have made things clearer for him. The investigator said that
Royal London should pay Mr P £200 because of this. But he didnt think the information
provided gave Mr P no option but to approach a solicitor and begin legal action.
Royal London didnt accept the investigators findings. It said that it had given Mr P as much
information as it could based upon what hed told the adviser during the call. It said that if
hed explained why he was asking the questions it wouldve given its adviser a clearer
understanding of his position.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. In summary, I said I 
didnt think it should be upheld. 
I listened to the provided recordings of Mr Ps conversations with Royal London about his
and Mrs Ps policies, including the call of 15 June 2020 where Mr P was left with the
understanding that Mrs P would be able to claim the terminal illness benefit of the policy on
her life without his consent. And I did think Royal Londons adviser could have been clearer
in confirming that a claim couldnt be made on the policy without the consent or signatures of
both plan owners, Mr and Mrs P. But I said this was partly with the benefit of hindsight. If 
Mr P himself had been clearer about why he was asking the questions, then I thought this 
would have given the adviser a greater insight into the detail he was looking for.
Having said that, I didnt think the adviser gave Mr P any incorrect information. They referred
him to the claims department on more than one occasion and let him know that they
believed that both signatures would be needed for a claim, but they werent entirely sure
about this. I thought this was very different to saying that Mrs P would be able to make a 
claim without Mr Ps signature. The adviser confirmed their assumption that Mr and Mrs P 
had a joint account, which Mr P said yes to, and then said it would be up to yourselves 
what bank account the money is paid into  implying both of them.
Overall, while I could appreciate that Mr P may have been left somewhat uncertain about the
signatures required for a claim, when considering the content of the conversation in its
entirety, I didnt think it was confirmed to him that Mrs P would be able to make a claim
without his involvement.
I said I appreciated Mr Ps willingness to share the personal information about their 
circumstances at the time. And because of this I could understand why he wouldve been
concerned about the policy proceeds and the future financial position of his family. So I could
see why having knowledge of what may happen with the policy would have been important
to him. But I didnt think it would be fair to require Royal London to pay Mr P compensation 
for the information he was told in that call, as I didnt consider that it acted wrongly or 
incorrectly told him that Mrs P could claim on the policy without his signature or consent.
And I said that, even if I was to conclude that his conversation with Royal London led to him 
believing that Mrs P may receive the policy proceeds without his involvement, I didnt think I 
could say with any certainty that this then caused him to incur the solicitors costs he 
claimed.
This was because the evidence suggested that hed consulted his solicitors about divorce
proceedings around six months earlier. And it was clear from the solicitors invoices that 
Mrs P had also instructed her own solicitors, as there were charges related to the reviewing 
of and responding to letters from them. Much of the solicitors costs seemed to relate to the 
handling of the divorce proceedings. While I could see Mr Ps solicitors letter to Mrs P 
referred to making an application to the Family Court for a Freezing Injunction to preserve 
the money from her life insurance with Royal London, this also referred to her death-in-
service benefit from her work pension. This read to be because of a disagreement between 
them about how the proceeds should be distributed.Also, in an email dated 28 July 2020, Royal London confirmed to Mr P that they were joint
plan owners and this means that any successful claim could only be paid to the bank
account details agreed by both plan owners. We would also have to complete our anti- 
money laundering ID checks for both plans owners before any funds could be paid.
However, Mr Ps solicitors invoice indicated that further work was carried out after Mr P
would have received this confirmation.
Overall, I thought it would be difficult to apportion any costs for the solicitors work 
specifically to any mis-understanding of the claim procedures for the Royal London policy, 
when it seemed the work undertaken related to the actions involved in progressing the 
divorce proceedings, and the separation of the finances and jointly held assets.
The responses
Royal London responded to say that it had received my provisional decision but didnt add 
any additional comments for my consideration.
Mr P confirmed that he received my provisional decision but had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Royal London nor Mr P have provided any further comments for my consideration 
in response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the findings that I 
reached. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman