DRN-3289853
The complaint
Miss N complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost, after she fell victim 
to a scam.
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, in May 2021, Miss N was looking to purchase a phone and saw one 
advertised on a social media platform, that she thought was suitable.
Miss N messaged the seller to ask if the phone was still available and, after the seller 
confirmed it was available, she told them that she would like to buy the phone. Miss N told 
the seller she would be happy to pick the item up in person, but the seller responded saying 
that it was delivery only.
Miss N went ahead and made a payment for £123, to the account details the seller provided, 
through her mobile banking. But unknown to her at the time, the seller was in fact a 
scammer. When Miss N didnt receive the phone, she contacted Monzo to report the 
incident.
Monzo tried to recover the funds that Miss N had paid. The beneficiary account was also 
held with Monzo, but by the time Miss N reported the matter to Monzo the funds had already 
left the account and no funds remained.
Monzo is not a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code) but has agreed to adhere to it. This means Monzo has made a 
commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of authorised push payment scams 
except in limited circumstances. Monzo considered Miss Ns complaint under the CRM Code 
and issued its final response on 30 May 2021, not upholding her complaint. In summary, it 
says Miss N didnt take enough steps to check who or what she was paying for.
Miss N didnt agree with Monzos findings and so brought her complaint to our service. In 
summary, while she understood she should have asked more questions, she said by nature 
you pay for the item you want before you receive the item. She added that the fraudsters 
account was also with Monzo  and it was not for her, as a buyer, to search for background 
information on all sellers online and she didnt think Monzo had followed its policy on 
customer service around money laundering, tax evasion and fraud.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
In summary, she said this because she didnt consider Miss N had met her requisite level of 
care under the CRM code when making the payment. She didnt think Miss N had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment was for a genuine phone or that the person she 
transacted with was legitimate. Our investigator thought the price of the phone seemed too 
good to be true and there were other red flags that ought to have alerted Miss N  such as 
the seller having no seller rating, the seller account having only been set up recently and the 
seller only agreeing to deliver the phone, when Miss N had said she would collect it.
Miss N didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that while she understood that 
Monzo couldnt refund all customers due to business purposes and making a profit. She 
simply wanted the person who lied and took her money to give it back, and since they were 
also a Monzo customer, she thinks it has broken the code.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Miss N has raised some points about Monzo in its capacity as the receiving 
bank. But I should point out that my decision here solely focuses on the complaint about 
Monzo in its capacity as the bank from which the funds were sent. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss N, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about Monzos actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave 
Miss Ns account. I also dont think it could have done any more to try and recover the 
money she sadly lost. So, while I know it will be disappointing for Miss N, having considered 
everything Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable 
in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo should have reimbursed Miss N in line with the 
provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to, and whether it ought to have done 
more to protect Miss N from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The circumstances where a firm may not choose to reimburse are limited and it is for the firm 
to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care, as set out in the Code. 
One such circumstance might be when it can be demonstrated that the customer made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
Monzo has argued that Miss N didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the payment she 
was making was for genuine goods or services. 
Ive thought carefully about whether exception(s) to reimbursement applies in Miss Ns case. 
And, on balance, I dont think she has made the payments whilst having a reasonable basis 
for belief that all was genuine. Ill explain why. Its not clear whether the phone being advertised was new or used. But either way, the price 
of the particular model of phone being advertised, seems to be well below what the market 
value appears to be for a phone that was either used or new. From what Ive seen the 
market value, for the make and model of phone advertised, is somewhere over £500 for a 
used phone and over £800 for a new phone. I dont doubt the offer would have appeared 
enticing, considering how cheap it was in comparison to what one might typically have 
expected to pay for that model, but price can be one indicator that there is potentially 
something untoward about the seller or the proposed deal. And in this case, I consider Miss 
N should have been concerned.
Im also persuaded that there were other factors, in the particular circumstances of this case, 
that ought to have caused Miss N to reasonably have had some doubts about what was 
being offered. I say that as the social media account had only been very recently set up and 
it showed that the seller had no seller ratings. Alongside this the seller wouldnt allow Miss N 
to go and collect the item, when she offered to.
When I consider all of these things in the round, Im not persuaded Miss N should have 
accepted that things were as they were being presented to her. I think its reasonable to 
have expected Miss N to question the plausibility of what was being offered and Im mindful 
Miss N herself has acknowledged that she should have asked more questions.  
In the circumstances, I dont consider Miss N had a reasonable basis for believing she was 
buying a genuine phone and/or the seller of it was legitimate. I believe she could and should 
have made further enquiries before making the payment. 
All things considered, I dont think Miss N had a reasonable basis for believing the payment 
she was making was for genuine goods or services and Im persuaded this was sufficient 
reason for Monzo to fairly decline to reimburse her under the CRM Code. 
Is there any other reason Monzo ought to refund Miss N?
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Miss N from financial harm. The 
CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. The CRM Code also says that the assessment of whether a 
firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of whether compliance with that 
standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam. 
I am also mindful that when Miss N made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
Having looked at Miss Ns statements for the months leading up to the scam, Im not 
persuaded the payment she made to the fraudster, for £123, was so remarkable that Monzo 
ought fairly and reasonably to have believed there was a scam risk. The amount wasnt 
particularly large or unusual, when comparing it to Miss Ns typical account activity. And nor 
were there other concerning features  in terms of the payment  to put Monzo on notice. 
And so, I dont believe Monzo needed to do more than it did, in terms of providing warnings 
about making payments. 
Finally, Ive considered whether Monzo did all it could to try and recover the money Miss N 
lost, once she had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, the funds had left 
the beneficiary account before Miss N reported the scam. So, there was nothing Monzo 
could do to recover the money that Miss N had lost. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman