DRN-1665087
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the valuation of his motorhome by the Society of Lloyds (SOL). 
What happened
Mr B bought a van and worked on it for about a year to convert it into a motorhome. When 
hed finished converting it, he informed DVLA who certified it as a motor caravan, and he 
rang his insurance brokers to inform them. The schedule value wasnt updated at this stage 
and remained at £3,200, which was the pre-converted value of the van.
Shortly after this, Mr B was involved in a road traffic accident which resulted in severe 
damage to his motorhome. The motorhome was taken to a salvage yard as it was expected 
to be a write-off. After a few weeks, an engineer valued the motorhome at £6,000. SOL 
looked at some adverts for similar vehicles (including those provided to them by Mr B) and 
offered Mr B £7,000.
Mr B wasnt happy with SOLs valuation. His view was that the cost of replacing his 
motorhome was around £11,500 and he said that should be the valuation. 
As a result of Mr Bs complaint, SOL asked a second engineer for his opinion on the 
valuation of the motorhome. The second engineer valued it at £5,400. He said that if it had 
been a professionally converted and fully finished motorhome it would have a significantly 
higher value, but not above £8,500.
SOL didnt increase their offer after this second engineers report, and Mr B remained 
unhappy so he complained to our service. He also complained about delays in SOLs 
handling of his claim.
Mr Bs complaint centres on the wording of the policy which defines market value as the 
cost of replacing your motorhome with another one of the same make, model and 
specification and of similar age, mileage and condition at the time of an accident or loss. 
Mr B is complaining that SOL are estimating the sales value of his vehicle rather than what it 
would cost to replace it  which he says are two different things. 
Our investigators view was that SOL had undervalued Mr Bs vehicle. She said they 
appeared to have based their valuation on a short wheel base (SWB) vehicle and that Mr Bs 
van was a long wheel base (LWB) which increased the value of it. She felt that £8,000 would 
be a more appropriate valuation and asked SOL to increase their valuation. But she said she 
thought theyd handled his claim fairly and she didnt think there were any unreasonable 
delays.
Mr B agreed to accept £8,000 though he wasnt particularly happy with this outcome. But 
SOL said they didnt think the increased valuation was justified. They said theyd had 
valuations from two independent engineers and they couldnt agree with the investigators 
view. They asked for an ombudsman to look at the case and so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This isnt a straightforward case for a number of reasons. But Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint in part and agree with our investigator that £8,000 would be a fairer valuation for 
Mr Bs vehicle. Ill explain why  covering first the policy terms and valuation, and then the 
case handling.
Policy terms and valuation
Like most motor insurance policies, Mr Bs policy says that SOL will pay either the market 
value of the vehicle, or the cost of repairs  whichever is lower. The policy wording also 
limits the payment to the value shown on the schedule. But SOL agreed to waive that limit in 
this case as it wasnt updated when Mr B informed them that hed finished the conversion  
they agreed theyd pay market value.
The policy wording defines market value as: the cost of replacing your motorhome with 
another one of the same make, model and specification and of similar age, mileage and 
condition at the time of an accident or loss.
I can see that SOL has explained to Mr B that this wording effectively means the amount 
theyd expect Mr Bs vehicle would have sold for immediately before the accident. But Mr B 
disagrees  he says the market value should represent how much it will cost him to replace 
the motorhome. 
SOLs interpretation of the wording is common practice in these situations  and it works well 
with vehicles that are easy to replace in the secondhand market. But I dont think thats the 
case with Mr Bs vehicle.
In converting the van himself, Mr B built it exactly as he wanted it. And its unlikely that other 
people would be willing to pay the premium Mr B paid for certain aspects of the conversion. 
For example, its clear that the LWB is very important to Mr B but a lifting roof is not  
whereas another consumer may have a strong preference for a lifting roof but place little 
importance on the overall length of the vehicle.
I think its reasonable that Mr Bs reading of the policy was that he would be able to replace 
his vehicle with something very similar if it were to be written off. And I can see thats likely to 
cost more than he would have earned from selling his van.
But I can understand why its so difficult to decide how much that replacement would cost. I 
can see Mr Bs vehicle was unique in the way that it had been converted  and I can see that 
there are few motorhomes of the same make and model on the market. Once age, mileage, 
and the style of conversion are taken into account, I can understand why Mr B and SOL 
were unable to agree on examples of direct replacements.
I can see Mr B has suggested a valuation of £11,500. But I dont think thats reasonable. 
Thats because:
Mr B has kept no record of the amounts he spent on his conversion, or the time it 
took him. Hes estimated £12,000 parts and labour but not been able to provide any 
breakdown or evidence of this.
The estimate provided by a professional converter is not itemised or specific to the 
way Mr Bs van was converted so I dont find it persuasive. The estimate is for a professional rather than an amateur conversion so would 
provide Mr B with a better vehicle and higher quality finish than the original vehicle. I 
cant ask SOL to put Mr B into a better position than he was in before the accident.
Its really unfortunate that SOL didnt update the value listed on the policy schedule when 
Mr B told them hed finished converting it. If theyd discussed the value at the time, Mr B 
would have had the opportunity to obtain his own professional valuation of the vehicle and 
might not have found himself in the position of being asked to prove the value of a vehicle 
which has been severely damaged in an accident and ransacked at the salvage yard.  
I also have some concerns about SOLs valuation and those provided by the engineers. Ill 
explain why.
SOL says they have valued Mr Bs motorhome by looking at other vehicles in the market. 
They say they arrived at an average value of £7,000 before the independent engineers 
looked at the motorhome. And when the engineers both reported lower values they decided 
to stick with their original valuation of £7,000 to try to be fair to Mr B.
But I can see Mr Bs disputed the adverts SOL used. In particular SOL provided an advert for 
an amateur conversion of a van of the same make, model and mileage as Mr Bs, advertised 
at £6,995. Mr B said that this was a SWB van with a lower spec than his own and an inferior 
conversion. He said the advert wasnt appropriate and that his vehicle was significantly 
better. 
SOLs first engineers report doesnt explain how he arrived at the market value of £6,000. 
The focus of the report is on the damage and the cost of repairing that damage. 
SOLs second engineer provided more detail than the first. Hes reviewed examples of 
vehicles in the market which he considers to be similar and then discounted the sales price 
of those vehicles to take into account his observations of Mr Bs vehicle  namely the high 
mileage, the amateur rather than professional fit and finish, and his observation that Mr Bs 
vehicle wasnt finished. 
The photos Ive seen from before the accident suggest to me that the conversion was 
finished. And Mr B has said it was finished, and informed SOL and the DVLA of that. So, its 
unclear why the engineer said it wasnt finished  its possible that this is because Mr Bs van 
was ransacked in the salvage yard before he carried out his valuation  his photos show 
belongings piled everywhere, sheets stripped off, and cables stripped out. So Im not happy 
that the engineers valuation is based on his opinion that it wasnt a finished conversion.
Ive looked at the vehicles the second engineer has provided as examples of comparable 
vehicles in the market. However, many of these dont appear to have any kitchen or living 
facilities. And although two of the vehicles are the same model as Mr Bs van, they have a 
smaller engine size and appear to be SWB vans rather than LWB. So, I cant say these are 
comparable vehicles.
Fundamentally though, SOL and its engineers have valued the campervan at the amount 
they expect Mr B would have received if hed sold it immediately prior to the accident. As 
explained above  Im not satisfied thats the right approach. 
So Ive come to the conclusion that £11,500 is too high and £7,000 is too low. Which leaves 
the question of what a fair value is. Im satisfied with our investigators suggestion of £8,000. 
It reflects the discrepancies between the vehicles on which have based their valuation and 
Mr Bs vehicle. Given everything Ive seen Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable valuation 
which takes into account the unique nature of Mr Bs vehicle. 
Claim handlingI can see Mr B also complained about the length of time it had taken SOL to deal with his 
claim. I can see he was frustrated by not receiving regular updates or acknowledgment of his 
emails. 
Our investigators view was that SOLs management of Mr Bs claim was reasonable given 
the complex nature of the matter. Neither party commented further on the matter. Ive 
reviewed the timelines and I ve come to the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, Im asking SOL to increase their valuation to £8,000 and to pay 
Mr B an additional £1,000. 
I can see Mr Bs commented that the whole process has caused him some stress and I can 
imagine how time-consuming its been for him  but Im not asking SOL to pay any additional 
compensation for this given the subjective nature of the valuation. Its for the same reason 
Im not asking them to pay interest on the additional £1,000.
My final decision
As explained above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and to ask the Society of 
Lloyds to pay an additional £1,000 to Mr B to reflect an increase in the valuation of his 
vehicle.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman