DRN-2958235
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has not treated them fairly in respect 
of a travel insurance policy they purchased.
What happened
On the 4 January 2020 Mr and Mrs R purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy 
underwritten by Great Lakes. The policy was valid for the period 19 March 2020 to 18 March 
2021. 
Mr and Mrs R paid a total premium of £773.57. This included cover for a number of pre-
existing medical conditions, and three optional cover extensions. Of these optional cover 
extensions, two  Travel Disruption and Cruise Plus cover, were underwritten by Great 
Lakes. The third, Terrorism Cancellation cover, was underwritten by a third-party insurer.   
Mr and Mrs R have explained that they had holidays booked for March and April 2020, but 
both were cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic and they received full refunds from the 
travel company.
On 1st May 2020 Mr and Mrs R contacted Great Lakes to discuss their travel insurance 
policy. 
Great Lakes said that it could not refund the premium they had paid for the policy as they 
were outside of the 14-day cooling off period. Mr and Mrs R complained. And Great Lakes 
ultimately offered them a pro rata credit of £525.44, calculated based on the premium they 
had paid for their basic policy and pre-existing medical conditions, but excluding the optional 
cover extensions theyd purchased. It said this voucher had to be used immediately for one 
of the following options:
An opportunity to receive a pro rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual policy 
for the price 12, at the current market rates
Or the opportunity to receive a pro rata credit towards buying a deferred annual policy. 
This will be a 12-month policy, at the current market rates. You can then choose to start 
the cover at any time within 12 months of purchasing the policy
Or, we now offer UK only annual multi trip policies, where there is a potential to upgrade 
the destination area at a later date **subject to Terms and Conditions**'
Mr and Mrs R werent satisfied with this offer, so they bought their complaint to our service. 
They didnt feel it was fair that Great Lakes had only offered to refund two thirds of the 
amount they had paid for the policy. Or that the pro rata credit voucher had to be used 
immediately when travel restrictions were still in place and they were not yet ready to travel 
again. They were also disappointed to find out that they would be charged a higher premium 
should they take out a new policy. Theyve told us that they did not want to cancel their 
insurance, rather to be able to restart the policy when they were ready to travel again as Mrs 
R is classed as vulnerable to Covid-19.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 19 March 2020 and the policy covered 
various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
would be for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs R with a pro-rata refund of the premium 
they paid for their policy from 1 May 2020, when they contacted Great Lakes. 
The investigator said this refund calculation should include the premiums Mr and Mrs R had 
paid for the optional Cruise Plus cover and Travel Disruption extensions. And should be 
adjusted to fairly reflect the discount applied to the policy at the point of sale. The 
investigator also felt that it was reasonable for Great Lakes to offer this refund in the form of 
a credit voucher, as the terms it had put forward were not unreasonably restrictive.
The investigator also explained that Great Lakes was not responsible for the Terrorism 
Cancellation cover extension Mr and Mrs R had purchased as this was underwritten by a 
different insurer. The investigator explained that our service could not consider this cover 
extension as part of this complaint. But that the third-party insurer had offered Mr and Mrs R 
a pro rata cash refund for the part of their premium which had been for this cover extension, 
to be calculated from 1 May 2020. And Mr and Mrs R could let us know if they wished to 
accept this offer.
Great Lakes agreed to issue Mr and Mrs R with a refund calculated on this basis. But Mr and 
Mrs R didnt accept our investigators recommendations. They are not happy to accept a 
voucher with the terms on offer from Great Lakes as they are not yet ready to travel abroad 
again, and so would like a monetary refund.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel the policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later.
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Im upholding this complaint to the extent that I think Great Lakes should calculate Mr and 
Mrs Rs refund voucher as per our investigators recommendation. That is, by dividing the 
actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on 
risk - so as to fairly reflect the discount applied at the point of sale. It should include the 
premium they paid for the optional Cruise Plus cover and Travel Disruption extensions within 
this calculation.
But I dont think Great Lakes needs to do anything further to put things right. I say this 
because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that no premium will be 
refunded where a policy is cancelled outside of the cooling off period, though Great 
Lakes may use its discretion in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a 
change in cover for medical conditions. The examples of exceptional circumstances 
given clearly relate to very individual circumstances. As such I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect Great Lakes to use the discretion referred to here in this 
situation. The Covid-19 pandemic has affected the travel plans of a great many 
people. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case I think the insurers revised offer of a pro rata 
refund calculated from 1 May 2020 and using the method set out by our investigator 
is fair. I appreciate Mr and Mrs R did not make a claim under their policy, and 
government restrictions on travel came into force shortly before the policy period 
started.  However prior to 1 May 2020 when Mr and Mrs R contacted Great Lakes 
and let it know they had not travelled, Great Lakes was still bearing the risk that they 
may have taken a trip, or had to cancel a trip they had planned during the period of 
insurance, due an event insured by the policy  for example illness or injury. And it is 
fair that it should retain some premium for this.
Mr and Mrs R have explained that rather than ask Great Lakes to cancel their policy 
in May 2020, they were effectively looking to pause it, and restart cover when they 
were ready to travel again. Theyve told us that they would like a monetary refund as 
they dont feel they would use Great Lakes services again after the experience they 
have had in regard to this complaint. Theyve also said that theyve been quoted a 
higher price for a new policy going forward. I accept that prices might increase. And of course Mr and Mrs R are free to choose 
whether to use Great Lakes services again or not. But I also have to bear in mind 
that Mr and Mrs R voluntarily entered into a contract with Great Lakes whereby they 
paid a premium for it to provide them with travel insurance cover for the period 19 
March 2020 to 18 March 2021. There is no provision in the policy which allows for 
these dates to be changed once cover has started. And the voucher theyve been 
offered represents the unused days of cover after 1 May 2020 when they let Great 
Lakes know that their holidays had been cancelled and they did not wish to travel at 
the current time. This means the risk Great Lakes accepted at their request is 
effectively moved to a future date. I am therefore satisfied that a voucher is a fair 
alternative to a monetary refund. 
I do not think the terms of the voucher offered by Great Lakes are unreasonably 
restrictive. I appreciate that some travel restrictions are still in place and there is a 
degree of uncertainty around the Covid-19 pandemic. But the voucher can be used 
for several different options  including to purchase a policy and defer its start date 
for up to 12 months. Or for U.K. based trips.
 
Putting things right
 Great Lakes should calculate the value of Mr and Mrs Rs voucher on the following basis;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for their annual multi-trip insurance policy 
calculated from 1 May 2020. This is to be calculated by dividing the actual price paid 
for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk.
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional Cruise Plus and Travel 
Disruption extensions to be calculated as above. 
Mr and Mrs R should also let our investigator know if they would like to accept the third-party 
insurers offer of a pro rata monetary refund for their optional Terrorism Cancellation cover 
extension.
 
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint to the extent that Ive outlined above. I direct Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman