DRN-3246023
The complaint
Mr B and Ms G say Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited treated them unfairly in relation to 
a claim they made on their home emergency insurance policy.
All references in this decision to Admiral include its appointed administrative agents.
What happened
Mr B and Ms G had home emergency cover alongside their home insurance policy. They 
called Admiral to report a leak in their downstairs toilet. Admiral sent out a plumber to 
investigate and they stopped the leak. The plumber didnt have the parts to get the toilet 
working again and left without repairing it. 
Mr B and Ms G werent happy that Admiral hadnt fixed the toilet and complained. They said 
that, although they had a second toilet they could use, this was a problem for Ms G because 
she was pregnant and found it difficult to walk up and down the stairs to get to it. Mr B said it 
was also a problem for him because he suffered with arthritis. They say they eventually paid 
a third-party £90 to fix the problem and wanted Admiral to reimburse them.
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. It said the policy Mr B and Ms G bought only covered 
emergencies and temporary repairs. It said the plumbers report indicated the toilet required 
a maintenance or permanent repair  that is, not a temporary repair as provided for by the 
policy  and that Mr B and Ms G would need to pay for the cost of that. Admiral didnt believe 
the policy had been mis-sold. 
Unhappy with Admirals response, Mr B and Ms G complained to us. Our investigator 
considered their complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They thought 
Admiral had dealt with the claim in line with the scope of the policy as set out in the terms 
and conditions. 
Mr B and Ms G didnt agree with the investigators findings. They said after they arranged for 
their own plumber to repair the toilet, Admiral called them about installing the parts needed 
to get it working again. They said Admiral agreed to reimburse the cost of the repair if Mr B 
and Ms G could provide an invoice as proof. They couldnt provide an invoice as they paid 
the third-party with cash. Mr B and Ms G said the cost of the parts required was minimal and 
that Admiral should have carried out the work.
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point for me is to consider the policy terms, and especially those Admiral has 
relied on, to determine whether it acted fairly. I wont quote all the relevant terms, as theyve 
been set out to Mr B and Ms G at least once. Suffice it to say, however, that the policy 
explained Admiral would cover home emergencies  sudden and unforeseen incidents 
immediately, for example, making a home unfit to be lived in, putting health at risk or 
creating a risk of loss or damage to a home or its contents  and arrange and pay for a 
temporary repair to be carried out up to £500 per claim.
Temporary repair was defined as:
Work or repairs needed immediately to stop further damage being caused by the 
emergency. You may need to arrange further work or repairs, at your own cost, to 
permanently fix the issue.
The terms went on to say that the cover included items such as toilet flushing mechanisms 
and leaks from toilets.
From experience, these policy terms are typical of those that tend to be found in policies 
such as these and arent usual in any way. 
Im satisfied in this case that the emergency was the leak, not that the toilet couldnt be used. 
It was the leak that had the potential, for example, to cause damage to Mr B and Ms Gs 
home or contents. Its not in dispute that Admirals plumber did in fact stop the leak. 
I gather the plumber was willing to go further than the policy terms required and attempt to 
repair the toilet itself, possibly because of the nature of the required repairs, but that they 
didnt have the necessary parts with them. That doesnt, however, mean that Admiral was 
required to go on and repair the toilet under the policy terms. Nor does it mean that Admiral 
must reimburse Mr B and Ms G for the repair they arranged by a third-party. 
As the terms of the policy set out, the insured may need to arrange further work or repairs at 
their own cost once the work needed to stop further damage had been completed. I believe 
Admirals plumber carried out the work required to stop further damage. 
I realise Mr B and Ms G say that Admiral told them it would reimburse them for the cost of 
the repair if they could provide an invoice as proof. But Ive not seen or heard any evidence 
in support of that. In one call with Admiral, Mr B was advised he need not delay arranging for 
the toilet to be fixed while Admiral looked into his complaint, but it was made clear that, in 
the meantime, Admiral still needed to reach a decision as to whether it could reimburse 
those costs. Even if I was satisfied Admiral had told them it would reimburse (which Im not), 
Mr B and Ms G accept they cant provide an invoice for the repair. So, Admiral would have 
no way of confirming who was paid, what they were paid for or how much they were paid.
Im sorry to hear that being left without the use of one of their two toilets left Mr B and Ms G 
in difficulty, especially given their situation at the time (although they dont consider 
themselves to be disabled). But for the reasons explained, I cant reasonably say that 
Admiral dealt with their claim, or otherwise treated them, unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman