DRN-1705805
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store 
card in 1997. Mrs N says AXA France IARD mis-sold her the PPI.
Mrs N took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but AXA has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to AXA in my decision.
background
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint but didnt think that the PPI had been mis-sold. 
Mrs N disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Ns store card application, and I can see that the PPI is 
presented as an optional product and has been selected. Mrs N has then signed the 
application, agreeing to the information on it
Mrs N says that at the time she took out the store card she was young and nave  and she 
didnt know what she was taking out  she says if she had known then she wouldnt have 
taken out the policy. She also says that the sales assistant filled out the application for her.
But even if the sales assistant did complete the application, Mrs N was entering in to a 
financial agreement, and it was her responsibility to make sure she understood what she 
was signing for. And I think that AXA made it clear that there was a choice in taking out PPI, 
and that Mrs N chose to do so.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs N, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs N got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. And although it was more expensive than some other 
policies, it also provided a higher than usual level of benefits should she have needed to 
make a claim. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs N has said, including what shes said about receiving a 
PPI refund for a different store card taken out with the same retail business. But I cant 
comment on why this may have been  Im only looking at this complaint. So, this point 
doesnt change my decision. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was 
mis-sold.
other considerations
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how lenders should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure 
of commission where PPI was sold. 
But AXA France IARD wasnt Mrs Ns lender. So, I dont think these rules apply. 
As our adjudicator explained, the FCA set a deadline for new PPI complaints  including 
those about commission. The deadline was 29 August 2019. So, although Mrs N may 
approach her lender to make a complaint about commission if she hasnt already done so, 
its likely her lender will say that the complaint was made too late. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman