DRN-3810577
The complaint
Miss C has complained about her pet insurer, Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd (CGIC), after it turned down a claim she made on the policy she has for her 
dog. 
CGIC is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Throughout the claim Miss C was 
dealing with a different company who acts as CGICs agent. As CGIC has accepted it is 
accountable for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to CGIC includes the 
actions of the agent.
What happened
Miss C took out a policy for her dog, T, which started on 5 October 2020. The policy 
renewed the following year.
Miss C made a claim under the policy after T had a right knee operation due to a dislocating 
right kneecap in April 2022. CGIC turned the claim down because it said it related to a 
pre-existing condition and was therefore excluded under the policy.
 
CGIC said that T had left leg lameness in October 2020  within the initial 14 days of the 
policy starting. It said if it had been made aware of this condition at the time, it would have 
added an endorsement on the policy which would have excluded related conditions. And as 
it thought the cause of the right knee operation related to the October 2020 lameness 
incident it decided to reject the claim. 
Miss C was unhappy with CGICs response and complained to us in July 2022. She said the 
charity she had adopted T from said that he did not have a related pre-existing condition. 
She added that the vet also said that the April 2022 operation was not related to the 
October 2020 lameness incident. She said when she pointed out to CGIC that the two 
incidents did not relate to the same leg it told her that it considered this to be a bilateral 
condition meaning the two incidents were linked and therefore excluded. Miss C asked to 
be reimbursed for the costs she incurred for Ts treatment.
 
CGIC responded to Miss Cs complaint in October 2022 but it maintained its decision to 
reject the complaint. It said that Miss C failed to disclose the pre-existing condition for the 
dislocating kneecap when she took the policy out even though this was discussed with her 
vet at the consultation in October 2020. It said if it had been made aware it would have 
added an endorsement on the policy which excluded cover on all claims with respect to 
luxating patellas (dislocating kneecaps) and any associated conditions from the start of the 
policy.
Our Investigator who reviewed the complaint thought it should be upheld. He thought that 
CGIC had not interpreted the vets notes correctly and that it hadnt considered all the notes 
when making its decision. He also didnt think it had applied the bilateral term fairly and he 
did not consider the luxating patella to have been a bilateral condition. He noted that T did 
not have any further issues with his left leg after the October 2020 examination. He added 
that the vet had found no underlying issues at the time and that the charity that Miss C had 
adopted T from also didnt note any underlying issues. He asked CGIC to reimburse Miss C 
for the cost of the treatment and add 8% simple interest per year. He added that it should 
also pay Miss C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
CGIC didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It repeated that the vets notes 
stated that the symptoms of the luxating patella started in October 2020. It also said that T 
had been on painkillers for a long time; having been prescribed them in October and 
November 2020 and also in March and May 2021 as well as January and May 2022. It 
acknowledged that the initial diagnosis may have related to the left leg and not the right one 
but said that the lameness had been ongoing since October 2020.
Our Investigator responded to say that the vet did not note a luxating patella in October 2020 
and T had not been back to the vet in relation to his left leg which would mean the cause of 
the lameness wasnt a luxating patella. He also pointed out that the painkiller prescribed in 
March 2021 was in relation to the right leg.
Before I issued my decision our Investigator wrote to CGIC to point out that Miss Cs vet 
wrote to it in July 2022 to say that the issue with Ts left hind leg in October 2020 did not 
relate to the subsequent luxating patella diagnosis. As such his view remained the same. 
CGIC responded to say that T was prescribed pain relief between both episodes of 
lameness and, therefore, this may have masked any symptoms of lameness in the right hind 
leg. It added that it disagreed with the vet who said it was impossible to link the two episodes 
together due to a time period of two years between them because there was only a period of 
about five months between the October 2020 and the March 2021 visit. CGIC also said that 
the July 2022 letter our Investigator referred to was not written by the treating vet. 
I responded to say that the vets notes do not specify why pain relief was prescribed in 
November 2020 and that in the absence of evidence in support, including any mention of 
pain in the right hind leg prior to March 2021, I was unlikely to find that, on balance, the pain 
relief prescribed in November 2020 may have masked symptoms of lameness in the right 
hind leg. I added that it was not my understanding that the vet said that the two conditions 
were not linked due to there being a period of two years between them but because they 
related to different legs. I also said that the vet mentioned that the lameness in the left leg 
was mild and treated with pain relief whereas the lameness in the right leg was far worse 
and required an operation. The vet also said that the left leg lameness was of an unknown 
cause and impossible to link it to the right leg lameness without diagnostic imaging/surgical 
exploration. Finally, I said that the vet who wrote the July 2022 letter was the vet who 
diagnosed the luxating patella on the right hind leg in October 2021. 
CGIC responded to say that the painkiller prescribed in October and November 2020 were 
likely for the same episode of lameness as there are no other clinical notes to state why T 
needed further painkillers. It also said this is further supported by the fact that the 
manufacturer of the specific medication says that a 32ml bottle would last 24 days for a dog 
of Ts size. It repeated that this claim should be excluded as it relates to a bilateral 
condition.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it.
The policyLike most pet insurance policies, this one excludes claims relating to conditions that existed 
before the commencement of the policy and also events that happened early in the cover 
period  within the initial 14 days or first five days in relation to accidental injuries.
 
Under the veterinary fees section the policy says it covers treatment carried out by a vet for 
treating an illness whilst the pet is insured with CGIC. Treatment includes consultation, 
examination, advice, tests, x-rays, slides, ultrasound, MRI scans, medication and surgery 
provided by the vet. The benefit limit under this section is £4,000 and the excess is £90.
The policy also enables the consumer to claim per condition up to the benefit limit in each 
and every policy period of insurance. At each renewal the benefit limit for each condition 
renews. Condition is defined as an illness or accidental injury or any symptoms or clinical 
signs of an illness or accidental injury affecting your pet. It defines illness as  any 
disease, sickness, infection or any change to your pets normal healthy state, which is not 
caused by an accidental injury.
The policy also defines bilateral condition as any condition that can affect body parts of 
which the pet has two, on either side of its body such as knees and kneecaps and which can 
occur at different times. The policy also says that when applying the benefit limit and the 
terms of the policy any treatment for bilateral conditions will be considered as one condition 
whenever the treatment may have occurred. I think this term is fairly clear but this doesnt 
necessarily mean that I think its fair for CGIC to apply it in these particular circumstances. 
I will go into that in more detail below.
 
The claim
T was diagnosed with a luxating patella on the right hind leg in October 2021. From the 
vets notes it appears that the first signs of limping in the right hind leg were noted in 
March 2021. At that point the vet prescribed painkillers and rest. Occasional limping was 
again noted in August 2021 when T was having his vaccinations and the vet added a 
comment in the notes which said back right- luxating patella?. An x-ray was carried out in 
October 2021 and visible changes were noted to the kneecap and shinbone and the 
possibility of an operation was discussed. This was followed by a diagnosis of a luxating 
patella in the same month and it was noted that T was not able to bare any weight on his 
right hind leg. He was described as almost carrying his leg. The operation did not take place 
until April 2022 due to other, unrelated, concerns which the vet wanted to bring under control 
first.
In the notes I have also seen that T was examined by the vet a year before his right hind leg 
diagnosis  in October 2020  and the vet noted a lame left back leg and prescribed a 
painkiller and some rest. The vet noted that if there was no improvement, they would 
recommend x-rays. I cant see any other note in relation to the left leg since or any mention 
of T going back to the vet for the same reason. 
 
CGIC said that T never recovered from the lameness which started in October 2020. It said 
that this is supported by the fact that he had been prescribed painkillers for a long time and 
that this may have masked symptoms of lameness in the right leg. I am not sure I agree with 
this and as I said to CGIC already in the absence of any evidence such as any mention of 
pain/lameness to the right leg prior to March 2021, I think it is unlikely that this was the case. 
T was prescribed painkillers in October and November 2020 and then intermittently from 
March 2021 onwards. But in October 2020 (and possibly in November 2020; though the vets 
notes dont specify this so it may well be for another reason) the painkiller was prescribed for 
his left hind leg and from March 2021 onwards it was in relation to the right hind leg. So, on 
balance, I dont think the painkillers were all prescribed to treat the same injury. And, as 
I already said, without any mention of pain to the right leg prior to March 2021, I think it is, on balance, unlikely that this condition was already there but masked by the painkillers T was 
already taking.
CGIC says that the lameness noted in October 2020 (which was within the initial 14 days of 
the policy being taken out) was the same condition (a bilateral condition) as the condition 
which caused the operation in April 2022. It said that Miss C had discussed a dislocating 
patella with the vet at the October 2020 consultation but having seen the vets notes 
I havent noted that there was any mention of a luxating patella at the time. So I dont think 
CGIC is correct in saying this.
 
Furthermore, Miss Cs vet wrote to CGIC after it turned the claim down and said that the 
lameness noted in October 2020 (the vet said October 2022 but as the letter was dated 
July 2022, Im satisfied she meant October 2020) to the left hind limb resolved after a short 
course of pain relief. She added that there was no mention of a luxating patella on 
examination. She also said that there would have been a number of orthopaedic injuries that 
could have caused the lameness and it appeared to be mild and responsive to a moderate 
strength pain relief. The vet also said the April 2022 operation was performed on the right 
hind limb. She said the lameness had not resolved with pain relief and surgical correction 
was performed as a result. She concluded that the lameness was far worse in severity to the 
lameness of an unknown cause in 2020. She added that it was impossible to state that the 
left hind limb lameness noted two years before was the same lameness seen in the opposite 
limb two years later without diagnostic imaging or surgical exploration. 
Miss C also wrote to the charity where she adopted T from. She said T was three years old 
when she adopted him in 2020. The charity wrote back and said that their vets did not note a 
luxating patella in Ts records; despite this being a condition often recorded on dogs 
records; nor did Miss Cs own vet note this on first inspection. 
Bearing in mind the above and in the absence of any conflicting veterinary evidence I think 
that the lameness noted in October 2020 and the luxating patella diagnosed in October 2021 
are not the same condition. And for this reason, I dont think CGIC can rely on its 
pre-existing conditions exclusion to reject the claim on account of this being a bilateral 
condition. It follows that I think CGIC should now pay Miss Cs claim. 
As I said above, I dont think CGIC dealt with Miss Cs claims fairly and reasonably because 
it did not appear to take into account the available expert evidence. Miss C has had to pay 
the claims herself. I also note that CGIC didnt respond to Miss Cs complaint within the eight 
weeks available to it. For these reasons I think CGIC should pay Miss C £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must now pay the claim for the luxating patella subject to 
any policy limit and any applicable excess. It must also pay Miss C interest at a yearly rate of 
8% simple from the date the claim was received to the date it pays her. And it must also pay 
Miss C £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must pay the above within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it that Miss C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the amount it pays from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
 
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd pays interest and considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C a tax deduction certificate if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman