DRN-3657599
The complaint
Mrs Z is unhappy that the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) refused to authorise a payment 
to a third party, kept the funds and provided a unsatisfactory level of service. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why.
Mrs Z has said RBS declined a payment for £285 to a third party (the retailer), as the 
address she entered didnt match what RBS held on its systems. And Mrs Z received 
this information from the retailer. 
Having reviewed the evidence submitted from RBS systems, Im satisfied RBS 
approved the transaction and can see an authorisation code was issued. So, this 
wouldve then been passed to the retailer to decide if it wished to continue with the 
payment.
So, while I appreciate the payment wasnt made to the retailer, I am satisfied RBS 
approved the payment and the funds moved to pending while it waited for the 
retailer to approve or decline the transaction. As such I am satisfied RBS didnt act 
unfairly regarding this.
Mrs Z says she didnt receive the funds in her account immediately after it was 
declined, and that RBS kept the transaction showing as pending. While I appreciate 
this was frustrating for Mrs Z it is common for a payment to take time to credit the 
account and usually consumers are advised it can take up to five working days. I 
have also considered if Mrs Z suffered any detriment by not have access to these 
funds. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest she did. So, I wont be asking 
RBS to do anything further in relation to this point.
I understand Mrs Z is unhappy because she says that RBS held an incorrect address 
for her on its system. I have reviewed RBS system notes and I am satisfied the 
address it holds matches the address Mrs Z provided to our service for our records. 
While I appreciate a different address was used for the retailer which didnt match the 
address RBS held on file (or the address our service holds for Mrs Z) If this address 
isnt correct Mrs Z needs to notify RBS in line with the account terms and conditions. 
In any event, this didnt stop RBS approving the payment as I have explained above. 
It was approved and passed to the retailer to approve or decline.
Mrs Z has also complained about the service it received from the bank, the 
information provided by an advisor, the language she used and the fact she didnt get 
a call back when promised. Ive listened to the call Mrs Z had with the advisor and 
while I agree the language the advisor used was vague, I am satisfied the information 
provided was in line with RBS processes. In any event I can see that Mrs Z was 
promised a call back within two hours (earlier than she had previously been advised) 
and I have listened to the voicemail RBS left. As such I am satisfied RBS did as it 
said it would do.
So overall I am satisfied RBS has treated Mrs Z fairly and as such I wont be asking it 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman