DRN-2951964
The complaint
Mr P complaints he was mis-sold an endowment policy for mortgage repayment purposes by 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of 
Canada, in 1987. He complains he didnt have a need for life cover as he was single, had no 
dependents and was studying at university. He also didnt have any mortgage at the time. 
He further complains the combination of funds were medium to high-risk, but he didnt have 
any investment experience. 
Mr P is being represented in his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat the full details 
here and will instead focus on giving reasons for my decision. But the key facts are:
Sun Life upheld Mr Ps complaint and offered £4,952.25 compensation. It agreed Mr 
P shouldnt have been sold a policy for mortgage repayment when there wasnt a 
mortgage in place. So it offered to refund the premiums paid into the policy plus 
interest, less the maturity value paid out in 2012. It also added interest on that 
amount until the date of the offer. It applied interest of 15% from 1987 to April 1993 
and 8% from then until the date of the offer. 
Our investigator found the offer was fair and in-line with our approach for such offers. 
The CMC has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, it has said:
The ombudsman service has specific guidelines relating to loss in relation to 
endowment savings plans. This isnt a question of the client being deprived of the 
loss of use of funds but losing out on an investment opportunity and so the interest 
should be Bank of England (BoE) base rate +1%. 
The rate being suggested by the ombudsman service is penalising Mr P as tax is 
being deducted. Mr P didnt need life cover and could have invested in another tax-
free saving plan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the findings and arguments above, I would like to reassure 
the parties I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with the 
overall conclusions reached by the investigator that the offer is fair for these reasons:
Sun Life has already agreed the policy shouldnt have been sold. So the only thing 
left for me to consider is whether it has offered fair redress. 
When someone has been deprived off the loss of use of their funds, or were unsure 
of what they would have been used for, then our approach to interest on those sums 
is the 15% and 8% rates already applied by Sun Life. As Mr P was a student, I can 
understand the assumption that £25.51 (the monthly endowment premium) would 
likely have gone towards everyday spending and thats why those rates have been 
applied. But I dont think I can fairly ignore that Mr P clearly had saving for a goal in 
mind  a future mortgage  and so was specifically looking to make savings at the 
time. I can therefore equally understand the arguments the CMC has made. But it 
doesnt necessarily follow that Sun Life should use BoE+1% instead of the rates it 
has, or that the offer its made is unfair. And I would only ask it to do something 
different if I found the offer unfair or unreasonable.
The CMC has argued that BoE+1% should apply as Mr P would have invested into 
other tax-free savings.  Other than into an endowment policy, which was only tax-free 
because of the inclusion of life cover, the only tax-free investment Im aware of being 
available in 1987 that didnt contain a form of life cover was a PEP. PEPs were 
invested into stock and shares, so either equal to or higher risk, than the endowment 
policy Mr P complains was mis-sold. It doesnt seem to me that the CMC can argue 
that the endowment was unsuitable because of the level of risk, but that other equally 
risky investments would have been invested into instead. But if it is arguing that Mr P 
would have invested, then it seems to me the only reason the endowment was 
unsuitable was because of the inclusion of life cover.  So appropriate redress would 
be a refund of the life cover part of the premium only, or the difference between the 
life cover premium and the minimum premium needed for qualifying purposes. By 
basing redress on the full premium rather than just the cost of life cover or part life 
cover, Sun Lifes offer is more than Mr P is entitled to and more than I would I award 
in such circumstances. I therefore find it fair and reasonable.
If we take the CMCs original complaint that Mr P didnt want to take the level of risk 
associated with the endowment (and so therefore a PEP wouldnt have been 
appropriate either) then it seems to me that Mr P was left with very limited options as 
to where to place his money, with the most likely being into a bank, or other similar 
type of savings account, which would have earned tax-free interest providing Mr P 
was earning less than any personal income tax allowance. In my experience, Mr P 
wouldnt have been able to earn the levels of interest on such savings, taxed or 
otherwise, that Sun Life has already applied to the compensation. For that reason 
also I find the offer fair. 
I have considered this case carefully and whilst in some cases it might be appropriate to add 
BoE+1% instead of the 15% and 8% simple per annum rates, that doesnt mean its 
appropriate in all cases or that an offer based on the latter rates is inherently unfair. Here, it 
is by no means certain whether Mr P would have invested or simply saved; both options are 
equally possible given the evidence available and the arguments made during the course of 
this complaint. 
Overall, I find the offer already made by Sun Life fair; I dont find anything unfair or 
unreasonable when it used the rates it has in calculating Mr Ps loss.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada has already made a fair offer to 
resolve this complaint. I require it to pay Mr P £4,952.25 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman