DRN-4100242
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that a timeshare product was misrepresented to them and that the 
timeshare company is in breach of contract. The purchase was partly financed with credit 
provided by Vacation Finance Limited  (VFL). Because of that, Mr and Mrs K say that they 
have a claim against VFL in the same way they have a claim against the timeshare 
company. 
They say too that the company which arranged the loan was not authorised to do so and that 
the circumstances of the sale were such that the loan agreement created an unfair 
relationship between them and VFL. 
Mr and Mrs K have been represented in this complaint, and so any reference to their 
submissions and arguments includes those made on their behalf. 
What happened
In August 2018 Mr and Mrs K agreed to buy, and Azure XP Limited agreed to sell, a points-
based timeshare product and membership of a holiday club in Malta. They bought 4,000 
points (referred to as XPs) at a cost of £11,360. XPs could be exchanged for holiday 
accommodation and experiences, including sailing trips, motor home hire, and driving 
experiences The purchase was partly financed with a 10-year loan from VFL. 
In 2020 Azure XP Limited and Azure Resorts Limited, a company in the same group, went 
into liquidation. 
In January 2021 Mr and Mrs K wrote to Azure to say that they were unhappy with the 
timeshare product and that they wanted to terminate their club membership. They followed 
that in April 2021 with a letter to VFL. In that letter they said that they had claims under 
section 75 and section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Their letter said, in summary:
They had been subject to pressured sales tactics.
The timeshare product had been misrepresented to them. 
The product had been sold as an investment, but there is no resale market. 
The seller is in liquidation and is therefore in breach of contract.
VFL had not carried out any proper affordability checks.
VFL did not respond in full to Mr and Mrs Ps allegations, and they referred the matter to this 
service. One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not recommend that 
the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs K did not accept the investigators recommendation 
and asked that an ombudsman review the case. In doing so, they added that the credit 
intermediary had not been properly authorised to arrange the loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Authorisation
Where a loan is arranged by an intermediary without the necessary authorisation from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the lender cannot enforce it without confirmation from the 
FCA.
The loan agreement in this case says that the intermediary was Azure Services Limited. It 
was FCA authorised at the time. Mr and Mrs K say that Azure XP Limited was the broker 
and was not authorised. That was not the case, however; that company was the seller of the 
timeshare product, not the named intermediary. 
Affordability 
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. 
Mr and Mrs K have provided no evidence suggesting they had difficulty making loan 
repayments. On the contrary, they indicated when they made the complaint that they had 
been able to meet the payments and that their financial position was satisfactory and 
unchanged from the time they took out the loan. And I note as well that they repaid it in 
October 2018  that is, within a few weeks of drawdown. In the circumstances, I cannot 
properly uphold this part of the complaint. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
I do not understand VFL to dispute that the loan was made under pre-existing arrangements 
between it and Azure XP Limited, the seller of the membership and the XPs. It was certainly 
made under arrangements which VFL had with Azure Services Limited, a company in the 
same group as Azure XP Limited and a representative of VFL. I have therefore considered 
Mr and Mrs Ks claims against the seller.  
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr and Mrs Ks statements about what they were told at the sales presentation are largely 
unsupported by any documentation. They have said that they were told the XPs could be 
sold at a profit and that they were sold as an investment. 
The Application for Membership recorded that Mr and Mrs K had received the Standard 
Information Document, the Rules of Membership, the Reservation Rules, and the Deed of Trust. That is relevant to the question of whether they were misled about what they were 
buying.  
I am not persuaded that the XPs were sold as an investment, even if there was some 
provision for them to be sold. They were sold as a means of funding holiday accommodation 
and experiences. The contractual documents made it clear that XPs could only be sold 
through Azure and once they had been held for five years. I understand  the resale 
programme was opened in 2022, after this complaint was first brought. But the fact that there 
is a resale programme does not mean that the XPs were sold as an investment. 
In addition, the Membership Application included, at clause 13:
This Agreement shall constitute the sole agreement between the parties and supersedes all 
prior agreements, representations, discussions and negotiations between the parties with 
respect to the subject matter hereof.
And clause 20 included:
This Agreement is irrevocable and legally binding upon all parties and cannot be cancelled 
or rescinded at any time after the expiry of the statutory withdrawal period stated In this 
Agreement and will supersede any and all understandings and agreements between the 
parties hereto whether written or oral and it is mutually understood and agreed that this 
Agreement and the Standard Information Document and ancillary documents represent the 
entire agreement between the parties hereto and no representation or inducements made 
prior hereto which are not included in and embodied In this Agreement, or the documents 
referred to, will have any force or effect.
In my view, that was an attempt to ensure that anything on which Mr and Mrs K sought to 
rely was included in the contract itself. I am not persuaded in this case that they were misled, 
but, if I were to take a different view on that, I would need to consider the effect of that 
provision.
Breach of contract
Mr and Mrs K say that the liquidation of Azure companies means that the services which 
they bought cannot now be provided and that there is a breach of contract. 
I do not agree that there was a breach of contract. Azure XP Limited had founded the Azure 
Experiences Membership Club and had sold the XPs to Mr and Mrs K. It had ownership of or 
access to properties which were to be used by members, but transferred those ownership 
and access rights to a different company, the sole shareholder in which was to be a trustee.   
On 8 July 2020 the trustee wrote to all the club members. Its letter said:
We have good news for all members. Following discussions with the liquidators of both 
Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited and with the directors of Golden Sands Resorts 
Limited (the owner of the resort) it has been decided that in the best interest of all clubs 
members, First National Trustee Company (UK) Limited (FNTC) be requested to establish a 
new company to act as manager of the clubs on behalf of all clubs members.
This new management company will be a non-profit making entity and its only role will be to 
manage the clubs for, and on behalf of, its members.

Wed like to reassure you that the future of the clubs is secure. From your perspective as a 
member, there is a lot to look forward to as soon as governmental travel restrictions are 
lifted. We are also pleased to report to you that Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Golden Sands in Malta has reopened and is available for member use after the resort has successfully 
established COVID-19 health and safety precautions.
The services linked to Mr and Mrs Ks purchase of XPs therefore are unaffected by the 
liquidation of the Azure companies. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any linked transaction.
I am satisfied that the timeshare agreement in this case was a linked transaction (that is, 
linked to the loan agreement) within the meaning of section 19 of the Act. There was a 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, and the timeshare agreement was financed by the loan.   
I have therefore considered what it is alleged was said at the point of sale and the effect of 
the liquidation of Azure companies and whether that is likely to mean that the loan 
agreement created an unfair relationship. 
For the reasons I have explained, I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs K were misled about 
the timeshare or that the liquidation of the Azure companies amounted to a breach of 
contract. 
There is no detail about the pressure which Mr and Mrs K say they were subjected to at the 
time of sale  for example, what form that pressure took and who exerted it. Nor have Mr 
and Mrs K explained why, if they felt they had been pressured into the sale, they did not take 
advantage of their right to cancel the sale and loan within 14 days.  
Mr and Mrs K say that they were not told they were buying a timeshare. I dont accept that. 
The sale documents included a document headed Standard Information Form for 
Timeshare Contracts. And, because they were buying a timeshare product, they had the 
benefit of, for example, the protections set out in The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale 
and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. Those protections included the 14-day cooling-
off period. 
Mr and Mrs K say they were not provided with details of any commission paid to VFL. They 
do not suggest that they asked about commission, but I have no reason to think they would 
not have been told what it was if they had done. VFL would have been under a duty to 
provide that information. VFL has said however that its arrangements with Azure did not 
include the payment of commission. 
In any event, Azure XP Limited and Azure Services Limited werent acting as agents of Mr 
and Mrs K, but as the seller of the timeshare interest. They also introduced VFL to Mr and 
Mrs K, but it does not appear to me that it was their role to make an impartial or disinterested 
recommendation or to give advice or information on that basis. My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and I 
do not require Vacation Finance Limited to do anything more to resolve it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman