DRN-3907387
The complaint
Mr T complains about how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited dealt with a claim he made for his 
infant daughter against his private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr Ts infant daughter, who Ill refer to as S, has the benefit of 
private medical insurance as a dependant of Mr T.     
S developed a fever, irritable ears and throat and a continuous cough and cold. S GP 
advised that she go to A&E. On 16 May 2022, Mr T contacted AXA about making an 
urgent appointment with a paediatrician for S. AXA told Mr T that it can provide names of 
appropriate specialists, or it can book an appointment in its fast-track appointment 
service which may take up to five working days. 
On 17 May 2022, AXA sent Mr T a text with contact details of two specialists. On           
18 May 2022, Mr T told AXA that those specialists dont have appropriate availability. 
AXA said that it would make an appointment for S. On 19 May 2022, AXA told Mr T that 
it had told him, incorrectly, that it can make an appointment for S and said that hed need 
to make an appointment himself. 
On 20 May 2022, AXA sent Mr T a text with the names of five specialists. Two were a 
considerable distance from Mr Ts home. Of the other three, one had previously been 
provided to Mr T and didnt have appropriate availability, which Mr T had already told 
AXA. Mr T asked AXA for a list of other specialists. Later on 20 May 2022, AXA sent    
Mr T a list of seven specialists via its online system, but that information didnt reach     
Mr T because AXA had input into its system some incorrect information about Mr T. AXA 
re-sent that information to Mr T. 
Mr T complained about the service hed received. I understand that Mr T made an 
appointment for S with a specialist himself. AXA says that it has settled a claim for S for 
a consultation on 10 June 2022 with one of the specialists whose details it provided to 
Mr T. Mr T says that the consultation was in fact in July 2022.  
AXA apologised for its errors and paid Mr T compensation of £150. Mr T pursued his 
complaint. 
Mr T says that this matter has caused him distress and inconvenience and he wants 
compensation of £10,000 in relation to that. He also wants a letter from AXA confirming 
that fast-track appointments with paediatricians are not available and that theyve 
informed all policyholders with children about that. Mr T wants AXA to explain why     
fast-track appointments with paediatricians are not available and why he wasnt told that 
at the outset. He wants AXA to provide an updated policy document.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Initially, she said that AXA 
should increase the compensation to £250. Neither Mr T nor AXA agreed with that. Mr T 
said that the investigator had oversimplified the matter. He responded at some length, 
which I wont set out here. AXA said that the compensation of £150 it had already paid 
was sufficient. 
The investigator considered the matter again. She said that the compensation of £150 
AXA had paid was fair. In essence, that was because whilst AXA had provided Mr T with 
incorrect information, it corrected that quite quickly. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator. He asked that an ombudsman consider his 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
In this decision, Im looking at the matters Mr T raised with AXA, to which it provided a 
final response in July 2022. In addition, AXA didnt sell the policy to Mr T, so I dont deal 
with any issues around the sale of the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr T has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes 
provided detailed submissions, which I have read and considered. Im conscious that Ive 
condensed what I dont doubt was a worrying time into a short narrative. That reflects our 
service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. Im satisfied that Ive captured the 
essence of what happened. I trust that Mr T wont take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues.       
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
Mr Ts complaint because whilst AXA didnt provide an appropriate level of service, I think 
that the steps it has already taken to put matters right are fair and reasonable. Ill explain 
why:   
Its common ground that AXA didnt provide Mr T with an appropriate level of 
service. AXA accepts that it told Mr T, incorrectly, that the fast-track appointment 
service was available for children. It included a specialist on a list after Mr T had 
told it that the specialist didnt have appointments within a reasonable time and 
also gave Mr T information about specialists that were a considerable distance 
from his  home. AXA recorded some of Mr Ts details incorrectly which meant that 
a list of specialists didnt reach him. AXA apologised and paid Mr T compensation 
of £150.
The remaining issue for me to decide is whether AXA needs to do any more than 
its already done in order to put matters right for Mr T. This service isnt the 
regulator; we cant direct AXA generally about how it conducts its business. So, I 
cant direct AXA to take steps in relation to all policyholders with children. But I can 
look at what went wrong here and what steps, if any, AXA needs to take to put 
things right for Mr T.  
In general terms, an insurer can decide what cover it wishes to offer. It doesnt 
have to explain to a policyholder why it doesnt offer certain cover. So, I dont think 
that AXA is required to explain to Mr T why fast-track appointments arent available 
for children.Mr T wants a letter from AXA confirming that fast-track appointments with 
paediatricians are not available. I think that AXA has already provided something 
appropriate along those lines. In its final response to Mr T dated 12 July 2022, AXA 
said that Mr T was told on a few occasions that the Fast-Track Appointment 
Service was available for child patients; however, it later came to light that this was 
not the case. So, I think that Mr T has written confirmation of AXAs position. I 
dont think that AXA is required to do more, or to provide Mr T with an updated 
policy document. 
Mr T seeks compensation of £10,000. When things go wrong we look at the effect 
of the errors on the individual. In this case, Mr T was understandably disappointed 
to learn that the fast-track service wasnt available for S. AXA corrected its error 
quite quickly. 
AXA isnt responsible for the availability of specialists. Its not clear to me that S 
care was delayed as a result of AXAs errors, as both AXA and Mr T are subject to 
the same availability issues in relation to the specialists. 
Mr T suffered distress and inconvenience in trying to obtain a list of specialists 
within a reasonable distance of his home and there was some delay in getting that 
information because of a data error by AXA. 
In all the circumstances, I think that the compensation of £150 AXA has already 
paid is fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, Ive taken into 
account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience Mr T 
suffered as a result of AXAs errors.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint as the compensation of £150           
AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has already paid is fair and reasonable.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman