DRN-4216174
The complaint
P complained that Global Re Broking Solutions Ltd GBS mis-sold an insurance policy to 
cover them for their business premises and contents. GBS were acting as Ps broker in the 
sale of the policy.
What happened
GBS acted as a broker or intermediary in the sale of an insurance policy to P. GBS asked P 
to complete a form setting out various details about the business. GBS used these details to 
recommend insurance cover for P and then arranged it with the insurer.
P carried out their daily business by selling products in a shop. Unfortunately, P suffered at 
the hands of criminals who broke into the shop and vandalised it. P said their business is no 
longer a going concern.
P made a claim under the policy. However, when the insurer validated the claim, it identified 
that the nature of Ps business wasnt accurately disclosed to it when the policy was taken 
out. Had the insurer known about the full nature of the business, it said it wouldnt have 
insured P as the risk was seen as too high. So, the insurer voided the policy, and it didnt 
consider the claim.
P doesnt think GBS fulfilled its responsibilities as broker when it sold the policy. P didnt 
think GBS did enough to understand their business and didnt think it had done a satisfactory 
job at representing P when arranging the insurance. P wants GBS to indemnify them for the 
loss theyve suffered.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think the broker had asked 
enough questions or clear enough questions of P. He didnt think the information collected 
was sufficient for GBS to reasonably represent the risk to the insurer of covering P. So, he 
thought GBS should step into the insurers shoes and settle the claim. GBS disagreed, so 
the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision on this on 8 June 2023. I said:
Before I share my decision on this complaint, I wanted to clarify this complaint is against the 
broker, so I wont be considering any of the actions carried out by the insurer. My decision 
will only consider whether the broker acted reasonably in arranging the sale of the policy.
The policy was voided by the insurer, as when P came to make their claim, the nature of 
their business was inconsistent with what was presented to the insurer. So, Ive considered 
the process that GBS followed to gain assurance it had presented the correct details to the 
insurer to properly insure P. 
GBS asked P to complete an Insurance Factfind form. So, Ive reviewed the form to see 
what questions were asked about the nature of Ps business and what specific questions 
were asked to understand any inherent risks in insuring that business. The form asks some 
generic questions about the premises, security, financial details and insurance cover needs. 
The form is extremely brief  its three pages with an additional blank page for any other 
information.
In the other information section, P provided a high-level description of what the business was 
using its own words. I dont think P wouldve known exactly what information wouldve 
helped GBS fulfil its responsibilities. I dont think it was Ps role to know this. I think the form 
is limited. Given the role of the broker is to represent P to ensure their insurance needs are 
properly met, I dont think there is evidence to show GBS has fulfilled this role reasonably. I 
dont think GBS has collected enough information to accurately represent the risk to the 
insurer. I think it was GBS responsibility to define what information was collected from P.
I can see GBS also held a call with P around this time. It wouldve been helpful to listen to 
this call as it may have provided further evidence of what was discussed during the sales 
process. Its generally seen as good practice in the industry to record these calls for many 
purposes, such as this sale to check back on facts. Unfortunately, GBS said it didnt record 
the call. GBS and P disagreed on what was discussed on this call. However, as the call isnt 
available to listen to, I have relied on the evidence that was collected (i.e., the Insurance 
Factfind form). 
I can see the account executive from GBS who was on the call did make a note to inform a 
colleague about part of the call. She said P did mention food supplements during our initial 
conversation, but I didn't press [P] on the nature of the ingredients of the 'food supplements' 
which perhaps I should have. I was advised the retail unit would be selling soft drinks, 
confectionary and food supplements which I believed to be vitamins, meal replacements 
drinks etc, in my ignorance I have no knowledge of any CBD products or their uses so it 
wouldn't occur to me that they would or could be deemed a supplement. 
Whilst I cant make a judgement on the call itself, I think this note does further add evidence 
to the limited information collected on the form. I think it provides evidence that Ps business 
wasnt fully understood by GBS when it arranged insurance for them. The account executive 
has admitted she shouldve asked more detailed questions and she has shown she didnt 
understand all the answers given.
I think its clear GBS didnt do enough to understand the business requirements it was 
representing or the limitations of the policy it was recommending. The two sides of the 
equation didnt match. If GBS had done its role properly it wouldve known the specific risk 
factors the insurer needed to know and it wouldve made sure it captured this information 
from its client, P. GBS were the expert in this process, I dont think it was reasonable for 
GBS to expect P to know what was required and to put all these details on the free form 
section of the Insurance Factfind form. 
The insurer said had it known about the risks, it wouldnt have offered cover. I havent seen 
any evidence provided to show what P was selling was illegal. Ive seen a Police Report that 
covers the incident, so I wouldve expected any illegal activity to have been identified there. 
On this basis, I dont have reason to think P wouldnt have managed to get insurance 
elsewhere with a different provider. No evidence has been provided to show P wouldnt have 
gotten cover somewhere, so I think P could reasonably have expected to have his claim 
paid.
I dont think GBS has done its role reasonably. I think its likely P wouldve attained 
insurance elsewhere had the facts been properly presented to an insurer, so I intend to 
uphold this complaint as GBS shortcomings has caused financial consequences for P. I 
think GBS has mis-sold the policy. I dont think it was appropriate for P.I intend that GBS settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
voided policy. I think this is fair, as this is the insurance P thought GBS had arranged for it. 
Its reasonable as it limits the liability for GBS in the same way as the policy wouldve done 
for the insurer.
However, I appreciate GBS doesnt normally settle claims and in this case I dont think its 
easy to calculate a monetary settlement as further investigation is required. Its worth noting 
that if there are any difficulties in agreeing the settlement, any subsequent complaint may 
not be in the jurisdiction of our service.
Therefore, I intend to hold GBS liable for the payment of Ps claim. I think the fairest way to 
proceed is to get GBS and P to agree to jointly choose and instruct (at the expense of GBS) 
a loss adjuster to assess how much, if anything, the insurer wouldve paid. GBS are required 
to settle the liabilities as set out by the loss adjuster. I intend this approach to allow GBS to 
fairly indemnify P. If P is prepared to put forward a monetary figure GBS would accept before 
getting an expert report commissioned, then this would remove the need to appoint an 
expert and would provide a more amicable closure to these claims.
Responses to my provisional decision
GBS disagreed with my provisional decision. It provided a detailed response which I will 
summarise:
GBS said P did not present themselves accurately or honestly to GBS. It said, it is only 
when a prospective policyholder provides full and open disclosure of their business activities, 
that a broker can do their job properly in presenting that risk to the insurance market. GBS 
said that it reasonably didnt know the confectionary store sold anything out of the norm.
GBS said it takes further issue with the true extent of any such losses claimed. It has 
provided CCTV footage to support its view. GBS said it doesnt believe there are 
circumstances where a valid business interruption claim would pay out on the fact of these 
incidents.
P didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the efforts GBS has gone to explain why it doesnt think P disclosed accurately 
the nature of their business. However, I dont think it has provided any new information here 
that I didnt consider in my provisional decision, so I maintain my decision to uphold this 
complaint.
GBS has disputed the losses P has claimed for. Im not a loss adjuster, so its not my role to 
investigate a claim and validate any losses that have taken place in the context of the terms 
and conditions of the policy. Thats why I think the most appropriate course of action is for 
the claim to be investigated. Given the circumstances, I think this is best done by both 
parties jointly agreeing who the loss adjuster should be. Or alternatively as I set out 
previously, if P is prepared to put forward a monetary figure GBS would accept before 
getting an expert report commissioned, then this would remove the need to appoint an 
expert.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I intend Global Re Broking Solutions Ltd to:
Agree with P and jointly choose and instruct (at the expense of GBS) a loss adjuster 
to assess how much, if anything, the insurer wouldve paid in these claims. GBS are 
required to settle the liabilities as set out by the loss adjuster. If P is prepared to put 
forward a monetary figure GBS would accept before getting an expert report 
commissioned, then this would remove the need to appoint an expert.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman