DRN-1948494
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is that Loans 2 Go Limited didnt comply with a previous decision about his 
loan. Instead it sold his outstanding debt to a third party and wrote to him which caused him 
stress. He wants the original decision complied with and compensation for the upset he has 
been caused.
Mr L is being represented by Ms L.
What happened
Mr L entered into a loan agreement with Loans 2 Go for £1,000. He later raised a complaint 
saying the loan had been provided irresponsibly. His complaint was brought to this service 
and a final decision was issued in 2019. The decision upheld his complaint and said all 
interest and charges should be refunded and that Mr L was only required to pay the 
outstanding capital amount. It also required any adverse information about the loan to be 
removed from his credit file.
The actions set out in the final decision werent complied with and Loans 2 Go sold Mr Ls 
debt to a third party. Mr L raised a new complaint about this saying he felt threatened and 
that the issue caused him mental health issues and loss of earnings due to him not being 
able to work for a week.
Loans 2 Go issued a final response letter in September 2019, accepting that a mistake had 
been made and apologising for this. It said the loan shouldnt have been sold and that a 
system error had occurred, and it was investigating how this had happened. It noted that 
Mr L had paid £195.56 towards to loan leaving a capital balance outstanding of £804.44. 
Given the upset that had been caused by it selling his loan it offered to write off the 
remaining balance leaving Mr L with nothing more to pay. It also confirmed that it had 
previously removed the negative information from his credit file. Loans 2 Go then offered to 
pay Mr L £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Ms L, on behalf of Mr L, didnt accept that Loans 2 Go had done enough by offering to write 
off the loan and pay Mr L £50. She said that Mr L was suffering severe mental health issues 
and that this issue had a major detrimental effect on him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A final decision was issued upholding Mr Ls complaint in 2019 and Loans 2 Go was 
required to act in accordance with this. This didnt happen and I can understand how 
upsetting this must have been for Mr L. His debt was sold, and contact was made which 
given Mr Ls circumstances was particularly upsetting.
Mr L has asked that the original decision be complied with and in circumstances such as this 
we would expect this to happen. Given the upset that has been caused I would also expect 
Mr L to receive some compensation. 
Loans 2 Go accepted that a mistake had been made and apologised for this. It also 
confirmed that part of the decision had been complied with (removal of adverse information 
from Mr Ls credit file). It noted the outstanding balance due on Mr Ls account which, based 
on the original decision, would have been payable by him. It offered to write this off.
I can understand that the issues have had a serious effect on Mr L and why Ms L has said 
that more should be done to compensate him. However, I think that by offering to write off 
the remaining balance so that Mr L has nothing further to pay and that no ongoing contact 
will be required, Loans2Go has acted fairly. It has also offered a payment of £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
I am sorry to hear of the upset Mr L has been caused but I think that Loans 2 Gos response, 
including its offer to write off the balance and pay £50, is reasonable and I do not require it to 
do anything further. If Loans 2 Go hasnt bought back the debt it should either do this and 
then write off the outstanding balance or arrange the write off with the third party. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Loans 2 Go Limited should, as it offered, ensure the write off of the 
remaining balance on Mr Ls account and pay him £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman