DRN-2358818
The complaint
Ms H complains about the service she received from British Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL), 
when she made a claim on her central heating breakdown cover insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms H contacted BGIL when her boiler stopped heating the water in her home. An engineer 
visited on 20 July to see what the problem was. Ms H wasnt happy with the way the 
engineer dealt with her though, and didnt feel hed done enough to deal with a problem the 
boiler seemed to have with its fan.
The engineer returned on 21 July to carry out some repairs. But after he left, the boiler 
stopped working again. Ms H complained to BGIL. They sent the engineer back to her home, 
and a new fan was ordered for the boiler. A different engineer attended on 22 July and fitted 
the new fan. That seemed to fully repair the boiler. 
BGIL accepted that their service to Ms H had caused her unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. To put this right, they apologised and paid her £50 compensation. Ms H 
didnt feel this was enough compensation though, so she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the matter and explained why he felt £50 was suitable in this case. 
Ms H still didnt agree, so the matters come to me for a final decision. 
Our investigator hadnt contacted BGIL directly  his contact was with their agent, which had 
dealt with the complaint. Ive tried to contact BGIL to confirm they are happy theyve had 
opportunity to respond to our investigation. Theyve not replied, so Im treating that as saying 
they are happy, and have nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Ms H has a strong opinion about what needs to be done to put things right 
in this case, Ive decided BGIL have already taken suitable steps to do so. Ill explain why. 
Its agreed that BGIL fixed the boiler, which is fundamentally what the insurance policy was 
there to do. It seems this could have been done a day earlier than it was  on 21 July rather 
than 22 July  if the engineers visits had dealt with the fan issue more efficiently. 
BGIL and our investigator also accepted that Ms H wasnt happy with the approach and 
attitude of the first engineer when at her property. And Ms H wasnt happy the same 
engineer returned to look at the broken boiler, after shed told someone over the phone that 
she didnt want to see him again. 
Our approach in all complaints is to think about what needs to happen to put things right. 
Here, the work thats been done has put right the problem with the boiler. Having the same 
engineer attend on 21 July seems to have helped make sure that happened as quickly as 
possible. While thats meant the request for a different engineer wasnt met on 21 July, BGIL 
did have someone different attend on 22 July. So Im happy the request was eventually met. 
The question here is then how BGIL can apologise for the trouble and upset Ms H felt during 
this matter. Financial compensation can make for an effective apology, but the exact amount 
needed is a matter of opinion. BGIL offered £50. Ms H thinks it should be more like £100. 
In my view, £50 is the right figure. It reflects that the whole matter lasted three days  20 to 
22 July inclusive  and so wasnt an ongoing source of frustration for Ms H. 
And it reflects the scale of the problem, compared to other cases that might come to our 
service. Ms H hasnt suffered financial hardship, or had to worry about the future of her 
home or livelihood. She spoke three times to someone she didnt feel was treating her 
properly. But the conversation was limited to the repair of a boiler, which was ultimately 
repaired in a relatively short timescale. 
As BGIL have already paid Ms H suitable compensation and apologised, I find theres 
nothing further they need to do to resolve this matter. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman