DRN-3216640
The complaint
A company, M, complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited trading as NFU Mutual (NFU) caused damage while it was dealing with a claim 
under a commercial property insurance policy.
I will normally refer to Mrs R, who made the complaint as a leaseholder insured under the 
policy. References to NFU includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs R made a claim for an escape of water. NFU installed a dehumidifier in her home. Mrs R 
noticed some damage to a door frame and some tiles. She complained to NFU, as she said 
the damage was caused when the dehumidifier was installed.
When NFU replied to the complaint, it said there was no evidence its contractor had caused 
the damage. However, the contractor had offered to carry out a repair free of charge as a 
gesture of goodwill, but Mrs R had declined this as it was unable to offer a guarantee for the 
work. The contractor had then offered £200 as an alternative solution, which NFU thought 
was fair and reasonable.
Mrs R complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
NFUs offer to deal with the damage was reasonable in the circumstances and NFU didnt 
need to do anything further.
As Mrs R didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require NFU to do anything more than it has already offered to 
resolve this complaint. I will explain why.
A couple of weeks after a dehumidifier was installed, Mrs R found some damage to her 
home, which she reported to NFU. Ive looked at the evidence, including the photos of the 
damage. Im aware Mrs R didnt see the damage happen and I dont think the evidence 
shows one way or the other whether the damage was caused when the dehumidifier was 
installed. However, I do think it could have happened in the way Mrs R described. NFU also 
seems to accept it could have happened in that way. So, it offered to deal with the damage 
as a gesture of goodwill. First, it offered to carry out a repair. However, Mrs R was 
concerned this work wouldnt include a guarantee. NFU then offered £200 as an alternative 
way to resolve the dispute.
So, Ive thought about whether what NFU offered was reasonable. Given NFU was willing to 
deal with the issue, I would expect NFU to put Mrs R back in the position she was before the 
damage happened. An insurer would also normally attempt a repair before it considered 
alternatives, which is what it wanted to do in this instance. Mrs R wasnt required to accept 
the offer of a repair and she chose not to do so. I understand that NFU is no longer willing to 
carry out the repairs.
NFU then offered £200 to resolve the issue, which Mrs R also declined. Im aware Mrs R has 
said she was concerned she would need to find someone to inspect the damage and carry 
out the repairs and that it might be difficult to find tradespeople to do this. However, given 
NFU had previously offered to carry out the repair, I think it was reasonable for it to offer 
cash so that Mrs R could arrange the repair herself. 
Im aware that Mrs R is concerned that more damage might be found. But, at the moment, 
that is a hypothetical situation. NFU made an offer to deal with the reported damage. If 
further damage is found, NFU would need the opportunity to consider whether it might have 
any responsibility for that additional damage. Im unable to comment on this point any 
further.
Based on what Ive seen, NFU made reasonable offers to try and resolve Mrs Rs concerns 
about the damage she reported to it. I leave it to Mrs R to decide whether she now wishes to 
accept NFUs offer of £200.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited trading as NFU Mutuals offer of £200 to resolve the complaint 
was reasonable. If Mrs R now wishes to accept that offer, it should pay the £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman