DRN-1323276
 The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint about the service they received from Blemain Finance Limited 
("Blemain") while redeeming their mortgage.
What happened
In 2019 Mr S spoke to Blemain about redeeming his mortgage. Following this, he made 
several complaints about the way Blemain had handled his account. Mr S says that he was 
provided with an incorrect redemption figure and on several occasions was given incorrect or 
incomplete information about how he could repay the mortgage. And he says Blemain failed 
to call him back to discuss his account.
Mr S also says his annual statement contained incorrect information which led to him 
needing to make a lengthy phone call to Blemain in October 2019. He says that during this 
call, his complaint points weren't taken down fully which led to him needing to make a further 
call to clarify these. Following this call Mr S says Blemain failed to send him the interest 
breakdown he had requested. And Mr S has said that he is unhappy Blemain has sent its 
post second class, not first.
Blemain responded to Mr and Mrs S's complaints - acknowledging it had made mistakes and 
that there were areas it could improve. It acknowledged that it had calculated the redemption 
figure incorrectly and refunded the difference to Mr S within 30 days. It also offered Mr and 
Mrs S £125 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its mistakes had caused. But 
Mr and Mrs S thought that £125 didn't adequately compensate for the issues that had 
occurred.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the compensation 
already offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And she didn't think Mr and 
Mrs S had suffered any detriment from being without the additional money they had paid 
towards the mortgage redemption as this was refunded within 30 days.
Mr and Mrs S didn't agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same reasons.
Blemain has acknowledged that it made a mistake when calculating the redemption figure 
and has refunded the additional amount Mr and Mrs S paid. Mr and Mrs S are concerned 
that the mistake might not have been picked up if they hadn't raised it - and I can understand 
their concerns. But I can only consider what actually happened, not what might have 
happened in different circumstances. And here I can see Blemain made a mistake but has 
now refunded the money so it has put Mr and Mrs S back in the position they would have 
been in had the mistake not happened.Some of the issues Mr and Mrs S have raised are about Blemain's business decisions - such 
as how it sends post and the format of its annual statements. We wouldn't generally interfere 
with these issues. But in this instance, I can see Blemain has fed back your concerns to the 
relevant department and offered to send most of your correspondence first class. So I think it 
has done enough to put things right in relation to these concerns.
Both parties agree that Blemain didn't provide a good level of customer service during the 
time it was speaking to Mr S about redeeming the mortgage. Blemain has already offered 
£125 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused by these errors so my role is 
to decide whether that is sufficient or whether Blemain should increase the compensation it 
pays to Mr S and Mrs S.
I can imagine that this situation has been frustrating for Mr and Mrs S, who understandably 
expected a better level of customer service. But I also have to consider that once these 
issues were raised with Blemain, they were rectified within a short period of time and Mr and 
Mrs S were given the information they had requested. And while Mr S did have to call 
Blemain on a few occasions, which would have been inconvenient, the number of calls Mr S 
had to make wasn't excessive.
So taking everything into account, I think the compensation Blemain has already offered in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs S is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. And I won't be asking it to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Blemain Finance Limited should pay Mr S and Mrs S the £125 compensation it already 
offered if it hasn't done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman