DRN-1841241
The complaint
Miss J complained that Aviva Insurance Limited didnt handle her claim properly when she 
claimed under her motor insurance policy. She wanted them to compensate her for getting 
the third party to admit liability.  
What happened
After Miss Js car was damaged in an accident, Aviva decided that it was beyond economical 
repair. They settled her claim by paying her cars market value, less the policy excess. This 
was over £10,000. They told her that they may be able to recover their costs and her 
uninsured losses from the third party, a road agency. 
Miss J and her father investigated the accident with the third party. She said they got the 
third party to admit liability. So she wanted Aviva to pay her a share of any compensation 
they might recover from the third party. 
Aviva thanked Miss J and her father and offered her £225 for their help in getting that 
information from the third party, and for not having managed their expectations. But they 
said theyd settled her claim, as theyd already paid her what they had to under the policy. 
They said they werent obliged to pay any more compensation and hadnt promised to. 
Miss J brought her complaint to us, and her father Mr J represented her.  
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Aviva hadnt acted unreasonably and the compensation theyd offered was fair.  Miss J didnt 
agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss J felt that the third party as to blame for her accident. So she and her father 
investigated this with the third party, and said they got them to accept liability. Miss J said 
that Aviva hadnt give her any support with that, and their investigation took them time and 
effort over about three months. She felt theyd done work which Aviva should have done. So 
this had saved Aviva money as they could now recover their losses, which theyd have 
written off otherwise. She wanted them to pay her a fair share of the amount they recovered 
from the third party, and said theyd promised this in a call with her father.
 
I can see from their records that Aviva did explain to Miss J that they would try to recover 
from the third party, but that this was limited to any amounts theyd paid out on the claim 
already under her policy. They also said theyd ask solicitors to claim her uninsured losses.
They apologised for not contacting the third party earlier and accepted that they hadnt done 
all they could there. They recognised that Miss J and her father had investigated the third 
partys liability and got them to admit responsibility. So they offered her £225 compensation 
for any inconvenience that may have caused her. 
But they said they hadnt promised her or her father a share of any compensation they might 
recover from the third party. And having listened to the phone call recordings, I agree with 
that. I dont think Aviva made such a promise. 
Im satisfied that they explained that all they could try to recover were the amounts theyd 
already paid her, and they could also ask solicitors to recover her uninsured losses. But 
theyd already settled her claim, treated the claim as non-fault, and allowed her no claims 
discount. So even if Aviva could have done more to investigate the third partys liability 
earlier, I dont think that prejudiced Miss J. 
Ive got to look at whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably and in line with her policy, and I 
think that they did. They settled her claim.  What action they took, or didnt take, to recover 
their losses from the third party was up to them. = and her father were motivated to find the 
third party to blame, but ultimately, they chose to do that. I think that Aviva have appreciated 
and recognised that, and I think that the £225 they offered was reasonable. If Miss J wants 
to accept that amount, I would expect Aviva to honour that. But I think that Aviva have done 
what they need to under the policy, and so I dont require them to do any more.
 
Miss J had another complaint against Aviva but thats been dealt with separately by this 
service. If Miss J has other issues with Avivas handling of her claim, as the investigator 
explained, she can raise them with Aviva and give them the opportunity to investigate them 
and revert to this service if necessary. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
