DRN-2613953
The complaint
Mr T has complained The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt treat three disputed transactions 
as fraud.
What happened
Mr T got in touch with RBS after he noticed transactions on his account hed not made. 
These were three transactions carried out online on three consecutive days with a 
supermarket. RBS didnt believe the evidence necessarily supported these being fraudulent 
transactions. They didnt follow the pattern generally seen when someone is using card 
details without consent. However they did refund Mr T in full.
Mr T remained unhappy with this outcome. Hed spent time dealing with the fraud claim, 
including having to take time off. He was also concerned that these transactions had cost 
him in additional bank charges. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator believed there wasnt enough evidence to ask RBS to pay Mr T anything 
further.
Mr T disagreed with this outcome. He insisted hed not authorised these transactions which 
had been out of character for him. Hes asked an ombudsman to make a decision on his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive reached the outcome I have.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing 
thats had an impact on the decision Im making here.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by RBS and Mr T. Ive 
also noted the detail in our investigators view of 3 November 2020 but feel no need to rerun 
some of the arguments made there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which drive the 
decision Im making.
The key issue is one of consent. Theres no dispute the proper card details were used to 
authenticate the three disputed transactions. 
Mr T has said he doesnt shop online with this supermarket.
RBS has argued the transactions dont follow a normal fraud pattern. However Id argue they 
dont actually follow the pattern of normal use either. Its certainly not Mr Ts normal use as I 
can see nothing in his statements which indicate this matches his pattern of spend. RBS has 
provided no evidence to show where any online goods were delivered nor any indication 
what was purchased.
Overall based on the evidence, knowing that only the card details and card verification code 
would have been needed, it is possible that these transactions were completed without 
Mr Ts consent. Under the PSRs, the test isnt about what fraud looks like but whether the 
customer made or authorised the transaction. In this case Ive not see enough evidence to 
indicate Mr T definitively made these transactions, or even allowed someone else to use his 
card.
However I have bad news for Mr T. This doesnt mean I believe it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask RBS to do anything further. They refunded all of the money involved in the 
three disputed transactions as a gesture of goodwill. This happened promptly with the 
money being back in his account on 10 March 2020. Mr T had an agreed overdraft at the 
time and I can see a daily charge was levied. But his statements dont show this was down 
to the disputed transactions but rather other transactions he made around this time.
I appreciate Mr T may have spent time investigating what had happened and he was no 
doubt concerned about this. But generally unless there are other factors involved  and I see 
nothing relevant here  I wouldnt ask a bank to provide further compensation just because 
someone is a victim of fraud. Im therefore not going to ask RBS to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ts complaint against The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman