DRN-2127683
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain on behalf of their business, which Ill call E, that Cornish Mutual 
Assurance Company Limited has limited the livestock cover under its farm insurance policy, 
when it came up for renewal in March 2019. It was only told of this a matter of days before 
renewal was due. 
E would like cover reinstated to what it was previously. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Es insurance is annually renewable. The cost, extent of cover and any limitations, 
endorsements or exclusions are decided before renewal.
An insurer can decide whether or not it wants to insure a risk, in the same way a 
policyholder can decide to shop around and buy their insurance elsewhere. 
Cornish Mutual has decided, because of Es claims history, that it will only provide 
cover for livestock on a limited basis. I appreciate E is a long standing customer, but 
thats a decision its entitled to make, and not something this office would generally 
interfere with. 
Mr and Mrs Q say they werent given sufficient notice of the change to enable them 
to look for cover elsewhere. Cornish Mutual agrees it should have provided more 
notice, the renewal was sent on 25 March when cover was due to renew on 1 April, 
just a few days later. It also says it should have offered an extension in cover, to 
enable changes in arrangements to be made. I agree that such steps would have 
been warranted given the change in cover offered.  
I find the £100 Cornish Mutual has offered to be fair reflection of the inconvenience E 
was put to as a result of the late notification of a change in cover. It is open to E to 
seek cover elsewhere if this policy no longer meets its needs.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is Cornish Mutual Assurance Company Limited has 
already fairly resolved this complaint. I require to pay E £100 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman