DRN-2737429
The complaint
Mr M complains that FCE Bank plc, trading as Ford Credit, wont reimburse him for the cost 
of a replacement clutch for a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement with Ford Credit that he 
signed in December 2015. The car was juddering in November 2019 so he took it to a 
manufacturers dealer. A diagnostic test was completed which identified an issue with the 
clutch and a replacement clutch was recommended. The cars warranty had expired so Mr M 
paid £1,156.72 for the clutch to be replaced and he complained to Ford Credit.
It said that it wasnt believed that this was a known issue and, as the car was no longer 
covered under the warranty, Mr M was liable for any repairs. It said that the issue had 
appeared 47 months and 26,000 mites after purchase so it was unlikely that the issue with 
the clutch was present during the sales process. Mr M wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He didnt believe that 
the car was of satisfactory quality or that a reasonable person would expect a clutch to have 
to be replaced at roughly 26,000 miles. He didnt agree with Ford Credit that juddering with 
the gearbox wasnt a known issue and he recommended that it should pay Mr M £1,156.72 
to cover the cost of the repair to the clutch.
Ford Credit has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that 
there was a warranty extension for the clutch on some cars that were manufactured between 
January 2012 and July 2013 but Mr Ms car was manufactured in November 2015 so didnt 
fall into the range for the extension. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ford Credit, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr M was a new car and I consider that it was 
reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even minor defects;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement that he signed in 
December 2015 and the issue with the clutch was identified in November 2019  
nearly four years later  but the car had only been driven for 26,910 miles at that time 
and I dont consider that its reasonable to expect that a clutch of that age and 
mileage would need to be replaced;
theres clearly been an issue with some cars from this manufacturer when the clutch 
causes the car to judder which has been acknowledged by the manufacturer and it 
has produced a modified clutch to fix that issue and has provided a warranty 
extension for some cars;
that warranty extension doesnt apply to Mr Ms car and his warranty has expired but 
I consider it to be more likely than not that the clutch on his car was affected by that 
same issue - which caused it to not be as durable as it was reasonable for him to 
expect it to be and that, for that reason, the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to him; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Ford Credit to 
pay £1,156.72 to Mr M to reimburse him for the cost of the repair and to pay interest 
on that amount.
Putting things right
Mr M paid £1,156.72 in November 2019 for the cars clutch to be replaced. I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Ford Credit to reimburse him for that 
amount, with interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order FCE Bank plc, trading as Ford 
Credit, to:
1. Pay £1,156.72 to Mr M to reimburse him for the cost of the repair.
2. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Ford Credit to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Ford Credit must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman