DRN-2213976
The complaint
Miss G and Mr G have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund them £200 
after a cash machine failed to dispense their money.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr G transferred £200 into his joint account with Miss G. After which, 
using Miss Gs debit card he tried to withdraw £200, from a cash machine at a petrol station. 
The cash machine was owned by another provider, who Ill refer to as C.
Mr G says the machine returned the card but did not dispense any money and the screen 
returned to the new customer start screen. He made three further attempts to withdraw the 
money. He incorrectly entered the PIN on one occasion, and for the other two, received a 
message to say insufficient funds were available. He reported the matter to the petrol station 
clerk, who he says told him that he was one of four people who had reported a similar 
problem. Mr G says when he checked the account balance, he saw £200 had been debited. 
When the matter was raised with Lloyds, it investigated what had happened with C. In the 
meantime, it credited the account with the disputed amount. But ultimately based on the 
information provided by C, it concluded that the money had been correctly dispensed and 
re-debited the account. 
Miss G and Mr G amongst other things complained to Lloyds about its decision to re-debit 
the disputed amount. Lloyds reconfirmed in its final response that its decision was correct. 
Unhappy with this Mr G referred this part of their complaint to this service. In summary, he 
said he didnt agree with Lloyds debiting the account as he did not receive the money. He 
believes CCTV should have been requested by Lloyds as it wouldve shown the funds were 
not dispensed. He doesnt believe a cash machine report is proof that he received the 
funds. He wants Lloyds to refund the £200.  
One of our investigators looked into Miss G and Mr Gs concerns. She concluded that the 
£200 was correctly dispensed by the cash machine and therefore Lloyds were correct to 
re-debit this amount. She didnt think Lloyds needed to provide Miss G and Mr G with a 
refund. Mr G didnt agree and asked for a final decision, so the complaint has been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached broadly the same view as the investigator did, and 
for similar reasons. 
I understand that Mr G is upset and feels strongly about this incident. He is adamant the 
cash machine did not dispense the money hed requested. Ive listened to what Mr G says, 
about the stress, anxiety and financial difficulties he has faced as a result of Lloyds            
re-debiting the temporary credit. But I have to look at all the evidence available to me when 
reaching my decision about whether or not Lloyds actions were fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And Im afraid it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to 
uphold a complaint based solely on a Mr Gs testimony if, on balance, the evidence suggests 
otherwise. 
Firstly, Lloyds have provided evidence it obtained from C, who reported there werent any 
issues with the machine and indicated that the first attempt to withdraw £200 was successful 
and Mr Gs cash was dispensed. The balance of the machine similarly suggested that the 
money was dispensed when he initially requested it. Whilst I acknowledge there was a small 
£10 discrepancy in the cash machine balance records  if Mr Gs cash didnt dispense and 
there was an issue with the machine as he has suggested I would expect the discrepancy in 
the machine balance to be rather more than £10. So Im persuaded, on balance, taking all 
the technical evidence and wider circumstances into consideration Mr Gs money was 
dispensed when he requested it.  
I know Mr G believes CCTV evidence would be able to confirm exactly what happened. 
However, in circumstances such as these I also wouldnt ordinarily expect Lloyds to be 
responsible for gathering CCTV evidence from a cash machine they dont own. And I think 
its worth mentioning CCTV doesnt always show the detail wed need to help us, and it 
would be wrong to make any assumptions about what it might or might not have shown.
Finally, Mr G has asked why he would try to make further withdrawal attempts of £200 if he 
had already received the money. Its not really for me to speculate on the reasons for Mr Gs 
actions; Im satisfied however that Miss Gs genuine card and PIN were entered, and the 
cash machine did correctly dispense £200. So it follows that Lloyds were therefore entitled to 
debit the account with that sum.
I realise this will be disappointing to Miss G and Mr G but for the reasons Ive explained 
above I dont think Lloyds need to do anymore here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman