DRN-3235514
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service provided by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
when he made a claim on his home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts about what happened arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for 
my decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for largely the 
same reasons. 
The core of the dispute here is if Mr S relied on the information provided to him in the call 
with RSA about the reimbursement of £500 to purchase a new boiler. There is no dispute 
that things could have been communicated better during the claim process, but I need to be 
satisfied that this was the sole reason Mr S decided to replace his boiler. 
The terms of the policy are clear in respect of maintaining the boiler, they say:
ANNUAL SERVICING OF THE MAIN HEATING SYSTEM
Loss of heating as a result of complete failure or breakdown of the main heating 
system unless the main heating system has been maintained by a registered 
tradesman providing certification or other proof of service within the last 12 months.
I think its clear that the policy terms set out the policy doesnt provide cover in a situation 
where the boiler isnt serviced or maintained. I also think Mr S was aware of the need to 
ensure his boiler was maintained in line with the terms. I say this because I have seen a 
service record for Mr Ss boiler, and I can see it was being serviced annually up to 2017.    
Mr S said the boiler was also serviced in 2018 but this was not recorded. The following year 
the service was missed due to the engineer not attending and Mr S not getting around to 
arranging another engineer. And it was also missed in 2020 due to the pandemic. 
So I think it wouldnt have been unreasonable for RSA to have decided not to cover the 
claim from the beginning when Mr S reported a fault with the boiler in November 2020. I can 
see from RSAs notes an engineer visited Mr S on three occasions to try and repair the 
issues, even though the boiler didnt meet the servicing term in the policy. It was eventually 
decided by RSA that the boiler was beyond economical repair. So I dont think RSA acted 
unfairly in the way it dealt with Mr Ss claim for the repair of the boiler. 
Mr S was aware of the issues with the boiler and initially queried why it was regarded as 
beyond economical repair. He was told it was considered beyond economical repair due to 
the lack of maintenance and servicing. In the call with RSA, Mr S questioned if he would still 
be entitled to the contribution even though he didnt have the right service history, so it 
seems he was aware not having maintained the boiler could have an impact on his claim. 
I note Mr S was given the incorrect information during the call to say there would be a 
contribution from RSA and this may have played a part in him deciding to replace the boiler 
rather than repair it, but I dont think this was the main reason. The engineer reported that 
due to the level of rust and dirt in the system, which indicated the poor maintenance and 
service of the boiler, it didnt make a repair a sensible option. Also any repair to the boiler 
after it was deemed beyond economical repair would have meant Mr S would no longer be 
covered under the policy. 
So, I think Mr S decided to replace the boiler due to the ongoing issues he was having with it 
rather than solely because RSA had said it would contribute towards a new boiler. 
As I mentioned things could have been communicated better to Mr S during the claim. RSA 
have acknowledged that it shouldnt have said it would contribute towards Mr Ss new boiler 
as he didnt meet the servicing and maintenance requirement under the policy. RSA have 
offered Mr S £25 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Ive noted that RSA did send out an engineer on a number of occasions when it didnt need 
to and it is ultimately Mr S who will have benefitted from the new boiler and the continued 
coverage the policy would provide. Ive thought about the impact of this on Mr S overall and I 
recognise the experience would have been frustrating for him. But awards for distress and 
inconvenience from this service are generally modest. It isnt the role of this service to 
punish businesses. So I think the amount offered is fair and generally in line with amounts 
awarded by this service for similar cases.
I understand Mr S will likely be disappointed with my findings. But, in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied RSAs offer of compensation is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £25 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay Mr S £25 if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman