DRN-3084119
The complaint
Mr M complains that N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance irresponsibly 
granted him a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2016, Mr M acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Northridge Finance. He paid a cash deposit of £200 towards the car along with a contribution 
of £150 from a part exchange. Mr M was required to make an initial monthly payment of 
£295 followed by 58 monthly payments of £145 and a final payment of £295. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £9,345.
Mr M says that Northridge Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if 
it had, it would have seen he was gambling, and the agreement wasnt affordable. 
Northridge Finance didnt agree. It said that it carried out a credit check and gathered 
information on Mr Ms employment and that Mr M was automatically approved.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Northridge Finance 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr M didnt agree and said that he was working under a zero hours contract and his income 
and expenses werent checked.  
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Northridge Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
From the information provided, while Northridge Finance gathered information about Mr Ms 
employment it didnt ask him for his income prior to lending. Without any understanding of 
what Mr M was earning, I dont think it was possible for Northridge Finance to make a fair 
assessment of Mr Ms ability to afford the repayments without undue difficulty. 
I also think that Mr M should have been asked about his expenditure. Although Northridge 
Finance has said it completed a credit check, this wont have indicated what Mr Ms regular 
living expenses were. Without knowing what Mr Ms regular committed expenditure was 
Northridge Finance wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement 
was affordable or not. 
Overall, I dont find that Northridge Finance completed proportionate checks. 
I think it would have been proportionate for Northridge Finance to have asked Mr M what his 
income was. Mr M has explained that he was employed on a zero hours contract and so his 
monthly income varied. He has given different estimates of his earnings at the time. Ive 
seen from Mr Ms bank statements in the months leading up to the loan that his income was 
£564 in October, £721 in November and £875 in December. Therefore, an average income 
for the three months would have been around £720. I think its likely Northridge Finance 
would have discovered this to be his income had it asked. 
I cant be certain what Mr M would have told Northridge Finance had it asked about his 
regular expenditure. I dont think Northridge Finance needed to request bank statements and 
so I dont think it would have discovered at this time that Mr M was gambling. But in the 
absence of anything else, Ive placed considered the information contained in Mr Ms 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Mr M was living with his parents at the time and has explained we was paying £120 a month 
for rent, £100 for food and rent and also £105 for car insurance. The credit repot he has 
provided showed he was making payments of £54 a month for a loan which settled the 
month after the hire purchase was provided. At the time his income appeared to be £720. 
Taking these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable to Mr M. 
For this reason, Im not persuaded that Northridge Finance acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
Mr M also said that he wasnt provided with an option to partially settle his agreement and so 
had to settle it in full which led to further financial consequences. Northridge Finance says it 
has no record of Mr M requesting this and Mr M hasnt been able to provide anything to 
support this, therefore I do not have evidence to say he was treated unfairly regarding this 
issue.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman