DRN-3070872
The complaint
Mr H complains that Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IB) failed to correctly execute a 
combination risk reversal options trade he placed. He believes that the call part of the trade 
wasnt executed at the best price, as IB routed it to a different exchange. He says this was 
incorrect and led to loss of $445.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr H placed the trade in question in Adidas stock, to buy 1 ADS-COMB 
consisting of a combination of a buy of one option contract of ADS 18DEC20 180.0 Put with 
a sell of one option contract of ADS 18DEC20 220.0 Call.
Mr H says that when he placed the trade the put was quoted at $7.20 and the call at $29.25, 
so a difference of 22.05. He says he set a limit of 23, with an expectation of execution at 
around a difference of 22. However, once submitted, the trade executed immediately, with 
the put at the expected $7.20, but the call at -$24.80, resulting in a difference of -17.60. 
As a single option contract was worth 100 shares, this execution led to a credit on Mr Hs 
account of $1,760. But he said he had expected to receive an amount that reflected the call 
side executing at, or around, the indicative $29.25, so a higher credit of $2,205, which is 
where his claim for around $445 comes from. 
IB looked into Mr Hs complaint but concluded the trade had been executed correctly. It 
explained that this type of trade was executed on a separate book, as explained on its 
website, and also as a single trade, not two distinct trades as Mr H had believed was the 
case. 
As such, the limit of 23 that Mr H had set was for the ratio of the put purchase price paid 
and amount received as the call sale price. The limit of 23 was not, as Mr H appeared to 
understand, a limit on one part of the trade. 
So, as Mr H set a single limit price as a positive 23, this had indicated that he wanted the 
trade to execute at a ratio better than (ie less than) 23 points between the put price and call 
price. In other words, any trade that led to him owing less than $2,300 (or receiving a credit, 
as actually transpired) would be within the limit hed set. 
IB added that it was possible Mr H had intended to set a limit of minus 23. But it pointed out 
that if he had done, based on the indicative prices that showed a difference of minus 22.05, 
the trade wouldnt have executed in any event as minus 22.05 was greater that minus 23.  
Mr H referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusions as IB. He was satisfied the order as submitted by Mr H had been correctly 
executed. He said, in brief:
IB provided information that made clear this type of combination risk reversal options 
trade would be executed on a separate book, and this was also explained in IBs 
Knowledge Base on its website.
It was reasonable to conclude that if Mr H had been under the impression there 
would be two separate trades, then two limits wouldve been required (although he 
accepted that Mr H may have simply have wished to set a limit on the call side).
Regardless of Mr Hs actual intention, the order was submitted with a limit that meant 
he would not have to pay out more than $2,300. As the trade resulted in him instead 
receiving $1,760, the execution was consistent with the limit as set.
As IB had highlighted, if Mr H had set the limit as minus 23, the trade wouldnt have 
executed. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view. He said, in brief, that he felt IB had invented a 
price on a different book that he wasnt aware of and further, it may have traded internally to 
his disadvantage. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. As such theres little I can usefully add to whats already been said.  
It appears that Mr Hs complaint is based on a misunderstanding of how the combination 
trade would be executed. I understand why he might have expected the outcome to be as 
hes suggested. But Im satisfied the explanation given by IB as to how the trade actually 
executed is correct.
Information regarding how this this type of trade worked and how associated limits should be 
set was available on IBs website. As an execution-only service, it was Mr Hs responsibility 
to ensure he fully understood the process and what the order as submitted meant. 
I accept that in the context of the indicative pricing at the time of the order a limit of positive 
23 might have seemed unusual, hence the speculation that he may have intended to enter 
minus 23. But there was no requirement on IB to check Mr Hs intention. Providing the trade 
as executed was within the limit as set, which it was, IB was correct to execute it. And 
further, Ive seen nothing that supports Mr H suggestion that the trade was executed 
internally, or in any other manner contrary to the information provided on its website. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman