DRN-1103684
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G say that Bank of Scotland, (trading as Halifax), mis-sold them a monthly-
premium payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G bought the PPI during a meeting in 2001, at the same time as taking out a 
secured personal loan. The loan was in their joint names, but the policy only covered Mr G.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the compliant should be upheld. As Mr and Mrs G 
disagreed, the matter has come to me to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs G say that they didnt know they had the PPI. And if they had been made 
aware of it, it would have been a condition for the loan application. But having reviewed 
all the information Ive been given, I think that that they knew that they had the insurance 
and that they chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen a sample of the loan 
application form that they would have needed to complete. This had a section in it 
dealing with PPI which had two equally prominent boxes in it. One box was to accept the 
offer of PPI and the other to decline it. Mr and Mrs G would have needed to sign one or 
other of these boxes. Because of the time that has passed, Halifax no longer has a copy 
of Mr and Mrs Gs completed application. But I have seen their signed loan agreement. 
This too has a section dealing with PPI. And there is a cross in the box confirming they 
wanted PPI - whereas the equally prominent box declining the insurance has been left 
blank. Like the rest of the form, except for the signatures and witness details, the form 
has been printed. But Im satisfied that it was printed this way in line with what Mr and 
Mrs G had said on their loan application and / or in their discussions with Halifax. They 
would also have had the chance to review the form before signing it. On the evidence I 
have, and without any details of what Halifax may have said or done in the meeting to 
make Mr and Mrs G think that taking PPI was necessary if they were to get their loan, Im 
satisfied that the documentation made the optionality of taking it clear. Because it was so 
long ago, I can understand why Mr and Mrs G no longer remember what happened 
during the meeting.
Halifax says that it advised Mr and Mrs G to take the policy. This means that it needed to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that the policy was suitable for them. I dont know what 
steps Halifax took. But in any event Im satisfied that it was suitable. I say this because 
from what I know about their circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of 
the PPI:
oMr G was eligible for the policy. This means that he satisfied the necessary 
qualifications to take it out. For instance the policy required him to be in work and 
to be between the ages of 18 and 65, both of which he was;
oMr G wasnt affected by any of the main limitations and restrictions of the policy  
such as those affecting someone within a pre-existing medical condition;
oMr G says and that he and Mrs G has life insurance and were entitled to some 
sick pay from their respective employers. But life insurance pays out in quite 
different circumstances from PPI. And, following a successful claim, the policy 
would have paid Mr and Mrs Gs monthly loan payments for up to 12 months in 
the case of his becoming voluntarily unemployed. And for up to five years in the 
case of him being off work because of accident or sickness. Both periods are 
longer than the periods that would have been covered by Mr Gs employment 
entitlements. And the payments would have been made in addition to such 
entitlements, leaving the latter available to help meet Mr and Mrs Gs other 
expenses while he was not working. So I think that the PPI could have been of 
use to Mr and Mrs G;
oThe type of policy offered to Mr and Mrs G only covered the person first-named 
on the loan agreement. And I havent seen anything to suggest that it was 
unreasonable only to cover Mr G;
oThe policy initially cost about £19 a month. And Mr and Mrs Gs monthly loan 
payments were about £190. I find that this means that the PPI was competitively 
priced by reference to other similar polices available in the market at the time. 
And I havent seen anything to suggest that it was unaffordable for them. In any 
event, had they later felt that it was unaffordable or that they no longer wanted it, 
they could have cancelled the policy at any time without further cost as it was 
paid for monthly;
The signed loan agreement showed the initial cost of the policy. But its possible that 
Halifax didnt tell Mr and Mrs G everything else it ought to have done. For instance, 
that they would have had to continue paying the premiums during a claim. But, 
having concluded that the policy was suitable, and that Mr and Mrs G appeared to 
have wanted this type of cover, I dont think that clearer information would have 
changed their minds and stopped them taking it.
This means that Mr and Mrs G havent lost out because of anything that Halifax may 
have done wrong during the sale. So theres nothing I require it to put right.
In response to our adjudicators view, Mr and Mrs G told us about other PPI products 
they had taken out. But Im required to decide this complaint on its own facts and 
surrounding circumstances, without considering what might have happened in respect of 
other polices. This is what I have done.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman