DRN-3660482
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund money he lost to what he 
describes as an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr P has explained that in 2020, he made the following payments to Rodeler (trading as 
24option) from his Nationwide account, using his credit card, for what he thought was a 
legitimate investment.
Transaction number Date Amount (£)
1 7 April 2020 500
2 9 April 2020 5,000
3 10 April 2020 10,000
Total 15,500
Mr P also paid 24option from other bank accounts he held with different providers and in 
total paid them over £120,000. But Im only considering the Nationwide payments as part of 
this decision. 
When Mr P subsequently got in touch with Nationwide to explain hed been scammed, 
Nationwide didnt reimburse his lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Mr P referred his complaint 
about Nationwide to this service. As our investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally 
the case was passed to me for a decision. 
On 25 November 2022, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ps complaint on the 
basis that Nationwide is liable to him under s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set out 
what the Act actually says: 
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
The concept of a like claim is that the factual foundation of the claims against the supplier 
and the lender are identical and as a result in the same liability being owed to the debtor by 
both.
Ive seen a settlement agreement titled a Confidential Settlement and Release of Claims 
and/or Inquiries dated as of 19 May 2020 (the Agreement) between Mr P and 24option. The 
recitals to the Agreement state that Mr P submitted an Inquiry dated 19 May 2020, which 
Ive not seen. This presumably contains his complaint against 24option. They go on to 
record that 24option provided Mr P its feedback and views, and again Ive not seen these 
responses. It is then recited that both sides wish to avoid any conflict and/or dispute in 
relation to the claims, statements and inquiries and they wish to settle the dispute between 
them on the terms of the Agreement. 
Then, under the operative terms of the Agreement 24option agrees to credit Mr Ps trading 
account with €10,000 for Mr P to immediately withdraw (Clause 1). Mr P agrees to withdraw 
and remove the Inquiry submitted against the Company (Clause 2). This is to take place by 
Mr P signing and delivering to 24option and competent authorities a waiver in the form of 
Appendix 1 to the Agreement (Clause 3). The waiver states that Mr P would like to inform 
the recipient that:
my inquiry with regard to my trading experience with Rodeler has been duly 
resolved as I have been provided with comprehensive information and explanations. 
The Company, is willing to refund the amount of 10,0000 GBP to my trading account 
and I am fully aware and understand that the said amount is refunded on an ex gratia 
basis and does not constitute an admission of any legal and/or other liability on the 
Companys behalf.
As a result, I confirm that, I no longer have any disputes against the Company. 
Clause 4 requires that Mr P sign a confirmation of debit/credit card deposits in the form of 
Appendix 2. This lists a number of deposits, giving their respective dates and time, the card, 
and their amount and the statement that Mr P made the deposit and received the services 
purchased through these transactions as intended. For the avoidance of doubt, Ive seen 
that it includes the list of Nationwide payments currently in dispute. It concludes with the 
sentence that Mr P has no deposit disputes with the Company.
At Clause 8 it is provided:
The Trader [i.e. Mr P] agrees to waive all claims, statements and/or inquiries, 
referred to in this Agreement, against the Company and to release and forever 
discharge the Company from any and all liability for any claims and/or inquiries 
and/or damages of any kind, whether or not presently known to the Parties, which the 
Trader may have against the Company as of the date of execution of this Agreement.
And at Clause 9 it is provided:
The Trader agrees not to sue, commence, voluntarily aid in any way, prosecute or 
cause to be commenced or prosecuted against the Company any action, suit or other 
proceeding concerning the Inquiry and/or any other claims and/or inquiries, whether 
or not presently known to the Parties, in this jurisdiction or any other. 
The Agreement is to be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of Cyprus. 
And the parties irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Cypriot courts. (Clause 
14). Ive further seen that Mr P submitted his complaint to The Financial Ombudsman in Cyprus 
however it terminated its consideration of his complaint on 17 June 2021 stating:
We have been adequately informed that you have reached an agreement with 
Rodeler Ltd on 21st of May 2020 and you have received the amount of EUR 10.000- 
as a full and final settlement of your complaint.
   
In an email dated 1 August 2022 to our investigator, Mr P said he received the payment of 
€10,000.
I think this is an agreement under which the parties fixed the amount of Mr Ps loss and paid 
it. The effect of the waiver in Appendix 1 is that Mr P confirms the matters dealt with in the 
Inquiry have been resolved to his satisfaction by the ex gratia payment of €10,000 and that, 
as a result, he no longer has any dispute with the Company in relation to those matters. That 
doesnt seem to me to leave any room for Mr P now to allege that he still has unsatisfied 
losses incurred as a result of the Companys breaches of contract or misrepresentations. 
The same can be said of the confirmation in Appendix 2. This seems to me to acknowledge 
that Mr P received from the Company the services he was entitled to in return for the various 
Visa and Mastercard payments there listed. Again, that confirmation is quite inconsistent 
with an assertion that he remains out of pocket for an amount of actionable damages caused 
to him by the Company as a result of making those deposit payments and/or not duly 
receiving the services for which they were paid.
It is concerning that Mr P did not volunteer the fact that he had entered into the Agreement, 
nor does he appear to have given credit for the sums paid to him under it, when he brought 
his complaints and referred them to our service. 
It would seem that the contents of Appendix 1 and 2 dont leave him with any unrecovered 
losses from his trading account that Mr P can assert amount to actionable damages payable 
under s.75. And so, I dont think Mr P has grounds to make a valid s.75 claim in light of the 
Agreement. 
Chargeback 
Chargeback claims are designed to settle unresolved disputes between the cardholder (in 
this case Mr P) and the merchant (in this case 24option). When Mr P approached 
Nationwide for assistance with recovering his payments to 24option, he had already signed 
The Agreement and received the settlement payment. Whilst it doesnt appear that Mr P 
brought the Agreement to Nationwides attention at the time he complained, I dont think 
chargeback would have been an option for him as hed already settled his dispute with 
24option. 
Prevention
Having decided the above, I can only uphold this complaint if I think Nationwide reasonably 
ought to have prevented some or all of Mr Ps payments to 24option in the first place  
therefore preventing his loss or part of it.
Its common ground that Mr P authorised the payments in dispute here. So although he now 
alleges the payments were sent to a scammer, Mr P is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Having carefully considered this, Im not persuaded that Nationwide could have reasonably 
known, at the relevant time, that 24option was operating an alleged scam. I say this because 
at the relevant time, 24option was regulated in a jurisdiction outside the UK, and it would be 
highly unusual for those operating a scam to agree to comply with the requirements of 
regulation. It also had passporting rights through the FCA to offer services to UK customers. 
So, I dont think the fact Mr P was paying 24option, ought to have been of a concern to 
Nationwide. Ive therefore thought about whether there may have been any other reason for 
Nationwide to potentially have concerns. 
I dont think payment one was unusual. This was for a low amount and it didnt appear 
suspicious. 
Whilst payment two was £5,000  a large amount of money, Mr P didnt tend to use his 
credit card account often enough to build up a picture of what normal account usage looked 
like for him. I have seen that he used his credit card abroad in 2019 and made some larger 
purchases in Euros. This payment didnt utilise the entire credit limit and rather about 33% of 
it, so I dont think Nationwide ought to have suspected something untoward. 
I think payment three was unusual, this was for £10,000 and it did utilise all of Mr Ps 
remaining credit limit and it was the largest payment out of the account from the statements 
Ive seen. So I think Nationwide should have spoken with Mr P to check that all was well, 
before agreeing to send this payment.
Im not persuaded this intervention would have made a difference. I say this because, at the 
material time, 24option were a legitimate regulated company and common characteristics of 
investment fraudsters (then and now) included the absence of any regulation as the starting 
position. So, I would have expected Nationwide to first understand who it was that Mr P was 
dealing with and that this was a genuine company. I think Nationwide would have identified 
that Mr P was paying a regulated company for investment purposes and whilst the type of 
investment might have been high risk  Nationwide had no duty to provide Mr P with 
investment advice. Ive also not seen any evidence to suggest that Nationwide prohibited 
payments towards investments  even from a credit card. 
On balance, after learning Mr P was dealing with a regulated company, I dont think 
Nationwide would have had any reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam was taking 
place and therefore warn Mr P. I also have to highlight that the FCA didnt provide insight 
into its concerns about 24option until it published its supervisory notice (on 28 May 2020) 
and subsequently took the decision to remove 24options passporting rights (on 1 June 
2020)  these notices and decisions were made after Mr P made all of his payments. I 
therefore dont think its reasonable to conclude that Nationwide could have known about the 
practices of 24option before its regulator published this information.  Overall, whilst I agree that Nationwide didnt do what it ought to have done by intervening in 
Mr Ps third payment to 24option, I dont find that it was the primary cause of Mr Ps loss. In 
other words, I dont think it could have prevented Mr P from making the payment to 24option, 
nor do I think there was any indication that Mr P had fallen victim to a fraud or scam at the 
material time, such that I would make an award against Nationwide. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Nationwide replied to my provisional findings advising it accepted them and had nothing 
further to add. 
Mr P didnt reply to my provisional findings, despite our investigator chasing a response, so I 
assume he has nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties didnt have any further comments to add, I see no reason to depart from what 
Ive said.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that, for the reasons I explained in my provisional findings (repeated 
above), I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman