DRN-4128714
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that ClearBank Limited trading as Tide (Tide) 
wont refund the money it lost in a scam.
Mr S, who is a director of T, brings this complaint on Ts behalf. 
What happened
What Mr S, on behalf of T, says
Mr S says that on 8 June 2022, while he was working, he received a call from someone who 
said they were calling from Tide. The caller said there were some irregular attempted 
payments to known companies and asked if Mr S had made them. He confirmed that he 
hadnt. Mr S received a further call later that day from the same number to say Ts account 
would be frozen while Tide monitored the account overnight.
The following day Mr S received a message on the same thread hed received messages 
from Tide since 2019 saying FRAUD ALERT: Your account review has been successfully 
completed, an advisor will be giving you a call shortly regarding the details. Very soon after, 
Mr S received a call from the same Tide number as before. The caller told him Ts account 
had been breached and he needed to transfer funds to a new account to keep them safe. On 
the instructions of the caller Mr S made the following payments from Ts account to the 
account details he was provided with:
Date Time Amount
09/06/22 19:23 £40,000
09/06/22 19:55 £25,000
09/06/22 20:00 £13,644
09/06/22 20:26 £13,860.98
Mr S says that shortly after making the transactions he became concerned and emailed Tide 
at 20.54  just over 30 minutes after completing the last transaction  to say he thought he 
might have been scammed. He also contacted Tide through its in-app chat at 21.34 but 
didnt receive a response until the next day. 
Tide was able to return the payments of £25,000 and £13,644 to T. Mr S says the other two 
payments were made to Tide accounts but havent been recovered.
What Tide say
Tide noted that it hasnt signed up to the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code), so it doesnt apply. It went on to say that it should 
contact the payee bank promptly to try to recover the funds but didnt do so as quickly as it 
could and didnt respond to some of Mr Ss queries in good time. In recognition of these 
factors Tide offered T £200.
Mr S wasnt happy with Tides response and brought a complaint to our service. He says he 
doesnt understand how Tide can acknowledge failures in their process to recover funds but 
still not reimburse the transactions. He also says Tide should have intervened as the 
payments were unusual and that the service Tide provided him with was poor. Mr S says his 
business went through a difficult time during the pandemic and the success of it is 
dependent on recovering the funds T lost in the scam. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in full. She 
said that Tide should have intervened and asked questions about the payments as they 
were unusual and out of character. This was particularly so given the payment reference for 
the first £40,000 payment was a fast-food takeaway. Tide should also have provided 
warnings and explained what number spoofing is. Had it done so, Mr S would have provided 
honest answers and the scam would have been uncovered. The investigator thought the 
payment made to reflect the poor service provided was fair. 
Mr S agreed with the investigators findings, but Tide didnt. It referred to the fact the 
investigators view was based on hindsight. In summary, Tide said:
- The payments werent unusual, and its transaction monitoring systems didnt flag 
them. A payment of over £30,000 was made shortly before in May 2022 and, after 
the first payment of £40,000, future scam payments were for less than this figure. 
There was a high velocity of payments from the account and there were also large 
credits into the account.
- The payment reference need not have related to the takeaway  it could have been 
initials or another company.
- It only provides business accounts and given the nature of Mr Ss business 
(commercial building construction) large payments are commonplace. 
- T was strongly affected by the pandemic. After it, spending on the account increased 
considerably. 
- Between September 2019 and June 2022, 79 new payees were created and over a 
thousand payments were made to those payees. Setting up a new payee wasnt 
unusual, and neither were one-time payments to new payees. 
- Tide provided links to a blog and other sources available to Mr S which provided 
scam advice. It went on to say Mr S had reported minor fraud in the past and so was 
aware of the possibility of being scammed. 
- Even if Tide had called or messaged Mr S its unlikely it would have made a 
difference as Mr S was on the phone to scammers when making the payments. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make. I have taken that into account when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Tide should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Tide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
T/Mr S when the payment requests were made, or whether it should have done more than it 
did. I have considered the position carefully.
Did Tide act fairly and reasonably when it made the payments?
Having considered Ts account activity for the 12-month period before the scam I agree with 
the investigator that the first scam payment was so unusual and uncharacteristic that Tide 
should have stopped it and intervened to ask Mr S some questions about it. 
Ive taken into account that this was a business account and of all the comments made by 
Tide. But I think the payment was so significant compared with Ts usual account activity that 
Tide needed to do more. The largest payment from the account before this was for just over 
£31,000 and this payment was out of character with previous transactions which were much 
lower in value. So whilst Ts business was one that might be associated with high value 
payments like the £40,000 scam payment, this hadnt been the case for T. Im also not 
persuaded that the fact T received high value credits means Tide ought not to have had 
concerns. Tide did nothing to warn Mr S of scam risks during the payment journey. I dont 
consider the scam information in blogs and other areas referenced by Tide went far enough. 
My findings in respect of the first scam payment mean that I dont need to consider 
subsequent payments. But as the payments increased and Ts balance was depleted in line 
with a safe account scam, I think there was even more reason for Tide to satisfy itself Mr S 
wasnt the victim of a scam.
Ive thought about what would have happened if Tide had intervened as I think it should. I 
cant see that Mr S was given a cover story or told he was helping to catch fraudsters so I 
think hed have been honest about what happened, and the scam would have rapidly been 
uncovered. And whilst I wouldnt expect Tide to scrutinise the reference, once the payment 
was discussed I think Tide should have asked about it. Tide said to this service that a 
payment of £40,000 to a potential fast food restaurant seems unusual. 
I note that Tide has suggested that as Mr S was on the phone to scammers it wouldnt have 
been able to speak to him. But Tide should have held the payment until it was able to speak 
to Mr S or until it got a response in its chat. The fact that Mr S didnt respond to a previous 
message doesnt absolve Tide of its responsibilities. 
Ive considered whether Mr S, on behalf of T, should bear some responsibility for the loss. I 
dont think there should be a deduction though. I say this because Mr S was called from a 
spoofed number and received a text from the scammer in the usual Tide thread saying he 
would receive a call. I think these factors are very persuasive, particularly in the absence of 
any warnings about what safe account scams like this one look and feel like. When Mr S 
received the call hed been advised to expect, he was taken through security as hed expect. 
Im also aware that scams of this nature are designed to make victims panic and move funds 
quickly to protect them  which is what happened here.  Recovery
Because Im asking Tide to refund Ts losses in full, I dont need to consider the recovery of 
Ts funds. But part of Mr Ss complaint related to the service he was provided with when he 
reported the scam and the time taken for Tide to take action, so Ive looked into these 
aspects of his complaint. 
I can see that Mr S sent an email to Tide at 20:54 on the day the scam payments were made 
in which he said he thought he might have been scammed and was on hold on a call. He 
asked if the telephone number hed been called from was Tides and for a call back. Mr S 
didnt receive a call that night, but Tide acknowledged Mr Ss email and asked him to contact 
Tide via the chat in the app at 05:10 the following day. 
I dont think Mr S was reporting the scam when he emailed, as he wasnt sure if hed been 
scammed. But its clear he needed support that he didnt get. Mr S contacted Tide via its 
chat at 21:43 saying he had an emergency and wanted to report fraud. At 22:15 Tide said 
there may be a delay in its response time and then at 07:12 the following morning Mr S was 
asked to provide details of the transactions that were fraudulent. The information was sent at 
08:10 and the receiving accounts were blocked soon after. I dont think this was good 
enough and think Tides failures made the recovery of Ts funds more difficult and added to 
the inconvenience T suffered.
Very soon after Mr S made the £40,000 payment the funds were removed from the receiving 
account so I dont think it would have made a difference if Tide had acted more promptly  
as I think it should have. But the position was different in respect of the other payment that 
wasnt returned (£13,860.98). The majority of these funds were removed overnight, which 
could have been avoided if Tide had acted with more urgency. 
T is a different legal entity to Mr S, so I cant make an award to T for Mr Ss distress (and T 
cant suffer distress). I can only consider an award for the additional inconvenience Tides 
actions have caused. Im satisfied the £200 payment Tide has already offered fairly reflects 
this and am not awarding any more. If Tide hasnt made this payment, it should do so now.
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I require ClearBank Ltd to:
- Pay T £53,860.98;
- Pay interest on the above award at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
the transactions to the date of settlement.
- Pay £200 to T for the inconvenience caused if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman