DRN-3406253
The complaint
Miss D complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint RCI, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss D acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation and says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then RCI, 
who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality 
of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss D. The car here was about 
four years old and had already covered about 57,733 miles. I think a reasonable person 
would therefore expect to find some wear and tear present, but I dont think theyd expect the 
engine to need replacing after only about 16 months of driving.
The relevant legislation explains that when we think about whether goods are of satisfactory 
quality we should also consider if they have been durable. The supplier has confirmed that 
this car has a full-service history so it seems its been serviced in line with the 
manufacturers recommendations and, in those circumstances, I think the engine should last 
significantly longer than it has here. It seems this engine has failed prematurely, and I dont 
think the car has been durable or therefore of satisfactory quality.
Im supported in that view by the suppliers comments. In an email they sent on 16 
November 2021 they explained that there was an internal fault with No.4 cylinder due to a 
manufacture fault. RCI are responsible for the quality of the car when it was supplied, and it 
seems the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at that point because the engine hadnt been 
manufactured correctly.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a car in those 
circumstances. So, RCI should repair the car at no cost to Miss D.
Miss D hasnt been able to drive the car since it broke down (she reported that to RCI on 26 
October 2021) so RCI should refund any finance instalments Miss D has paid since the car 
broke down. Theyll need to add interest to that refund as Miss D has been deprived of the 
money.
Miss D has also had to pay £126 to have the fault diagnosed and to have new spark plugs 
fitted. I think those costs have been incurred as a consequence of the car being of 
unsatisfactory quality. So, RCI should refund those costs, adding interest as Miss D has 
been deprived of that money.
Miss D has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes explained that shes been unable to 
take her son to football; has missed out on job opportunities as a result of not being mobile 
and has not been able to travel to see and look after her mother who lives in another city. 
Shes also had to have the car recovered after it broke down on the motorway. Whilst I 
understand the impact the loss of the car has had on Miss D I think it would be unfair to hold 
RCI completely responsible as some of those issues could have been mitigated to some 
extent through the use of alternative transport. In the circumstances I think there has been 
some distress and inconvenience caused and Im asking RCI to pay Miss D £200 in 
compensation.
Im not asking RCI to refund any recovery costs as these havent been evidenced by Miss D.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell RCI Financial Services 
Limited to:
Repair the car at no cost to Miss D.
Refund any finance instalments paid since the car broke down on 26 October 2021. 
Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.
Refund £126 to cover the cost of spark plugs and the diagnostic. Add 8% simple 
interest per year to that refund from the date of payment (27 October 2021) to the 
date of settlement.
Pay Miss D £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman