DRN-3026074
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (TPF) unfairly 
rejected his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of 
the purchase of a timeshare.  
What happened
In or around February 2002, Mr W entered into a purchase agreement with a company I 
shall refer to as X. The purchase agreement related to membership of a timeshare resort. 
Both the resort and X were located outside of the UK and the European Union (EU).
In February 2003, Mr W made a payment of £313.02 to X using his TPF credit card. Mr W 
says this, together with subsequent amounts, related to mortgage payments in respect of the 
timeshare agreement hed entered into with X.  
In October 2010, Mr W made a complaint to another company Ill call C. I understand this 
company was related to X and involved in the administration and management of the 
timeshare agreement Mr W had entered in to. Mr W said he was told he could exchange his 
timeshare weeks for holidays at other resorts. But hed not been able to do that. He thought 
this was misleading and the product had been mis-sold. He wanted a full refund of around 
US $17,000 being the cost of the apartment allocated to him under the agreement.
C didnt agree the timeshare product had been mis-sold. So, Mr W raised a claim with TPF 
under section 75 of the CCA. In response, TPF said they werent able to consider Mr Ws 
claim as hed made it too late, which Mr W accepted.
In November 2017, Mr W raised a new claim with TPF. He referred to his original claim when 
hed said the timeshare had been fraudulently mis-sold to me in 2002. Mr W based his new 
claim on the Legal Decision that have [sic] been handed down regarding the sale of Time-
share apartments to citizens of the European Union. But TPF again said they werent able 
to consider his claim as it had been made too late. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his claim, Mr W complained to TPF. He didnt think theyd fairly 
dealt with his claim. In Mr Ws opinion, X had committed fraud by not advising him of the 
cooling off period and he suggested that fraud matters had no time limit.
TPF wrote to Mr W in March 2018 and told him they werent able to change their decision. 
They said they had not been able to establish a breach of contract or misrepresentation as 
no details of the contracts were sent to us for review. TPF also said it was more than six 
years since Mr W had made the payment to X, so his claim was time-barred under the 
Limitation Act 1980.
Unhappy with TPFs response, Mr W referred his complaint to this service. He said:
X had misrepresented his ability to use resorts owned or run by W anywhere in the 
world;
the timeshare was fraudulently sold on the grounds it was a perpetuity contract;
the timeshare was sold without a cooling off period; and
he was told the timeshare was an investment that was easy to sell.
One of our investigators considered all the evidence and information available. Having done 
so, she didnt think TPF had done anything wrong. She thought it likely that Mr Ws claims to 
TPF had exceeded the time limits under the Limitation Act and didnt find any other reason to 
uphold his complaint.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators findings. He thought due consideration should be 
given to the exceptional circumstances here as he only first became aware the transaction 
may be fraudulent having consulted with a third party in 2014. He said a Spanish court had 
ruled the In Perpetuity clause was unlawful. He also thought there was no time limit for 
fraud or a fraudulent transaction. He asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
And given the facts of this complaint, one of the most relevant pieces of law is the Limitation 
Act 1980 (LA), because the original transaction took place in 2002 and Mr Ws claims were 
made to TPF in 2010 and 2017. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Mr W says X misrepresented the nature and benefits of the timeshare product he purchased. 
He also says the product was fraudulently sold to him and that subsequent successful legal 
challenges suggest the contract was unlawful. As he made a payment towards the contract 
using his TPF credit card, he could bring a claim under section 75 of the CCA. However, any 
claim made under the CCA is subject to the LA, which sets out periods within which legal 
claims may be made. 
A section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six years from the date 
on which the cause of action accrued. So here, Mr W had to make that claim within six years 
of when he entered into the timeshare agreement  which was in February 2002  because 
that is when he says he lost out having used his credit card after relying upon the alleged 
misrepresentations.
Mr Ws original section 75 claim to TPF was in October 2010. This was more than six years 
after he originally entered into the timeshare agreement. TPF said his claim had been made 
too late and Mr W says he accepted that. 
Mr Ws subsequent claim was made in November 2017. In his letter to TPF, he refers to his 
original claim in 2010 when hed claimed the timeshare was Fraudulently mis-sold to me in 
2002. His new claim was based on what he considered to be new evidence based upon a 
legal decision regarding the sale of timeshares to citizens of the European Union.
Mr Ws arguments are based upon a decision made by a Spanish Court. He hasnt provided 
either TPF or this service with a copy of the original timeshare purchase agreement or 
contract. Ive only seen a document entitled Acknowledgment of Representations signed by 
Mr W and on behalf of X. It isnt clear under which legal jurisdiction the timeshare agreement 
falls, but I think its highly unlikely the agreement would be governed by Spanish Law. So, 
Im not persuaded that the legal decision he refers to would have any bearing here.Mr Ws new arguments and evidence relate to what he believes to be an illegal and 
fraudulent contract and he suggests theres no time limit for fraudulent acts. 
Section 32(1)(b) of the LA says that, if any fact relevant to the debtors right of action has 
been deliberately concealed from them, the period of limitation doesnt begin until the debtor 
(Mr W) has discovered the concealment or it could with reasonable diligence have been 
discovered by him  and section 32(2) says that deliberate commission of a breach of duty 
which is unlikely to be discovered for some time amounts to deliberate concealment of the 
facts in the breach.
I dont think the limitation period in relation to Mr Ws section 75 claim could be postponed 
since the claim against TPF isnt based upon allegations of fraud by TPF. Nor will a fact 
relevant to Mr Ws right of action have been concealed from him by TPF.  Under his section 
75 claim, I cant see why TPF would be affected by any fraud or concealment of the 
timeshare supplier. 
In any event, I dont consider theres enough evidence here to show that theres been a 
deliberate concealment of any relevant information. Mr Ws arguments are based upon what 
he believes were unfair and illegal contract terms which he only discovered following a 
Spanish Court decision in 2014. But as Ive already said, I dont think that applies here. And 
because of that, none of the evidence provided supports Mr Ws claim that the purchase 
agreement and contract were fraudulently misrepresented to him. 
Ive carefully considered all the points made by Mr W here. While I appreciate he will be 
disappointed, I agree that its likely Mr Ws claims were brought too late under the LA and its 
unlikely those time limits could be postponed. Because of that, I cant reasonably conclude 
that TPF have mishandled or wrongly declined Mr Ws claim here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman