DRN-2771771
The complaint
Ms S says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
This complaint is about 11 home collected loans Mutual provided to Ms S between January 
2015 and September 2019. Some of the information Ive been provided about the loans is in 
the table below:
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedTerm 
(weeks)date ended
1 24/01/2015 £300 51 14/10/2015
2 10/10/2015 £500 102 26/04/2017
3 05/03/2016 £500 102 22/11/2017
4 27/08/2016 £1,000 102 02/05/2018
5 03/12/2016 £500 102 28/11/2018
6 15/04/2017 £500 102 13/03/2019
7 18/11/2017 £550 102 14/08/2019
8 28/04/2018 £1,000 102 outstanding
9 24/11/2018 £500 102 outstanding
10 09/03/2019 £500 102 outstanding
11 10/09/2019 £600 102 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that the lending pattern itself was 
harmful for loans 4 to 8. Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Ive read in total 
what Mutual has said and a brief outline, using its own summary, is below:
Mutuals loans are a mid-cost product not a high-cost one, the lending should not be 
assessed as high-cost.
Mutuals lending was for durations of 2 years, a short term lending approach is not 
suitable for the assessment of the loans issued.
The pattern of lending shows no signs of unsustainable borrowing. The loans were 
spread over many years.
Mutual assess the affordability, creditworthiness and sustainability of the lending 
robustly in a manual underwriting assessment. Rules do not prescribe how this 
assessment should be made.
Ms S has displayed good payment history over a prolonged period which is evidence 
the loans were affordable and sustainable.
There is no evidence the customer was reliant on the loans. 
There is no requirement for the customer to have a break in lending in any rule or 
guidance we are aware of.
The customer repaid 7 loans early receving an early settlement rebate. If the 
customer could not aford the loans they would be highly unlikely to make 
overpayments and pay off ahead of time.
Taking 11 loans over 5 years is not the same as taking 11 loans in 1 year.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints of 
this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this 
type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont intend to 
go into detail about that here. But a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms S complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Ms S. It 
also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has responded to Mutual on these issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published 
decisions on our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as 
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its 
identified high cost credit cohort. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as 
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said 
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything 
else in making my decision.
Ms S accepted our adjudicators findings about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans  and, for the avoidance of doubt, 
given the evidence I have, I dont disagree with what the adjudicator said about this lending. 
And these loans formed part of the borrowing relationship Ms S had with Mutual. So, they 
are something I will take into account
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks made were proportionate from loan 4 
onwards and Ill explain why below. 
I will comment that much of the information provided by Mutual about the checks it made 
concerns the process its agents would have followed. There is very little evidence to show 
these processes were always followed here. It hasnt provided any application data and only 
brief details about income and expenditure for loan 11. So, overall, Im not clear how 
outlining the policies its agent is supposed to have followed, but may not have, are helpful 
here. Im not able to place any weight on descriptions of what ought to have happened when 
its not clear what checks Mutual did before lending, if indeed it did any.
Notwithstanding my concerns about the sales process itself I havent recreated individual, 
proportionate affordability checks for loans 4 to 11 because I dont think that its necessary to 
do so. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending history with Ms S, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms S case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
Ms S had been indebted to Mutual for over a year and a half. And she had taken out 
four loans over this period. There were no signs of her being able to materially 
reduce or fully repay this lending and at loan 4 she was making a commitment to 
make loan repayments for another two years.
Ms S first loan was for £300 and loan four was for was for £1,000. This is a 
considerable increase and points to Ms S need for this type of credit increasing. And 
whilst the loan was repayable over a longer term the amounts Ms S was now 
repaying were significant.
At loan 4 she hadnt repaid loans 2 and 3. This pattern of having multiple loans 
running at the same time continued for the remainder of the lending relationship. 
So, at loan 4 Mutual ought to have known that Ms S was not likely borrowing to meet 
a temporary or shorter term need for income but to meet an ongoing need.And Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely than not that Ms S. 
indebtedness was unsustainable, particularly given the increasing nature of the 
amounts she borrowed up to loan 4.
Ms S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Mutual. Loan 11 was 
taken out over four and a half years after Ms S first. And it was for a larger amount. 
Ms S had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mutual over an 
extended period.
I think that Ms S lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms S indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Ms S borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 11 and Mutual should put 
things right.
Mutual has referred to a 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate 
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case found that the 
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under 
four loans a year. It says, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on 
the same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was 
talking about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, 
with some different considerations, than whether a loan or series of loans, has been 
lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself 
shows that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this 
judgement was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home 
collected credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with 
different considerations. And indeed has repeatedly been keen to distance its products 
from those of short term high cost credit providers. So this means that the judges 
conclusions about a differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied 
here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of deciding whether a lending 
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors 
need to be also looked at, as Ive done above. So whilst I have noted Mutuals 
submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any arguments which persuade me to 
change my opinion about this complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms S from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For example, having been declined this lending Ms S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Ms S loans 4 to 11.
If Mutual has sold the outstanding debts Mutual should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Mutual is not able to buy the debts back then Mutual 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms S towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms S 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms S as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms S having made 
overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Mutual should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms S. Mutual shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mutual has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Ms S borrowing for loans 4 to 11 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms S credit file. Mutual 
does not have to remove loans 8 to 11 from Ms S credit file until these have been repaid, 
but Mutual should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if they ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms S complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman