DRN-3109007
The complaint
Mr F complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP) have poorly handled a claim he made under his 
home emergency policy.
Any reference to AWP includes its representatives or agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
In March 2021 Mr F called AWP, his home emergency insurance provider, to make a 
claim related to his immersion heater.
AWP declined the claim as it said Mr F hadnt had the heater serviced. Mr F 
instructed his own contractor to repair the heater, costing him £136.80. He then 
complained to AWP, saying it had unfairly rejected the claim.
AWP agreed it had given Mr F incorrect information and that it shouldnt have 
declined the claim. It offered him £25 in compensation and agreed to reimburse Mr 
Fs costs for repair upon the receipt of relevant evidence.
Mr F brought his complaint to this service. He said hed already provided AWP with 
evidence of his repair costs, but it hadnt paid these yet. And he felt the 
compensation AWP offered was too low.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said AWP should pay Mr F £100 in 
compensation in total for the inconvenience caused. And he highlighted that Mr F 
had provided evidence to show he paid £136.80 to a boiler and heater specialist on 
the day of the claim. So, it should pay Mr F the cost he incurred, plus 8% interest. 
Mr F agreed. But we didnt hear back from AWP, despite numerous chasers from our 
investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. And for the same reasons given by our 
investigator.
Theres no dispute that Mr F was given the wrong advice by AWP. It has 
acknowledged this and agreed it shouldnt have declined the claim as it did.
Mr F has explained to our service the frustration this experience has caused him. 
And Im in agreement with our investigator that the £25 offered by AWP wasnt 
enough in the circumstances. So, Im directing it to award £100 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience it has caused.
AWP has agreed to reimburse Mr Fs costs upon receipt of evidence. From what Ive 
seen, this evidence has already been shared with AWP. And despite ample 
opportunity to do so, it hasnt responded to our investigators view. So, in the 
absence of any evidence to the contrary, Im directing AWP to pay Mr F £136.80 plus 
8% interest.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. AWP P&C SA must:
Pay Mr F £100 in compensation.
Pay Mr F £136.80 plus 8% simple interest* from the date this was paid (10 March 
2021) until the date of settlement.
AWP P&C SA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr F 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
* If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman