DRN-2394546
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) wont refund
£500 that she says wasnt dispensed from an ATM.
What happened
On 22 September 2018 Mrs S asked her friend to withdraw £500 from an ATM for her. Her
friend told her the money had not dispensed and when they went to check at a different
ATM, the balance had reduced by the £500 (plus a £2 cash withdrawal fee).
Mrs S raised a dispute with Cashplus on 24 September 2018 and was sent a form to
complete. She completed the form dated 13 October 2018, detailing that the transaction in
dispute took place on 22 September 2018.
Cashplus raised a chargeback for a withdrawal that took place on 21 September 2018. This
chargeback was unsuccessful as the ATM provider showed that the money had been
dispensed.
Cashplus went back to Mrs S to clarify which transaction she was disputing as there were
several £500 withdrawals around that time. In December 2018, Mrs S told Cashplus it was a
£500 withdrawal that took place on 20 September 2018, so a further chargeback was raised.
This was also unsuccessful.
In March 2019, Mrs S clarified that it was the withdrawal on 22 September 2018 that had
failed to dispense. By this point Cashplus said that it was now too late to raise a chargeback
about this transaction, as the 120 days stipulated in the chargeback rules had now passed.
Mrs S referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld Mrs Ss complaint,
instructing Cashplus to refund the £500. She explained that the ATM provider had confirmed
to her that there was an error with the ATM when the withdrawal was attempted on 22
September 2018 and the ATM had been £500 over when counted. She explained to
Cashplus that regardless of the chargeback rules, it had an obligation to refund Mrs S as it
was clear the transaction had not been processed correctly. 
Cashplus disagreed. It maintained that Mrs S had told them the incorrect transaction when 
she reported the matter in September 2018, and by the time she corrected this, it was too 
late to process a chargeback.
Because Cashplus disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me decide.
Following a review, I let Cashplus know that I agreed with the investigators outcome. I 
explained that whilst chargeback is a route to help Cashplus retrieve the money from the 
ATM provider, it doesn't negate its responsibility to refund its customer if a transaction is 
incorrectly posted to an account because a technical breakdown of some kind. I pointed out 
that Mrs S doesnt have a relationship or contract with an ATM provider. It is Cashplus that 
has an agreement in place through the Link network that allows Mrs S to use the ATM. It 
follows that if something goes wrong, Cashplus should be the ones to remedy it. So, 
regardless of whether Mrs S raised the chargeback in time, Cashplus should refund her. 
Cashplus didnt agree with this maintaining that it had to abide by the MasterCard rules for 
processing a claim within 120 days and Mrs S had referred her dispute outside these 
timescales. 
I asked Cashplus to provide some further information following this so I could reach a formal 
decision. 
Cashplus sent me a copy of the dispute form Mrs S filled in on 13 October 2018. This form 
showed that Mrs S put the correct transaction date of 22 September 2018. However, 
Cashplus completed a chargeback for a withdrawal that took place on 21 September 2018. I 
pointed this out to Cashplus in an effort to resolve the complaint informally, as it seemed 
clear a mistake had been made by it. However, it didnt respond. I therefore proceeded to 
issue my provisional decision.
My provisional decision 
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 
2 November 2020. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
Following Mrs S letting Cashplus know that the money was not dispensed from the ATM,
Cashplus raised a chargeback. It raised a chargeback for a withdrawal that took place on 21
September 2018. However, this wasnt the withdrawal in dispute. Having reviewed the
dispute form Mrs S completed on 13 October 2018, its clear Mrs S put the correct
transaction date of 22 September 2018. This corresponds with the customer notes provided
by Cashplus, which also suggest Mrs S raised the dispute for the transaction on 22
September 2018, not 21 September 2018. Therefore, it would appear Cashplus raised the
chargeback against the incorrect transaction and this is why it was unsuccessful.
Its unclear how this happened. The audit report provided by Cashplus shows the withdrawal
on 22 September 2018 and therefore corresponds with what Mrs S had put on the dispute
form. I can only assume it was human error and the member of staff dealing with the claim
incorrectly processed it for the 21 September 2018. And when this then failed, the mistake
was not identified.
Cashplus actions started a long period of confusion for Mrs S and I can understand why.
Cashplus told her the original chargeback had been unsuccessful. This caused Mrs S to
doubt she had got the day right and so started guessing at which other of the £500
withdrawals it could be (as she'd done several around that time). By the time she clarified it
was 22 September 2018 (we now know for a second time), several months had passed and
Cashplus said it couldnt raise a chargeback. But as far as the evidence suggests, Mrs S
raised the correct date from the start.
The ATM provider has confirmed that there was an error with the ATM during Mrs Ss
withdrawal and the ATM was over by £500 that day. Given this, Im satisfied on balance, the
£500 wasnt dispensed from the ATM. And Im therefore satisfied that had Cashplus
processed the correct transaction through the chargeback process in October 2018, it
wouldve been successful, and Mrs S wouldve received a refund. Cashplus should therefore
refund Mrs S.
Mrs S has now been without her money for a considerable amount of time and through no
fault of her own. Cashplus caused unnecessary confusion and delays and have failed to
recognise its initial error. The £500 wasnt a small amount to Mrs S, and to be deprived of itfor such a long period of time, as well as made to feel like shed done something wrong,
understandably led to trouble and upset.
So, subject to any further representations from Mrs S or Cashplus I was minded to uphold 
the complaint.
Mrs S accepted the provisional decision. 
Cashplus didnt agree with the provisional decision. It said the dispute form asks customers 
to put details of the transaction as it appears on your statement which would be the settled 
date. It provided a copy of the call recording from 24 September 2018 when Mrs S initially 
called up to report the fact the money hadnt been dispensed. It pointed out that in the call 
Mrs S referred to the transaction being on Friday morning  this being 21 September 2018 - 
and that the balance she mentioned matched the balance prior to the withdrawal on 21 
September 2018. It argued that this shows her intention was to report the transaction that 
took place on 21 September 2018. Cashplus also argued that Mrs S herself admitted getting 
the date wrong when she contacted it in March 2019. 
Therefore, Cashplus disagree that it processed the incorrect transaction for a chargeback in 
October 2018.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mrs S was confused about which date the failed withdrawal happened on  likely 
because she didnt make the withdrawal herself. I accept that in the call Mrs S made to 
Cashplus on 24 September 2018, she mentioned the transaction occurring on the Friday, 
and therefore was on balance referencing the withdrawal that took place on 21 September 
2018. However, what we cant be sure of is that she meant for the transaction she put on the 
form, to also be this date. 
The form clearly indicates the transaction occurring on 22 September 2018. Given the form 
wasnt completed until 13 October 2018, it could be that Mrs S clarified what date the 
withdrawal took place on and put the correct date on the form. I appreciate Cashplus has 
said the dispute form said to put the transaction as it appears on your statement. But I dont 
think its unreasonable to conclude that the average person would just put the date they 
believe the transaction happened on and may not be aware that the date on the statement is 
the settled date, rather than the transaction date. So, its entirely possible Mrs S may still 
have meant the transaction on 22 September 2018. 
Given the time thats elapsed and the confusion surrounding the withdrawal, we will never 
know for sure which transaction Mrs S meant on the dispute form. But the fact of the matter 
is, the form said the 22 September 2018 on and Cashplus processed a chargeback for the 
transaction on 21 September 2018. 
I also dont think its fair to say that Mrs S saying shed made an error with the date, shows 
she actually did make a mistake. As I explained in my provisional decision, by March 2019 
the whole matter had become very confusing and from what Cashplus had been telling 
Mrs S about her claims being unsuccessful, I can appreciate why she may have felt she 
gave the wrong date. 
However, regardless of whether Mrs S meant the 21 or 22 September 2018 on the form, Im 
still satisfied Cashplus should refund her. As Ive already discussed with Cashplus, it is common practice that if a transaction is 
incorrectly posted to a customer account, it should be refunded. A chargeback is a tool to 
help financial businesses claim back money, it is not a prerequisite to them refunding their 
customers. So regardless of whether the chargeback shouldve been raised earlier, it doesnt 
negate Cashplus obligation to Mrs S. 
I understand a chargeback reason exists for occasions where cash is not dispensed from an 
ATM, but this is different to a dispute with a merchant for example, where a customer may 
have recourse elsewhere if a chargeback cant be processed. Mrs Ss account has clearly 
been debited incorrectly and she has no relationship with the ATM provider that will allow her 
to get the money back directly from them. Cashplus allows its customers to use the ATMs 
across the Link network, and so it is fair and reasonable that it is responsible should there be 
a technical fault which leads to the customer being incorrectly debited. 
My decision on this case therefore remains unchanged. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require Cashplus to do the following:
Refund the £500 that wasnt dispensed from the ATM, along with the £2 fee;
Pay 8% on this amount from the date of debit to the date of refund;
Pay £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Advance Payment Solutions 
Limited (trading as Cashplus) and require it to settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman