Page 1 of 2The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund payments it didnt make. 
Mr G, who is a director of E, brings the complaint on Es behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
Cashplus hasnt disputed this concerns unauthorised payments. However, in line with
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts
Mr G failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep
Es personalised security details safe.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Cashplus has
shown thats the case. Ill explain why.
Mr G received a text message that appeared to come from Cashplus  it referenced
a request to update the phone number on Es account and told him someone would
contact him shortly. He then received a call which similarly appeared to come from
Cashpluss number, and he said the caller knew some of his personal information.
Mr G recalled he was told that someone had attempted to add a new device to Es
account and to spend money. To stop this, he was asked to forward an email to an
email address which mentioned Cashplus as well as share a one-time code hed
receive by text.
Taking this all into account  how the communication appeared and the personal
information they knew  I can see why he was persuaded they were calling from his
genuine bank. So I can also understand why he followed their instructions,
particularly when he been tricked into thinking Es money was at risk.
DRN-4172461Page 2 of 2Cashplus point out that the email explains its to continue logging in to Es account
and that if Mr G completed his due diligence, hed likely have realised it was fraud
and the email address was fraudulent.
Im mindful that its easy to be critical of his actions with the benefit of hindsight. But
Mr G was acting in the heat of the moment, when he trusted the caller was from his
bank and he was panicked that E was at risk of fraud. In these circumstances, I dont
think Mr Gs actions meant he acted with very significant carelessness to conclude
he failed with gross negligence. After all, Mr G, like most people, isnt an expert in
fraud or Cashpluss procedures. So I can see how the fraudsters instructions didnt
ring alarm bells.
So I dont think Cashplus has shown Mr G failed with gross negligence. It follows
that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider E can be fairly held liable for these
unauthorised payments and Cashplus needs to put things right  by refunding Es
losses from the unauthorised payments alongside 8% simple interest per year to
compensate it for the time its been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Es complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
must:
Pay E the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount recovered or
refunded  I understand this to be £8,852.55.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on these amounts, from the dates of the
unauthorised payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman