DRN-3605507
The complaint
Mr S complains about the sale of a private medical insurance policy by Your 
Mortgage Decisions Limited (YMD).
What happened
Mr S held a private medical insurance policy with an insurer (that Ill call Policy A).
In July 2018, on the advice of YMD, Mr S switched to a new private medical insurance 
policy with a different insurer (that Ill call Policy B).
In 2020, Mr S made a claim under Policy B as he needed knee replacement surgery due 
to his arthritis. The insurer said Mr S had arthritis before he took out the policy, and he 
hadnt declared this. It said if he had done so, it wouldve applied an exclusion for this. It 
therefore applied the exclusion for arthritis retrospectively and turned down the claim.
Mr S complained to YMD about the sale of Policy B. He said hed made the adviser aware 
of his medical conditions, including arthritis. However, YMD didnt think Policy B had been 
mis- sold. Unhappy with this, Mr S brought a complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 July 2022. Heres what I said:
YMD has provided a record of electronic submission form. This form was for life 
insurance, serious illness cover, and family income cover (with the same insurer that 
provided cover for Policy B). This form included details of Mr Ss rheumatoid arthritis and 
high blood pressure.
YMD says the answers to the application for Policy B were taken from Mr Ss application 
for life insurance.
Ive looked at the application for Policy B, and I see that the insurer asked a switch 
question that related to Mr Ss health. This asked:
In the last three years, have you or any other person to be insured:
experienced symptoms, or
received any advice from a healthcare professional, or
received treatment or have treatment planned or expected (including 
prescribed or over the counter medication) for any condition?
The answer to this question was no. But Mr S had been prescribed medication for his 
arthritis in that timeframe, and was aware that he needed two full knee replacements. So 
the answer shouldve been yes.
The insurer has confirmed that if the above question had been answered yes, the 
following question wouldve been asked:
When did you or any other person to be insured last experience symptoms, receive 
advice from a healthcare professional, or receive any treatment (including prescribed or 
over the counter medication) relating to the following? (Please advise us of the most 
recent time period for each condition i.e. if you have treatment or advice planned, 
anticipated or expected and you also had treatment 1-3 years ago, please select 
treatment or advice planned, anticipated or expected).
It then lists a number of conditions, including arthritis. So if the application had been 
completed correctly, the insurer wouldve known about Mr Ss arthritis. The insurer 
has confirmed that if it had known about Mr Ss arthritis, it wouldve excluded this from 
cover.
YMD says it supplied the insurer with a copy of Mr Ss life assurance application so they 
could begin the process of the application for the private health insurance. We therefore 
asked the insurer about this. The insurer responded to say theres no evidence that they 
completed the application for Mr S. They said the application was submitted by YMD 
using its own online portal.
YMD doesnt have any evidence to support its assertion that the insurer completed the 
private medical insurance application form. I therefore have to conclude that YMD 
completed this application, based on the answers Mr S previously gave in his life 
assurance application.
It wasnt appropriate for YMD to do this, as the two application forms asked for different 
information relating to Mr Ss health. YMD was therefore at fault for Policy Bs application 
not including details of Mr Ss arthritis, and so I find that the policy was mis-sold.
When a business makes an error, the aim of this service is to place the consumer back 
in the position they would have been, had the error not occurred (as far as possible).
As Ive said, the insurer for Policy B has confirmed that if it had known of Mr Ss arthritis, 
it wouldve applied an exclusion for this. Given that Mr S knew hed need two full knee 
replacements in the future, Im satisfied he wouldve remained insured under Policy A if 
hed known that he couldnt have cover for his arthritis under Policy B.
Although Mr S had had arthritis affecting his knees for many years, I note that the insurer 
for Policy A had covered private treatment for his knees. This would suggest that the 
previous insurer was satisfied his condition wasnt chronic at that time. On balance, Im 
therefore satisfied that if Mr S had remained covered under Policy A, then he wouldve 
been able to have the knee replacement surgery he needed privately.
The difficulty here is that Mr S hasnt actually had the surgery privately, and so theres no 
financial loss in that respect. I note hes currently on an NHS waiting list for his first knee 
replacement, though this has been delayed due to other medical conditions hes since 
experienced.
As Mr S cant have the knee replacement surgery privately now, it wouldnt be appropriate 
for me to require YMD to pay compensation equivalent to the cost of the surgery that Mr 
S needs. I say that because theres no guarantee that Mr S would use that money for his 
surgery. Mr S could still have the treatment under the NHS, and would then have a lump 
sum payment that he wouldnt have ever been entitled to. It also wouldnt be appropriate 
for me to require YMD to reimburse Mr S for the private treatment when he eventually has 
the surgery, as we dont know when this will happen, or indeed if it ever will (due to his 
health).I therefore intend to award Mr S a lump sum payment as compensation, taking into 
consideration all the circumstances. In doing so, Ive taken into account the 
following:
-If Mr S had remained insured with Policy A, he likely would have already had 
his first knee replacement surgery privately. Although Mr Ss health has caused 
delays, his health problems only happened after hed been on the NHS waiting 
list for a number of months.
-Mr S has experienced pain and suffering as a result of his surgery being delayed.
-When Mr S has his surgery on the NHS, he wont have the comfort of having this 
in a private hospital. This will also be the case if he has a second knee 
replacement in the future.
-Mr S has saved over £1,000 a year on his annual premium by switching to Policy 
B.
Taking everything into account, I think a reasonable amount of compensation would be 
£3,000.
Mr S also says that hes paid for some steroid injections into both knees to relieve his 
pain. I think it would be reasonable for YMD to reimburse him for this, plus interest. 
However, I dont intend to require YMD to pay for this treatment going forward. I say that 
because I think its unlikely that the insurer of Policy A would have paid for this treatment 
on an ongoing basis. Thats because these policies arent intended to cover ongoing or 
long-term relief of symptoms.
I asked both parties to provide any further comments they wished to make.
Mr S responded with the following main points:
Hes glad I agree that the policy was mis-sold, but doesnt think the redress Ive 
proposed is suitable. 
He wants YMD to arrange a policy for him that covers his condition. 
He says hes paying around £6,000 a year in premiums, and that this is a financial 
loss.
He says its only my opinion that the insurer of Policy A wouldnt have paid for 
ongoing steroid treatment. 
His health has worsened, and hes no longer able to work. 
YMD responded to say it was disappointed in the change of outcome. It asked if Mr S 
could provide evidence of his steroid injections before refunding him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says that my intended redress doesnt place him back in the position he was in 
previously. He thinks YMD should arrange a policy that will cover his condition. 
Whilst I can understand Mr Ss reasoning, YMD is not an insurer. As Mr Ss condition would 
be considered pre-existing, he wouldnt be able to have cover for this under a new policy. 
Therefore, YMD would not be able to arrange this for him. That means YMD cannot place 
Mr S in the same position he was in previously.Its for that reason that Ive instead needed to consider a compensation payment. Ive set out 
in my provisional decision my reasoning behind the compensation amount of £3,000, so I 
wont repeat this here.
Although Mr S says hes incurred a financial loss due to the premiums hes paying for 
Policy B, its still the case that he can claim under that policy, just not in respect of his knee 
condition. I therefore dont agree that this is a financial loss.
I accept I dont know for certain that Insurer A wouldnt have covered ongoing steroid 
treatment. However, these policies specifically exclude ongoing or long-term relief of 
symptoms. Mr S hasnt provided any evidence which would suggest otherwise. I therefore 
dont require YMD to pay for future injections.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Ss health issues, and the impact this has had on his ability to work. 
However, I remain of the opinion that a lump sum compensation payment of £3,000 is 
appropriate redress in respect of the mis-sale of Policy B. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Your Mortgage Decisions 
Limited to pay Mr S £3,000 compensation.
I also require YMD to reimburse Mr S for steroid injections he had after taking out Policy B 
(subject to evidence of his costs). Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date each invoice was paid to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman