DRN-3514161
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC should have met her claim for a 
refund in respect of a short break she paid for using her Tesco credit card. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mrs L booked a three-day trip for her and her family with a supplier I shall 
call C. She paid £759 using her Tesco credit card. Mrs L booked a room which included a 
sauna. She has said this was a very important part of her trip as she usually made 
considerable use of the spa facilities at the venue but was reluctant to do so on this trip due 
to concerns about Covid-19  and having some private spa facilities was the best alternative.
 
When Mrs L arrived at her accommodation, she said the sauna would not heat up and the 
problem was not rectified until was almost time for her to leave. In the meantime Mrs L said 
her family was frequently disturbed by workmen not wearing masks trying to fix the problem. 
Mrs L asked C for a refund and after some negotiation it paid her £200. Mrs L believed she 
was due more compensation, so she asked Tesco to help her.
 
Tesco initially said it couldnt help Mrs L as there were no grounds for a chargeback and she 
didnt have a valid claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) as shed 
already received appropriate compensation from C. It subsequently offered to pay Mrs L £30 
to add to the £200 C had paid her as Mrs L had said this was the difference in cost between 
a room with a sauna with C and one with without. It also paid her £30 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by what it considered to be poor handling of her refund request on 
another transaction she made at the same time. 
Mrs L believes she should be paid more than this. She said in addition to not getting the kind 
of room she paid for, her and her family suffered a loss of enjoyment because of the hassle 
caused by getting the problem fixed. 
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. He said Mrs L had already 
received fair compensation for the part of the trip she didnt get, and he didnt think Tesco 
should pay Mrs L anything else. 
Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator. She said the broken sauna spoiled the trip as either 
her or her husband felt obliged to stay in the accommodation every time the workmen were 
there. Mrs L said this was for security reasons and to ensure they knew if the sauna was 
going to be fixed or not. Mrs L said the family missed out on planned activities together as a 
result. Mrs L said she also had to spend time walking to and from the guest service centre 
and had to queue up when she was there.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, I am looking at whether Tesco acted fairly and reasonably in the way it
handled Mrs Ls request for help in getting her money back. This will take into account the
circumstances of the problem and how the supplier has acted, but also things like the card
scheme rules a bank has to follow and its own obligations.
There are two main ways a bank can help a consumer to recover money paid to a supplier
who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money from the supplier
through a process known as chargeback. Or it can decide whether its customer has a valid
claim under Section 75.
Tesco said it couldnt raise a chargeback in Mr Ls case or pay more compensation under 
Section 75, because she stayed at the accommodation for the duration of her stay and she 
had already been fairly compensated for the part of her booking she didnt get.
Chargeback
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a
payment a consumer has made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute
with the supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer.
While it is good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there
is some prosect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be
appropriate for the bank to raise a chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set
by the relevant card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed.
I dont find Tesco should have raised a chargeback for Mrs L. She did utilise the 
accommodation for the duration of her stay and had received appropriate compensation for 
the part she didnt receive. Compensation for loss of enjoyment cannot be recovered via 
chargeback either. So, its very likely C would have been able to provide a strong defence to 
a chargeback and I think its likely it would not have succeeded if it had been raised. 
Section 75
Section 75 provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has
an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
Mrs L has provided a description of the accommodation she booked, at the time she booked 
it, and this included a private sauna. And from the communication she has provided between 
her and C it looks like the sauna was not fixed until Mrs L was almost about to leave. So, its 
likely she had a valid claim under section 75 because she did not receive all of the services 
that she was promised. 
Looking at how this should be put right, I see Mrs L said the cost of her accommodation 
without a sauna would have been around £230 cheaper. It appears she has made this 
estimate by comparing one room type with another.  Ive looked at the different kinds of 
rooms available on Cs website and from what I could find, the difference in price between 
the kind of room Mrs L booked and the next inferior room looks broadly in line with Mrs Ls 
estimate.  I could not however find identical rooms with and without a sauna. There were 
other features of a room with a sauna that were not included in a room without one such as 
on suite bathrooms and games rooms. Or the accommodation would have had less 
bedrooms.  
So, in making such a comparison, its not fair to attribute all of the difference in cost from Mrs 
Ls estimate to the sauna alone. There were other facilities in the room Mrs L booked that she would have been able to make use of and that she wouldnt have received if shed 
booked an inferior room. 
Ive taken the above into account, as well as everything Mrs L has said about the impact not 
having the sauna had on her and her familys enjoyment of the trip  which I recognise was 
not insignificant.  And Ive considered that Mrs L has been offered a refund of 30% of the 
cost of the trip between Tesco and C. Having looked at all of this in the round, I think Mrs L 
has been offered fair compensation for what went wrong with her trip. 
I know Mrs L has also suggested the sauna was so important she might not have booked 
with C at all had she known she wouldnt have use of it. But Mrs L did stay at the hotel for 
the duration of her booking and made use of the other facilities at the complex. So, it 
wouldnt be fair for her to get all of her money back.
Overall therefore, I dont find Tesco needs to do anything else other than pay Mrs L the £30 
it offered to pay her in respect of her trip if it hasnt already done this.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Mrs L has already been offered fair 
compensation for her complaint. Tesco Personal Finance Plc should pay Mrs L £30 towards 
the cost of her trip if it hasnt already done this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman