DRN-4324199
The complaint
Mr W complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage) irresponsibly granted him a hire 
purchase agreement that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr W acquired a vehicle financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Advantage. Mr W was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £225.88 and one final 
monthly payment of £400.88. The total amount repayable under the agreement was 
£13,727.80. Mr W believes Advantage failed to complete adequate affordability checks. Mr 
W and his representative says that if it had it wouldve been clear the agreement wasnt 
affordable at the time.
Advantage disagreed. It said it carried out an adequate assessment which included credit file 
searches, verification of Mr Ws income and statistical estimation of his non-discretionary 
expenditure. It said these searches showed Mr W had sufficient headroom to comfortably 
afford the loan.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They thought 
Advantages checks werent proportionate but that as Mr W and his representative had failed 
to provide the bank statements needed to decide what proportionate checks would have 
shown they could not conclude that the lending was unaffordable. 
Mr Ws representative didnt agree. They provided a copy of Mr Ws credit file in response 
but failed to provide the requested bank statements. Mr W and his representative asked for 
an Ombudsman to issue a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint. Advantage needed to 
ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly as per the rules set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). In practice, what this means is that Advantage needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was affordable for Mr W 
before providing it.
In this case, there are two overarching questions that I need to answer to fairly and 
reasonably decide Mr Ws complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did Advantage complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
W would be able to repay his loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr W wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Advantage act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Advantage complete a reasonable and proportionate affordability check?
Advantage was required to ensure it carried out adequate checks on Mr Ws ability to 
sustainably afford the agreement. These checks had to be borrower-focussed and 
proportionate (see CONC 5.2A). What is considered proportionate will vary depending on 
the circumstances, such as (but not limited to): the total amount repayable, the size of the 
monthly repayments, the term of the agreement (CONC 5.2A.20 R), and the consumers 
specific circumstances.
Advantage says that Mr Ws application underwent credit and underwriting checks, and 
these didnt raise any concerns. His income was verified through payslips, and Advantage 
also used statistical data to estimate the level of expenditure Mr W had at the time. It felt that 
these searches were reasonable and proportionate in this scenario. 
Im not satisfied that Advantage gathered a reasonable amount of information from Mr W 
about his expenditure prior to approving the finance. I understand Advantage made the 
decision to lend on the basis that his estimated disposable income was acceptable and that 
it found the risk this posed to itself as acceptable. But Im not satisfied enough consideration 
was given to the personal risk posed to Mr W.
Advantage has provided a copy of the credit file check it completed. At the time of the 
application Mr W had recently defaulted on a credit card account just three months prior to 
the sale. I can see in the same year hed also missed payments for his credit card and 
communications contract. I do think this all ought to have indicated Mr W may have been 
struggling financially and so I wouldve expected Advantage to take further consideration of 
Mr Ws specific financial situation before approving any lending. 
I want to be clear that Ive considered Advantages position about the number and type of 
checks that it did complete. And I understand that its searches attempted to approximate        
Mr Ws disposable income. However, considering the possibility of financial difficulties in his 
specific circumstance Im not satisfied that these checks adequately gathered a 
proportionate amount of information as they failed to answer how much he actually had left 
to spend after his existing commitments.
Given the size of the lending, the monthly repayments, the length of agreement, and the 
information in Mr Ws credit file, I think it would have been proportionate for Advantage to 
have verified Mr Ws expenditure  including costs such as food, petrol and housing. Without 
knowing what his regular committed expenditure was Advantage couldnt have got a 
reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable for his circumstances.
As Advantage dont appear to have sought a reasonable understanding of Mr Ws total 
committed expenditure, I dont think it carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks before lending. Advantage needed to do more in the circumstances before agreeing 
to lend. Without knowing what his regular committed expenditure was, Advantage wouldnt 
have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable for him. 
Im satisfied Advantage didnt complete proportionate affordability checks, but this doesnt 
automatically mean it failed to make a fair a lending decision.Did Advantage make a fair lending decision?
Ive considered what Advantage would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. I cant be certain what Mr W would have told 
Advantage had it asked about his regular expenditure. I dont think Advantage necessarily 
needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of anything else, Ive placed 
significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ws statements three months prior to 
the finance being approved as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed.
However, Mr W and his representative have been unable to provide the requested 
statements, instead providing another copy of Mr Ws credit file. This means that Mr W has 
failed to provide the requested evidence for me to consider his income and expenditure any 
further. And so, Im unable to see what his overall expenditure was at the time. This means I 
cant say that the agreement should have been considered unaffordable.
As Mr W and his representative havent been able to demonstrate that his agreement was 
unaffordable, I cant reasonably conclude that Advantage ought to have known he would 
struggle to make the repayments due under the agreement. I appreciate that Mr Ws 
testimony is that the borrowing was unaffordable, but the question I must consider is what 
Advantage would have been able to find out if proportionate checks had been completed. In 
the absence of the information already requested by our Investigator Im unable to see what 
Advantage would have most likely found at the time had it completed proportionate checks.
So, it follows that I cant reasonably say that Advantage made an unfair lending decision.
Did Advantage act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Im not persuaded from the submissions made to date that Advantage acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman