DRN-3777700
The complaint and what happened
Mr U complains Santander UK Plc wont reimburse funds he lost as a result of a scam. Mr U 
is being represented in his complaint. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision: 
Mr U received a cold call from someone with an investment opportunity  investing in 
the cryptocurrency market. Between January and March 2021, Mr U invested over 
£7,500 from his credit card and current account. There were also charges associated 
with the transactions. Mr U received back £293.04 from his investment.
Mr U realised hed been scammed when he asked to make a withdrawal and was 
told there would be a fee. 
Mr U raised chargeback claims for the card transactions made but was told they 
didnt meet the chargeback criteria. Mr U complained to Santander about the 
transactions, but it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt either; she wasnt persuaded the transactions were so unusual 
or uncharacteristic that they ought to have triggered the banks fraud alert systems.  
The representative has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman as it 
believes the payments were unusual and the bank should have intervened in the 
payments and asked questions about them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points above, I 
have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Under regulations and general banking terms and conditions, banks should execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. The starting position is that 
liability for authorised payments rests with the payer, even where they are tricked into 
making those payments. There is no dispute Mr U authorised the transactions in 
question. 
In accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, including that 
referenced by the representative, a bank has a duty to protect customers against the 
risk of fraud and scams, so far as is a reasonably possible. If in breach of that duty, a 
bank fails to act on information which ought to reasonably to alert a prudent banker to 
potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses incurred by its customer 
as a result. 
Mr U made his first transaction in January 2021 for little over £250. About a month 
later he made two transactions for £500 on the same day to a cryptocurrency 
provider.  And nearly a month on, he made another four transactions of £500 to the 
same provider. These payments were made from Mr Us credit card account. Whilst 
the payments were to new payees, that is a fairly typical spending for accounts of this 
type. I also dont find the amounts to be unusual or suspicious. Whilst four 
transactions (not up to seven as argued by the representative) might not be usual, 
Im mindful these transactions were spaced several weeks part, not a typical pattern 
of a fraud or scam. And I note that Mr U had sent similar sized sums from his credit 
card account to a trading platform in the months leading up to these transactions. I 
dont find the transactions were suspicious such that I think the bank ought to have 
intervened before processing the payments.  
I have also considered the payments sent from Mr Us current account. Although they 
were faster payments, they arent covered by the CRM code as the payments were 
made to his own account. And although the transactions were for higher amounts 
than those on his credit card (£1,350 and £3,000), again they were spaced apart with 
around a month between payments. I accept scams involving these exchanges are 
quite prevalent. However, I need to keep in mind that buying cryptocurrency was and 
is a legitimate exercise. And there is a balance to be struck between identifying 
payments which could be fraudulent and ensuring legitimate payments are made with 
minimal disruption. Overall, I dont find the pattern of payments was so unusual or 
uncharacteristic, such that they looked suspicious or, therefore, that Santanders 
fraud alert systems ought to have triggered. 
I note Mr U raised chargeback claims for the card transactions. However, for those 
most part, Mr U paid a cryptocurrency exchange. Where funds have been changed 
into cryptocurrency the service is considered provided and as such, any chargeback 
had little prospect of success. 
I appreciate Mr U has lost money to a scam. Despite my natural sympathy for the 
situation in which he finds himself, I dont find Santander did anything wrong and so I 
wont be making an award against it. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman