DRN-4315277
The complaint
Ms S complains about the standard of repairs arranged by QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) following a
claim she made for an escape of oil, under her home buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2022 there was a leak of oil originating from Ms Ss boiler. This was fixed but
damage resulted to the surrounding area in her kitchen and utility rooms. Ms S made a claim
to QIC. It arranged for an inspection of the damage and for repairs to be completed. She
says the repairs are substandard in a number of areas and she doesnt want the same
contractor to return again.
Ms S says she wasnt offered a settlement payment initially. She says this couldve avoided
delays in waiting for QICs contractor to start work. Ms S says her mental health has been
impacted by the ongoing issues and the time shes had to spend in alternative
accommodation. She says she has been out of her home for over six months, had to move
several times, not had her dog with her, and couldnt have her grandchildren over to stay.
QIC says its surveyors offered Ms S a settlement payment, but she refused this as she
thought it would be too much for her to handle the repairs by herself. But it agrees the
repairs it arranged werent up to the required standard. QIC says it offered Ms S £8,535.11
as a settlement payment in February 2023 so she could arrange for the remedial work to be
completed. In addition, it offered £250 compensation for the inconvenience it caused her.
QIC says it can arrange to carry out the remedial repairs, if Ms S cant find a contractor to do
the work for the payment it offered. It says its fair to allow its contractor the opportunity to
put right any the issues highlighted with its work. QIC says Mrs Ss complaint was closed at
the end of November 2022 following a conversation with its surveyor. It says she was happy
with the outcome. Following its offer of a cash settlement it says there have been no further
complaints raised and so a final response letter wasnt sent.
In its submission to our service QIC says that following its investigation its satisfied this was
the correct outcome.
Ms S wasnt satisfied with this outcome and referred the matter to our service. Our
investigator upheld her complaint. He didnt think QIC had treated Ms S fairly. He says the
photos hes seen support the view that the floor tiling needs replacing. He says the photos
show this is uneven and also prevents a door from closing. This is in addition to work that is
needed to repair a damaged cooker hood and dishwasher.
Our investigator thought QIC should pay a total of £400 compensation for the inconvenience
and distress it caused Ms S. And that it should pay for the remedial repairs. Ms S agreed.
QIC didnt agree. It supplied its scope of works that it says include all the repairs that needed
doing, which includes those set out by our investigator. It agreed to pay additional
compensation but says its contractor should have the opportunity to complete the repairs
under the warranty it provided.
As it didnt agree with our investigator QIC asked for an ombudsman to consider Ms Ss
complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Ms Ss 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Let me explain.
QIC accepted Ms Ss claim following the escape of oil in her home. I can see she was
placed in alternative accommodation whilst the repairs were carried out. Ms S hasnt
complained about these points, so I neednt consider this further. My focus here is on the
standard of repairs and the distress and inconvenience Ms S says she was caused by the
need for remedial works. I will also consider her concerns that QIC didnt offer a settlement
payment at the outset of her claim. More specifically, that this meant the repairs took longer
resulting in more time for her in alternative accommodation.
Ive read the inspection report completed by QICs surveyor on 15 November 2022. This
relates to the snagging issues highlighted by Ms S. The report says:
On inspection: There are a few things that needed to be addressed by the contractor: 1)
Some areas on the walls required more filling and rubbing down / prep prior to emulsion
finish. Especially just above skirting level on the dividing wall to Lounge. 2) floor tiling near
incline / small ramp down to utility was not to standard - Have requested that this section is
addressed by contractor. 3) Glass splash back. Policy holder requested white instead of
black this has now been addressed. 4) Tiled floor in GF W.C is dirty from use of contractor.
Have advised this will be cleaned as a part of the post builders clean by contractor. 5)
Carpets have been soiled from works in the adjacent Lounge, Stairs and Landing - Have
spoken with CCH who will instruct TFR to clean. 6) Mitre / biscuit joints on units need
addressing joints not flush and requires addressing. All of the above has been agreed by
[contractor] who will address all.
Ms S says she was asked by QICs surveyor to provide a report to illustrate the remedial
work needed to fix the floor tiling. In response she supplied a report from a contractor
headed Retiling the Kitchen and Utility Area. The report says:
Description of works: The entire floor needs taking out. The floor needs levelling prior to
tiling. The new tiles need to be laid. Then we need to grout the tiles.
Report for retiling: When we arrived at the property you can easily notice the poor work that
has been done. The tiles are uneven and is a trip hazard as they stick [sic] from the ground.
There are many sharp edges as they havent cut them 45 [degrees] especially around the
ramp. Spaced [sic] between the tiles not equal.
QIC has supplied a scope of works for the remedial repairs. It says this includes the work
required to resolve the issues with the tiling, as well as the cooker hood and dishwasher that
Ms S highlighted. Ive read the scope of works. I can see the following items are included in
the proposed repairs:Line Item 101 - Install Ceramic floor tile - High grade
Line Item 111 - R&R Dishwasher - Integrated w/labour - High grade
Line Item 114 - R&R grout or regrout tiled floor
Line item 122 - Cooker Hood - Self circulating - Remove and refit
Line Item 130 - R&R Grout or re-grout tiled floor.
Ive looked at the photos Ms S supplied of the floor tiling QICs agent installed. There are a
number of areas where the gaps between the tiles vary in width  this is supposed to be
uniform. There are also several areas where the edges of the tiles are raised. The tiles dont
always align, and the general finish looks poor. I think the photos act to support the view of
the tiling contractor Ms S approached, which is that the tiles need to be removed and
replaced.
QIC doesnt dispute this view. Its scope of works for the remedial repairs include removing
and replacing (R&R) the tiles in question. However, Ms S says the contractors shes spoken
with cant complete all the repairs for the cash settlement QIC offered. In addition, she says
she doesnt trust QICs contactor to carry out the repairs to a good standard. I note QICs
contractor has been out to carry out some repairs previously. Ms S says that it laid some
strips over the join between her kitchen and utility rooms. She says this looks terrible and
now means the door wont close. Other than this she says the tiling remains the same.
Theres no dispute that remedial repairs are required to return Ms Ss home to the condition
it was in pre-loss. This is because of the poor standard of repairs completed by QICs
contractor. Ive read Ms Ss policy terms to understand what is expected to happen. The 
terms say:
When settling your claim, if we decide that we can offer rebuilding work, repairs or
replacements, we will ask you to choose one of the following options.
a) We will choose a contractor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to carry out
the rebuilding work, repairs or replacements.
b) We will pay you a cash settlement for the same amount it would have cost us to use
our preferred contractor.
If we cannot offer rebuilding work, repairs or replacements (as defined by us) through our
preferred contractor, we will pay you fair and reasonable costs to have the work carried out
by your chosen supplier.
I note Ms Ss comments that she wasnt offered a settlement payment at the outset of her
claim. However, QIC disputes this. It says two of its surveyors discussed this with her. It
says its surveyors recall that Ms S, felt this would be too much to handle and so chose for
us to use one of our selected contractors. Clearly Ms S has a different recollection. I dont
dispute what she says. However, based on the evidence available Im not able to clarify this
point further. That said Ms S was in possession of her policy terms. The option for a
settlement payment is clearly stated. She couldve contacted QIC to request this given her
concerns about the delay in works commencing.
Ive thought about Ms Ss reluctance to have QICs contractor back to complete the remedial
work. Its clear that a significant part of the work wasnt completed to a good standard. This
is acknowledged by QIC. This is also the view of Ms Ss contractor, which is supported by
the photos provided. In the first instance I agree with QIC that its fair to allow the contractor
to return in order to remedy any issues with its work. However, in this case it has already
had this opportunity and carried out ineffective repairs. I dont think its fair to Ms S to have to
rely on this contractor to complete the repairs again in these circumstances.Ms S says shes satisfied with the settlement payment QIC offered for some of the repairs.
But she doesnt think this allows for the cost of the tiling, when using an alternative
contractor.
In these circumstances I think a fair outcome is for QIC to amend its settlement offer by
removing its preferred contractors costing for tiling and grouting work and to replace this with
the costing Ms S obtained from her contractor. QICs contractor has carried out a poor
standard of work relating to the tiling. It hasnt helped the situation with its attempt to remedy
its substandard work. So, I think its fair that Ms S receives a payment to cover the cost of
her chosen contractor carrying out this work.
Ive thought about the impact all of this has had on Ms S. Ive read the letter she provided
from her medical health practitioner that links the ongoing repair issues with her health
problems. Im sorry to hear that the ongoing issues with the repairs to Ms Ss home has
impacted on her mental health.
We expect an insurer to handle all claims effectively. Some disruption is unavoidable when
events like this happen. But an insurer should make sure that it carries out repairs efficiently
to prevent avoidable disruption. Because of the poor standard of repairs, and the additional
time this has meant to restore Ms Ss home to its pre-loss condition, I dont think QIC has
handled this claim effectively. The business has offered Ms S £250 compensation for the
inconvenience it caused her. I agree with out investigator that a total payment of £400 is
more appropriate to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience she has experienced.
In summary, I dont think QIC treated Ms S fairly because of its contractors poor standard of
work. It should provide a cash settlement to include the tiling work costing Ms S provided,
alongside the remaining items from its scope of work. It should also pay Ms S a total of £400
compensation for the distress and inconvenience the poor standard of work and subsequent
delays in restoring her home have caused.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and QIC should:
pay Ms S a cash settlement to include the costing she supplied for the remedial tiling
work; and
pay Ms S a total of £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused
her
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
QIC responded to say that it accepted my provisional findings. Ms S also responded to say 
she accepted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
My final decision is that QIC Europe Ltd should:
pay Ms S a cash settlement to include the costing she supplied for the remedial tiling 
work; and
pay Ms S a total of £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
her
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman