DRN-3640634
The complaint
Mr N complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC sent him a text advising that they had 
approved his loan application and then they declined the loan. He says this has caused him 
difficulty as he had engaged a building contractor. 
What happened
In January 2022 Mr N applied for a £10000 loan with Tesco to undertake home 
improvements. Tesco declined to lend to him over 5 years but advised he could ask for the 
loan to be considered over 2 years 11 months. 
Six days later Mr N received a text advising him that the loan had been approved, and he 
would receive the documents for signature in the next 3-4 days. While he was waiting for the 
documents to sign, he went ahead and arranged the home improvements he had been 
planning, paying deposits to some contractors. 
Four days later Mr N received an e mail saying the loan application had been declined.  
Mr N says that he was unable to get the deposits back from the builders and he complained 
to Tesco. They have apologised for the error in sending the text message and offered Mr N 
£150 compensation for the error. 
However, Mr N was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. He wanted his loan 
approved and compensation for distress. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint. He thought that Tesco had made a 
fair offer, but Mr N disagreed, and so the case has come to me to review
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all the evidence and listened to Mr Ns calls with Tesco. 
Im not upholding this complaint and I will explain why below. 
I cant tell Tesco when they should and shouldnt lend to a customer, and so Im not able to 
direct that the loan is approved.
I can only look at whether Tesco have made any errors in the application process, and 
whether they have treated Nr N fairly. 
I can see that the original loan was refused because the five-year term of the loan wouldnt 
meet Tescos lending criteria. I think this was fairly declined, and Mr N was notified straight 
away. 
On 18 January 2022 Mr N rang Tesco and spoke to an adviser, who told him he could 
appeal, asking for the lending over a reduced term of 2 years and 11 months. The adviser 
agreed to put this appeal through for him and said if it was accepted, her would hear shortly. 
He didnt guarantee Mr N that the loan would be approved on this shorter term.
I can then see that on 24 January 2022 Tesco sent a text message in error advising that Mr 
Ns loan had been approved. Tesco cant explain why this happened, but they have 
acknowledged and accepted they made a mistake.  
I can understand why Mr N thought that this meant his loan was approved, but I also note 
that the text also tells him to await the documentation and the credit agreement to sign and 
send back. And so, there was no credit agreement in place until this had been done and 
there was no obligation on Tesco to lend until that had taken place. 
Mr N received an e mail declining his loan application on 28 January 2022. He rang Tesco to 
complain. In that call Mr N says that he wants the loan honoured in accordance with the text. 
The adviser explains that she cant guarantee that but will ask the underwriters for more 
information about why it was declined, and she also offers to raise a complaint.
 
I appreciate that receiving this text will have caused some inconvenience to Mr N in trying to 
get his deposit back and he will have had to explain what had happened to his builder. 
However, I am also mindful that Mr N acted in instructing a builder before the credit 
agreement was signed, and so there was no legal agreement in place to provide the loan. I 
cant therefore hold Tesco responsible for any losses that Mr N may have incurred as a 
result of this. 
 
And so, I am satisfied that the £150 compensation offered to Mr N is fair for the 
inconvenience caused, and I understand this was paid to Mr N in February.  
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC and so I wont be 
asking them to do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman