DRN-2542879
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Metro Bank Plc has handled two chargeback claims for him.
What happened
Below is a copy of my provisional decision issued to both parties setting out what happened, 
together with my provisional findings. 
On 6 and 7 February 2019 Mr H used his debit card to purchase two gold bars, one for
£16,556 and the other for £16,634. And he was informed delivery of the gold bars would
happen on 8 February 2019.
When Mr H didnt receive the gold bars he contacted the merchant several times by email
and attempted to call them to find out what had happened. On 20 February 2019 the
merchant emailed Mr H to say the delivery had happened on 8 February 2019 at 10.39am
and the delivery had been signed for.
Mr H has maintained throughout this complaint that he didnt sign for the delivery. Unable to
get through to the merchant to speak with them, Mr H sought advice from the citizens advice
bureau and contacted his bank Metro on 21 February 2019 to dispute the payments hed
made.
Separate chargeback forms dated 28 February 2019 for each of the transactions were
issued to the merchant acquirer. And on 12 March 2019 the merchant acquirer wrote to the
merchant describing the disputed payments and requested evidence from the merchant.
The merchant acquirer received the merchants response on 25 March 2019 which included
proof of the order and proof of delivery in the form of a parcel tracking number and the
signature taken to confirm receipt of delivery.
It is my understanding this information was shared with Metro. And on 19 April 2019 Metro
wrote to Mr H asking for his comments in reply to the merchants submissions. The letter
also asked Mr H to provide some evidence of his signature, by providing a copy of his
passport or driving licence.
Theres some dispute from Mr H as to whether he submitted his passport as proof of his
signature. More recently, hes said he didnt send it. But a call on 24 April 2019 suggests he
had sent this to Metro.
On 28 May 2019 the merchant acquirer wrote to the merchant explaining the previous
information submitted had been shared with the card issuer and that Mr H was still disputing
what happened  mainly it seems as he had not signed for the goods. The merchant
acquirer therefore asked the merchant to look into things further and provide any supporting
evidence in order to continue defending the case if they wished to.
The merchant replied to the merchant acquirer explaining theyd previously sent all the
information they had and confirmed they were continuing to defend the claim as the goods
were delivered to the clients home address. In addition, the merchant now highlighted
clause 6.4 in their terms and conditions which say: It is up to you to ensure that you are
present at the address for the delivery and to sign for the goods in person. Claims arising
from packages being signed for by an individual unknown to you or other circumstances
involving any other third party at the delivery address are your risk.
Following this, the merchant acquirer wrote to Metro on 17 June 2019 to explain the
merchant had investigated things. The merchant acquirer gave Metro the options of
providing comments, remitting the credit and set out that in the absence of a reply the case
would go to arbitration.
On 20 June 2019 Metro wrote to Mr H explaining that information from the merchant showed
Mr H had been aware of the risks of not signing for the goods. And that should Mr H wish to
pursue things further he could approach the merchant directly. Mr H discussed things with
Metro on 16 July 2019 and Metro again explained theyd declined the case citing the
merchants terms and conditions.
On 17 July 2019 Metro issued their final response about the complaint and Mr H brought his
concerns to our service.
On 25 September 2019 Metro wrote to Mr H explaining as part of their commercial decision
making, they were issuing him notice under the account terms and conditions that they
would be ending their banking relationship with him in November 2019.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint should not be upheld. The investigator didnt
think Metro had acted unfairly in the circumstances when following the chargeback process.
Mr H, together with his representative, strongly disagreed. They felt Metro had not taken
everything into account and that things had not been investigated properly. They also felt
Metro should have escalated the matter to arbitration.
Given some of the confusion about what had happened in the later stages of the chargeback
process, clarification was recently sought from Metro. Metro confirmed the case was
declined by Metro, and not the card scheme provider. Metro clarified they were satisfied,
with the evidence provided that Mr H had agreed to the risk set out within the merchants
terms and conditions and therefore there would be no possibility of winning the case
because of this. So the matter wasnt taken any further.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr H and his representative should also
know that while I have not referenced all of their specific points or set out all the exchanges
between the parties above, I have reviewed all the available submissions and evidence from
the parties including the available call recordings.
Chargeback is a process under the relevant card scheme, set up to settle disputes between
card issuers and merchants. Such card schemes are voluntary, and the chargeback process
is run by the card scheme. The card scheme also sets out the rules when a chargeback is
allowed as well as what the requirements are for the parties involved.
It is also important to note, that it is not for this service to decide any dispute between Mr H
and the merchant. Our service can only look at whether Metro has acted fairly and
reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H paid for the gold bars using his debit card, requesting the chargebacks was the onlyway Metro could help Mr H. And its worth noting that raising a chargeback on behalf of a
cardholder (in this case Mr H), is not something a card issuer has to do. However, in this
case Metro were satisfied there was enough to initially raise a chargeback for each
transaction. And they did this within the time-limits set by the scheme rules.
The scheme rules explain what considerations should be given to the different reasons for
raising a chargeback. And with this in mind, the merchant acquirer, on behalf of the
merchant, felt there was enough evidence from the merchant to defend the chargeback
claims. The chargeback process allows for presentment  that is, in this case an
opportunity for the merchant acquirer to provide reasons for defending the chargeback
claims. This is what happened with Mr Hs case as the merchant acquirer shared the
merchants evidence (as described earlier) with Metro.
Metro didnt initially accept the evidence provided from the merchant and sought
confirmation of Mr Hs signature from Mr H to support that it wasnt him who signed for the
goods.
Metro confirmed they then raised an arbitration chargeback (this is not the same as
arbitration by the scheme provider) to continue pursuing the claims. And the reasons for this
were shared with the merchant by the merchant acquirer. However, the merchant acquirer
continued to defend the claims in light of additional information from the merchant  notably
the merchants terms and conditions. On review of everything Metro decided to decline Mr
Hs claims.
In view of the above, I think Metro followed the chargeback process applicable to these
claims up to this point. So it seems the issue now at hand is therefore whether Metro should
have followed the process further to arbitration by the scheme provider.
Mr H and his representative feel confident Mr H would have likely been successful at
arbitration, however, Im afraid I find it difficult to say the same. And after consideration of
everything, I think it was reasonable for Metro to decide not to pursue the claims further.
The merchants terms  which Mr H accepted by entering into the transactions with the
merchant - set out the risk for Mr H should there be any problems around the delivery and
third parties signing for the goods. Also, the merchants paperwork, proof of postage and
signed proof of delivery quoting the correct tracking number all refer to the same address.
So, even if I were to conclude Metro should have taken the matter to arbitration for the
scheme provider to decide (which I dont think it needed to in this case), on balance I cant
reasonably say the claims would have succeeded.
Perhaps Metro could have first allowed Mr H another opportunity to respond to the merchant
acquirers submissions of 17 June 2019. But as Ive already said, I dont think Metro reached
an unreasonable decision by choosing not to proceed to arbitration. Simply because a
chargeback claim has been defended, it doesnt automatically follow that the matter should
be progressed to arbitration. And Mr H cannot make Metro follow such a course of action as
he has no right to insist Metro does this.
In view of the sums involved and from what Mr H has told us in his submissions, I appreciate
that this whole matter has not been easy, and I can only imagine that to be without the
money and the goods continues to understandably cause Mr H a lot of upset. However, the
chargeback claims, while unsuccessful, do not prevent Mr H from potentially seeking
alternative ways of resolving the matter directly with the merchant should he wish to explore
other avenues.
Given the above, I dont think Metro has acted unreasonably in the circumstances. So I cantask Metro to cover Mr Hs loss.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr H and his representative didnt accept my provisional findings. In summary, Mr Hs 
representative made the comments below. 
 
He noted this services role is to determine by what is, in the opinion of the ombudsman, fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. But he says it was not fair or reasonable to 
ignore Mr Hs rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 which say the goods should 
remain at the traders risk until they come into the physical possession of either the 
consumer or a person identified by the consumer to take possession of the goods. 
Because of this, Mr Hs representative said the merchants terms  particularly 6.4  are 
unlawful and unenforceable given Mr Hs rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. And 
therefore it was unfair of Metro to use the terms in question as a reason not to refer the case 
to arbitration. Mr Hs representative said failure to refer the chargeback claims to the 
arbitration stage also meant the merchant was being excluded from any statutory liability. 
 
Mr Hs representative referred to his and Mr Hs own extensive communications with the two 
card scheme providers who he says gave them general guidelines on how they decide 
chargeback claims in relation to goods not being received. Mr Hs representative says the 
card scheme providers told him while there may be clauses in a merchants terms and 
conditions, these are not a relevant factor. And that as well as looking at the signature 
obtained by the courier, and general tracking information, they would expect the merchant to 
raise an investigation with the courier to find out what happened with the delivery  which he 
says didnt happen in Mr Hs case. 
Mr Hs representative suggests that putting the merchants terms above a consumers 
statutory rights effectively makes the chargeback scheme redundant. 
He also noted, regardless of whether Mr Hs chargeback claims would be successful at 
arbitration (which he and Mr H both believe they would be), it is not fair or reasonable for 
Metro to have prevented Mr H from having the opportunity of such a review. 
Mr Hs representative posed two questions: 
Firstly; Is it fair and reasonable that Mr H should be deprived of his rights under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 and that exclusion clauses contrary to statute should be 
determinative when a bank decides to raise or escalate a chargeback claim? 
And secondly; On what basis does the ombudsman believe that Mr Hs claim would fail at 
arbitration? 
Metro also replied to my provisional decision and confirmed they had nothing further for me 
to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the points Mr Hs representative is making, but Im afraid that after further 
review, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
 In view of the additional submissions, I think its important to revisit what this service is able 
to look at in this particular case. 
Mr Hs representative asks whether its right that Mr H should be deprived of his consumer 
rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
 
As my provisional decision above explained, Mr H has brought a complaint to our service 
about two chargeback claims. It is primarily the chargeback scheme which needs to be 
considered here as the chargeback claims are the financial activities allowing us to look at 
this complaint. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up and run by the card scheme. The 
scheme sets out the rules when a chargeback is allowed and what the requirements are for 
those involved in the claim. With this being a voluntary scheme there are limits to what can 
be considered under the scheme and how chargeback claims should be reviewed. This 
voluntary scheme is what Metro signed up to, and it is in this context that Metros actions 
need to be considered. 
So my role here is broadly to determine whether Metro fairly and reasonably followed the 
chargeback process in place at the time of the claims. It is therefore not for me to debate the 
wider considerations Mr Hs representative is submitting about how the chargeback process 
works against the statutory landscape. Or to look at the contract terms between Mr H and 
the merchant. As Ive previously said, it is not for this service to look at a dispute between Mr 
H and the merchant or the actions of the merchant in this matter. 
I would remind Mr H that our involvement, if Mr H chooses not to accept the outcome of this 
final decision, doesnt prevent Mr H from pursuing other ways of resolving the matter with the 
merchant. And so this doesnt take away any statutory rights Mr H may have.
 
Mr Hs representative also asks how it can be known the chargeback claims wouldve failed 
at arbitration. 
There is no certainty in this. However, it was for Metro to decide whether to refer the 
chargeback claims to arbitration (not Mr H or his representative), and it is for me to consider 
whether Metros decision was reasonable at the time.
 
Mr H and his representative feel strongly that Metro should have done this  mainly because 
they view the merchants terms as unlawful. 
In this context it is not for Metro to challenge the merchants terms. I therefore didnt think it 
was unreasonable for Metro to choose not to go to arbitration based on the available 
evidence and I was satisfied Metro had followed the scheme rules for these chargeback 
claims.
 
Available paperwork showed the merchant had sent the goods and that the goods had been 
delivered to the correct address Mr H had provided. Mr H was also aware that the goods 
were to be delivered. And he had signed terms accepting some risk around the delivery. 
In Metros role of following the scheme rules, it would be difficult to dispute Mr H hadnt 
agreed to the terms (regardless of whether Metro agreed with the terms or not). So there 
was a very reasonable chance the claims would be declined at arbitration. 
Mr Hs representative has made reference to the card scheme guidance which sets out the 
requirements for parties involved in a chargeback claim. And Mr Hs representative has also 
referred to discussions with the scheme providers that he has had. However, rather than any 
generalised discussion, I have placed more weight on the banks handling of the chargeback claims as I would expect that Metro would have more familiarity with the application of the 
scheme guidance and the details of these specific claims.
I am sorry this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. I do understand there is a significant 
loss here on his part. However, in this case my review has been to see if Metro have acted 
fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr Hs chargeback claims within the scope of the 
voluntary scheme, and not whether the merchant has breached any statutory 
responsibilities. Mr H would have to take that up separately with the merchant and it may be 
helpful for Mr H to seek independent legal advice.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman