DRN-2512348
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have 
handled her insurance claim for a blocked toilet.
 
What happened
Miss M had a home insurance policy with RSA. And in September 2020 she made a claim 
against the policy for a blocked toilet. As part of the policy Miss M had Home Emergency 
cover, when they attended, she was advised that a camera was needed to identify the cause 
of the blockage as it could be from a collapsed drain. On calling RSA Miss M, who suffers 
from several medical conditions, was told by RSA they would appoint someone as a matter 
of urgency to look at the drains. 
Miss M said she was left confused and stressed as she was having to deal with different 
parties to try to get the matter resolved. Also, despite making RSA aware that she found 
voicemail messages difficult to understand, RS continued to leave voicemail messages. 
She also asked for at least 30 minutes notice of any visits to her home address, as she had 
to get there from her alternative accommodation, but this didnt always happen. And when 
she was in attendance at her home address, she said she was told she was lying as they 
said no-one had been at home.
Miss M said she had to spend several months in alternative accommodation, and at times 
she didnt know if this was going to be extended. And when she was told a camera would be 
used to locate the blockage this didnt happen on a couple of visits, so her toilet was 
unblocked but the issue wasnt resolved, and this meant it blocked up again. She 
complained to RSA.
RSA accepted that theyd continued to leave voicemail messages and write to Miss M in the 
wrong font after theyd been made aware of the issues this caused. They also accepted the 
stress caused by the delays in the lateness of extending her alternative accommodation. 
And that visits had to be rearranged as theyd failed to let her know. To put things right RSA 
had offered Miss M £450 in compensation. Miss M didnt think this was enough for the stress 
and inconvenience caused to her. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said RSA had known the difficulties Miss M was experiencing but hadnt 
made a note of these until October 2020. He said they hadnt treated Miss M fairly and 
reasonably and agreed this had caused her considerable distress. He said RSA should offer 
Miss M a further £400  in total £850 for trouble and upset.
Miss M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint.
Miss M has raised other complaints about RSA and her dealings with them, so if I dont refer 
to some of her complaint points its because they have been considered in a previous 
complaint brought to us. Or are been resolved between Miss M and RSA.
RSA has already accepted their standard of service fell short of what they would have 
expected. So, in reaching my decision I need to determine whether the compensation RSA 
has offered Miss M to put things right is fair and reasonable.
Miss M has several medical conditions which she made RSA aware of. She also has hearing 
difficulties which means listening to voicemails is very difficult. So, Miss M had asked RSA 
not to leave her any voicemails and had requested a larger font size for any written 
communications they sent her.
Having toilet facilities was a medical priority for Miss M and being without one was 
unacceptable. So, RSA arranged for her to stay at alternative accommodation. But this 
meant as Miss M wasnt at home, she needed prior notification of when any visits to carry 
out work on her toilet was being made. She requested at least 30 minutes warning to give 
her the chance to get to her property, which I dont think is unreasonable.
I can see RSA were having to deal with third parties to arrange for the cause of the toilet 
blockage to be established. But from September 2020 when the first Home Emergency visit 
was made it was seen that there was a need for the toilet to be removed and a camera used 
to identify the cause, as without this the toilet repeatedly blocked. But this didnt happen until 
December 2020. I can see in the preceding months several visits were arranged by RSA but 
there were times when only a plumber arrived who plunged the toilet and the camera work 
wasnt done, or the technician arrived but the plumber didnt. And its clear this caused 
considerable stress and inconvenience for Miss M. Not only was the required work not done, 
but she had the inconvenience of having to get to travel to her home address from her 
alternative accommodation. On one occasion I can see Miss M called RSA as she was 
waiting at her address, but no-one had turned up to carry out the work. RSA was told by the 
third party that someone had been on site but no one had answered, so the visit again had 
to be rearranged. And as visits were arranged the expectation was there would no longer be 
a need for alternative accommodation. But this expectation was having to be adjusted on a 
regular basis, leaving Miss M with uncertainty about her accommodation.
In December 2020, when the toilet was removed and the camera work undertaken it was 
established that the cause of the issue was with the actual toilet connections, and Miss M 
was told this repair wouldnt be covered under her policy. I wont comment further on this 
point as this is the subject of another complaint with RSA.
I can see from RSAs records that Miss Ms case wasnt noted until October 2020 about her 
vulnerability and communication needs, which RSA has accepted added to the 
inconvenience experienced by Miss M. But Im pleased to see that this has now been 
correctly noted so that further voicemails arent left and all communication is in a larger font 
size.RSA offered £450 in compensation to put things right. But I agree with our investigator for 
the reasons outlined above I dont think this is enough to reflect the considerable stress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss M over several months. So, I agree that RSA should pay a 
further £400  in total £850 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Miss M 
£850 in total for trouble and upset.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman