DRN-2741954
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way Saga Services Limited administered her personal accident 
policy.
What happened
Mrs W took out a personal accident insurance policy through Saga in 2014. The policy 
renewed on a monthly basis and wouldve covered Mrs W until she was 90 years old. 
However, in July 2019, Saga wrote to its policyholders to let it know that itd decided to 
discontinue the policy. It told Mrs W her policy would be cancelled in September 2019.
After receiving Sagas letter, Mrs W called up to ask whether shed be entitled to any refund 
of premium for the years shed been paying for the cover. Saga explained that as shed 
benefited from being insured since 2014, no refund of premium would be paid. Mrs Ws 
policy was cancelled with effect from 30 September 2019.
Unfortunately, in December 2019, Mrs W suffered an accident and required surgery. 
However, as her policy had been cancelled, she wasnt entitled to any policy benefit. Mrs W 
complained as she said she hadnt wanted her policy to be cancelled. And she said Saga 
had told her that it would help her find alternative cover with another insurer, but it hadnt 
done so. So Mrs W thought Saga should pay her claim. She asked us to look into her 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy terms 
and conditions made it clear that Saga was entitled to cancel the policy, so long as it gave 
30 days written notice. She considered that by writing to its customers in July 2019, Saga 
had met this obligation. And she felt Saga had been entitled to make a commercial decision 
to decide not to continue to offer personal accident cover. 
Mrs W disagreed. She said that if Saga had helped her even a bit after it ended the policy, 
she wouldve had cover in place at the time of her accident. She felt it owed her at least an 
apology.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Saga has treated Mrs W fairly. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Mrs W feels strongly that it wasnt fair for Saga to stop offering personal 
accident insurance cover. She feels that Saga had agreed to cover her until the age of 90. 
Its important I make clear that I have no power to tell a financial business what products it 
should offer or whether its entitled to withdraw from a particular market. Thats because 
were not the industry regulator. I cant interfere with a financial business legitimate 
commercial judgement. What I can do though is to check that Saga treated Mrs W fairly 
when it decided to discontinue personal accident insurance and that it didnt single her out in 
any way.  
So Ive first carefully considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mrs Ws 
contract with Saga (and the insurer). The terms and conditions define the period of 
insurance as 30 days from the commencement date as set out in the schedule and any 
further monthly periods for which the insurer accepts a premium. Theres also a section 
called When cover will end. While this says the policy may run up until the monthly renewal 
after a policyholders 90th birthday, it also says cover may end at: the date we cancel this 
insurance by giving you 30 days written notice. So I think the policy terms make it clear that 
the policy wont automatically cover a policyholder until theyre 90.
The policy also sets out cancellation rights. One of these says: We, or Saga Services 
Limited may cancel this policy by giving you 30 days notice by recorded delivery letter. We 
will send this notice to your last known address. I think then that the contract makes it clear 
that Saga can cancel the policy, so long as it provides 30 days written notice. So it wasnt 
obliged to carry on offering personal accident insurance indefinitely.
Saga has provided me with template copies of the letters it says were sent to Mrs W on 11 
and 29 July 2019 which explained that itd decided to discontinue personal accident 
insurance and that the policy would end shortly. Mrs Ws policy was ended with effect from 
30 September 2019. So Im satisfied that Saga gave her more than 30 days notice that her 
policy was going to end. This means I think Saga met its contractual obligation to let Mrs W 
know her policy would be cancelled and when. I also think this gave her over two months to 
look around for a replacement policy if she wished to. And as Saga sent this letter to all of its 
personal accident insurance customers, I think it treated Mrs W in the same way as any of its 
other customers in similar circumstances. As such, I dont think it singled her out or treated 
her unfairly.
Ive listened carefully to a call between Mrs W and Saga on 17 July 2019. Its clear Mrs W 
called Saga after receiving its first letter and that she understood the policy was going to be 
cancelled. The call handler reiterated that this was a business decision and she explained to 
Mrs W that she wouldnt be entitled to any refund of premiums for the years shed paid for 
the policy. There was no suggestion during the call that Saga would help Mrs W to find 
replacement cover or that it would write her a letter of good custom. Having listened to the 
call, Im satisfied Mrs W understood her policy would be ending, even though she was 
disappointed about this. On this basis, I dont think I could fairly find that Saga led Mrs W to 
believe that it would look for a new policy for it or support her in any new application.
I sympathise with Mrs W, because Im aware she suffered a painful accident. But as cover 
under her policy ended around three months before her accident, she simply isnt entitled to 
any settlement. And as Im satisfied Saga met its own obligations to Mrs W to let her know 
that the policy was ending, I dont think it needs to pay Mrs W any compensation.  Overall, I 
dont think Saga has done anything wrong which it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman