DRN-3688900
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) to 
transfer the benefits from his deferred defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to 
a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused 
a financial loss.
What happened
Mr B approached JLT around April 2009, following an introduction from his former employer,  
to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
JLT completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Bs circumstances and objectives. 
JLT also carried out an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
moderate. 
On 3 June 2009, JLT advised Mr B to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension 
and invest the proceeds in a series of funds designed to match his attitude to risk. But JLT 
said its recommendation was based on Mr B reinvesting the additional cash sum the scheme 
was offering into the new pension  it said if Mr B wanted to take the additional cash sum it 
recommended that Mr B didnt move his pension from the DB scheme. In summary the 
suitability report said the reason for this recommendation was based exclusively on whether 
the critical yield was achievable, which it said it was. It also said Mr B had the potential for 
greater lump sum death benefits and higher tax-free cash at retirement.
On 6 June 2009 Mr B signed the relevant paperwork and indicated on the Member Transfer 
Agreement Form that he wanted to take the additional cash sum rather than invest it into his 
new personal pension. On 12 June 2009 JLT sent Mr B a confirmation letter in which it said 
it had received his returned forms and it noted he wanted to transfer his benefits against its 
advice. 
The transfer completed in August 2009.
In 2021, following JLT informing Mr B that it was undertaking a review of the advice it had 
provided, Mr B complained about the suitability of the advice he received. In summary Mr B 
said he wasnt given a choice to remain in his DB scheme  he was advised it was 
compulsory to transfer out of his DB scheme.
JLT didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In summary it said the advice to transfer his pension 
benefits from his DB scheme was appropriate at the time. But it said the investment funds 
his monies were invested in were not in line with his personal circumstances. Despite this, it 
said having carried out a calculation Mr B hadnt been financially disadvantaged.
Mr B then referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
required JLT to pay compensation. In summary they said the advice to transfer wasnt 
suitable because it wasnt financially viable and there were no other compelling reasons to 
transfer. They said JLT carried out the transfer on the basis Mr B was an insistent client  
but they didnt think he was truly an insistent client because he wasnt in an informed 
position to fully understand the risks of transferring.
JLT disagreed. In summary it said it could find no basis for Mr Bs main complaint that he 
was under the impression that transferring was compulsory  the advice paperwork was 
clear that Mr B could remain a member of his DB scheme. It said Mr B told them that, as part 
of its review into the advice, his preferred retirement age was 65 not 60  but this wouldnt 
have impacted its advice at the time or Mr Bs decision to transfer out against its 
recommendation. It said its advice was clear that it did not recommend Mr B transfer out of 
his DB scheme if he opted to take the additional cash payment, which was repeated in its 
insistent client letter. It said the investigators view appears to mis-state the basis of the 
advice Mr B received. 
Referring to several phone calls Mr B had with JLT, it said Mr B made it clear on more than 
one occasion, including before he received the suitability report, that he wanted to transfer 
out. Overall it said Mr B was fully engaged in the process, he understood and accepted the 
risks involved and it was his decision to proceed against advice.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLT's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, JLT should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs 
best interests. 
A key aspect in this case is JLTs categorisation of Mr B as an insistent client - this is a client 
that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended and wants the 
business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. But there were COBS rules in the regulators Handbook, which required JLT 
to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In 
addition, COBS required JLT to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
So, JLTs recommendation had to be clear and Mr B had to have understood the 
consequences of going against the recommendation.
JLT says its advice was clear that it did not recommend Mr B transfer out of his DB scheme 
if he opted to take the additional cash payment. It says Mr B chose to go against the advice, 
something he made clear to JLT on several occasions. Mr B says he wasnt given a choice 
to remain in his DB scheme.
Having considered all of the evidence presented, I think there were weaknesses and failings 
in the advice process, which meant JLT didnt act in Mr Bs best interests. Ill explain why.
JLTs recommendation not to transfer if Mr B took the additional cash was solely based on 
the critical yield or the growth rate required to match Mr Bs DB scheme benefits. JLT gave 
no other reason. In this situation, and if JLT firmly believed in its advice, Id expect the 
emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the transfer was not in Mr Bs best 
interests. But the information here was limited to the growth required to match his existing 
benefits. Because of this I think Mr B had little information to go off to decide if being an 
insistent client was truly in his best interests.
I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests to go against JLTs recommendation  yet it 
appears JLT made it very easy for him to do so. I say this because Mr B simply had to tick a 
box on the transfer paperwork already enclosed with the recommendation letter to say that 
he wanted to take the additional cash amount. Mr B didnt need to do or complete anything 
else. And on the basis of this ticked box, JLT simply sent Mr B what appears to be a 
templated letter telling him it would process the application and transfer his benefits out of 
the DB scheme, but that it was against its advice.
I think it ought to have been clear to JLT that Mr B had very little knowledge or experience of 
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. I say this 
because Mr B indicated as much on the Personal Priorities Questionnaire. Im mindful too 
that Mr B was unemployed and he had health issues, which meant he couldnt work. So
Mr B couldnt add to his pension provision. I also think that in the circumstances Mr B was 
likely vulnerable. I think these things shouldve put JLT on notice that it had to be very 
careful if it was to take Mr B through the insistent client route.
As I said above, Mr B simply ticked a box on the transfer agreement form, which appears to 
have triggered the insistent client process. While I acknowledge it wasnt a requirement at 
the time, given Mr Bs level of inexperience, I think it wouldve been important for JLT to 
ensure he understood what he was getting into. 
And a good way to have done this wouldve been to see in his own words that he understood 
the recommendation being made and why he wanted to proceed. But JLT didnt do this and it proceeded to facilitate the transfer. I dont think this was acting in Mr Bs best interests.
I can see that JLT has referred to one of a series of phone calls Mr B had with it over the 
course of the advice process in which it says Mr B was clear that he wanted to transfer and 
take the additional cash sum. But firstly this phone call was before Mr B received the 
recommendation, so he hadnt yet had the opportunity to understand and consider JLTs 
advice, which he was seeking. And secondly from listening to all of the phone calls, Im 
concerned that Mr Bs actions of wanting to take the additional cash sum in his hands 
appear to have been driven to a greater extent by emotive feelings he held about his 
previous employer. I think this was JLTs opportunity to explain to Mr B that the DB scheme 
wasnt run by the same people he might have held bad feeling towards, and to help him put 
aside any emotions or feelings about his previous employer in making his decision about 
what to do. But JLT didnt do this.
Also, during one of the phone calls in which there was a discussion about Mr Bs AVCs and 
his concern about what would happen to them as part of the transfer, JLT told him that his 
AVC would also transfer shortly after. Later on in the call, Mr B then told JLT that he would 
take the additional cash lump sum because the transfer of his AVCs would make up the 
difference. But this wasnt the case because I can see that the transfer value already 
included Mr Bs AVCs  these accounted for just under £6,000 of the total value. So it 
seems that Mr B was mis-led here.
Overall I dont think Mr B was able to make an informed choice here  it seems to me that he 
most likely went ahead with the transfer along with taking the additional cash sum as he 
believed it seemed like a good idea. And also because of negative feelings he had towards 
his previous employer, coupled with a misbelief that his AVCs would make up for him taking 
the additional cash sum - neither of which were dispelled or corrected by JLT.
Notwithstanding the above, a key reason why I dont think Mr B was in a position to make an 
informed decision, is because ultimately I dont think JLTs recommendation that Mr B should 
transfer the benefits from his DB scheme to a personal pension if he re-invested the entire 
additional cash sum was suitable. So it follow that, even if Mr B had accepted JLTs advice, I 
dont think this wouldve been in his best interests either.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr B was 51 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 60. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Bs benefits at age 60 was 5.8% if he took a tax-free cash sum and a reduced 
pension. 
This compares with the discount rate of 6.3% per year for 8 years to retirement in this case 
at the time of the advice. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs 
recorded medium or balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view 
there would be little point in Mr B giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. On the face of it, because the critical yield of 5.8% is below the discount rate it might appear 
a transfer was financially viable and, so based on this alone, it was suitable. But firstly Im 
not persuaded that Mr B was prepared to accept a medium or balanced level of investment 
risk. I say this because Mr B had a lack of any real investment experience and when he 
completed the personal priorities questionnaire, he ticked two boxes to describe his 
objectives for his pension  he was risk averse and he was prepared to tolerate a small 
amount of risk. It was during a telephone call in which JLT sought to clarify things that a 
balanced approach was recorded. But I consider it would be more appropriate for Mr Bs 
attitude to risk to be somewhere between the two answers he initially gave  so a cautious or 
low attitude to risk. I think this is also supported by Mr Bs low capacity for loss  he didnt 
have any other assets and he wasnt likely to work again and have the opportunity of 
building up further pension provision. Im also mindful of the relatively short period to Mr Bs 
intended retirement age of 60.
So in light of this, to have come close to achieving the level of growth required, in my view  it 
would have required Mr B to take a greater level of risk than he was prepared to take. 
But notwithstanding this, even if I thought Mr B was prepared to accept his recorded attitude 
to risk of medium or balanced, at the time of the transfer a couple of months later - shortly 
after Mr Bs birthday  the discount rate was 5.6% for 7 years to retirement. So given the 
critical yield was marginally above this rate, I think Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a 
lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement  or at best broadly the same benefits 
 as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. It would appear the term to 
retirement was a limiting factor here.
Overall, I think JLT ought to have told Mr B that it wasnt in his best interests to transfer out 
of the DB scheme even if he reinvested the additional cash sum because I think its clear 
that the returns needed to improve on his scheme benefits werent compatible with his 
attitude to risk. And for this reason alone, I dont think the advice to transfer out was suitable. 
That said, I accept there might be other considerations which mean the transfer was 
nevertheless suitable, and Ive considered these below.
Maximum tax-free cash lump sum
Its recorded that Mr B wanted the maximum possible tax-free lump sum at retirement to 
repay debts including his mortgage. But JLT didnt gather any information about Mr Bs debts 
to understand for example how much was outstanding and what the remaining term or terms 
were on any debts. So JLT didnt know whether Mr Bs debts, including his mortgage would 
still be running at his normal retirement age. Because JLT didnt understand this,  it didnt 
know that Mr Bs DB scheme tax-free cash entitlement of around £20,000 wasnt going to be 
enough. Its possible that Mr B could have achieved his objective by staying in the DB 
scheme. 
So Im not persuaded that Mr Bs objective of wanting the maximum cash lump sum possible 
at retirement was a suitable reason for the transfer.
Income needs
JLT also didnt know Mr Bs income need at retirement. And crucially it didnt know whether 
Mr B had other provision or whether hed be solely reliant on his DB scheme for his income 
in retirement. 
I can see that JLT noted this in its recommendation letter saying that it might be more 
attractive to keep your pension with [X]... as you will retain the guarantees that are provided by the scheme.  So it appears JLT wasnt confident in its advice because it didnt have 
everything that it reasonably needed to know to decide whether a transfer was in Mr Bs best 
interests  yet it proceeded to recommend the transfer anyway. JLBs role here was to really 
understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interests. Because JLB 
didnt do that Im not persuaded the recommendation was suitable. 
Overall Ive found no compelling reasons for Mr B to transfer out of his DB scheme.
Summary
Overall, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, 
risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was very likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits  or at best broadly the same - and in my view, there were no other 
particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.
So, I think JLT shouldve advised Mr B to remain in his DB scheme regardless of any 
additional cash lump sum on offer.
Of course, I have to consider if things had happened as they should have whether Mr B 
would've gone ahead anyway, against JLT's advice. As I said earlier on, JLT says this 
wouldve been the case because Mr B said so during a phone call.
Having done so, I dont think Mr B wouldve gone ahead in any event and insisted on 
transferring out of his DB scheme. I say this because, as I referred to earlier on Mr B was an 
inexperienced investor and it seems likely that this pension accounted for the majority of his 
retirement provision. Im not persuaded Mr B needed the additional cash lump sum to repay 
debts immediately  JLT didnt know what debts Mr B had and theres no evidence he was in 
arrears or they were otherwise unaffordable. As I also said above, I think Mr Bs actions 
were driven by negative feelings he had towards his previous employer and a misbelief that 
his AVCs would make up for him taking the additional cash sum - neither of which were 
dispelled by JLT.
So if JLT had provided Mr B with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme 
regardless of any additional cash on offer, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him and why 
it was in his best interests given his circumstances to remain in the DB scheme, including 
addressing his concerns about his previous employer, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. I think Mr B wouldve accepted that advice  I dont think Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think JLT should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance / rules to be published. 
Mr B has said that he cannot make a choice. In the circumstances, Im going to treat this as 
if Mr B didnt make a choice. So as set out previously, Ive assumed in this case Mr B 
doesnt want to wait for any new guidance. 
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr B.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for JLT Wealth Management Limited to put Mr B, 
as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for JLT Wealth Management 
Limiteds unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have most likely remained in his DB 
scheme if suitable advice had been given.
JLT Wealth Management Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr B has not yet retired, and he told JLT that his intended retirement age is 65 
So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
JLT Wealth Management Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date JLT Wealth Management 
Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes JLT 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect JLT Wealth Management Limited to carry out a 
calculation in line with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Financial 
Management Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
JLT Financial Management Limited to pay  any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require JLT 
Financial Management Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
JLT Financial Management Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Financial 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman