DRN-3248961
The complaint
Mrs R complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited was responsible for a 
lengthy delay in paying benefits to her that had been accrued under a pension policy she 
held.
What happened
Mrs R has been assisted in making this complaint by her husband. But in this decision, for 
ease, I will generally refer to all communication as being from, and to, Mrs R herself.
Mrs R was a member of an occupational pension scheme. Alongside that scheme she paid 
additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) into a pension plan that was administered by 
Prudential. Mrs R was made redundant by her employer in early 2020 and took her 
occupational pension benefits. Under the rules of her AVC scheme she was required to take 
those benefits at the same time.
In January 2020 the administrator of Mrs Rs occupational pension scheme wrote to 
Prudential to request that the AVC benefits were paid to her as a tax-free sum. It completed 
Prudentials application form on Mrs Rs behalf and provided details of her bank account to 
receive the payment at the same time. But the form also contained a mistake  it said that 
Mrs R was taking her retirement benefits flexibly, and it was unknown whether she would 
continue to contribute to the AVC.
Prudential sought confirmation of the application information from the administrator. Its 
records show that it made telephone contact in February and March 2020. And it sent an 
email asking for further information in April 2020. But the matter then appears to have been 
overlooked, and it wasnt until January 2021 that the administrator of Mrs Rs former 
occupational scheme got back in touch with Prudential. At that time Prudential paid the value 
of the AVC benefits to Mrs R as had been requested the year before.
Mrs R complained to Prudential about the time it had taken to pay her pension benefits. But 
Prudential was unable to answer that complaint in a reasonable length of time. So she 
brought her complaint to this Service.
Before we had the opportunity to consider the complaint, Prudential sent its response to 
Mrs R. Prudential accepted that it should have done more to expedite the payment, and 
should have made Mrs R aware of the delays in receiving information from the administrator 
of the occupational scheme towards the end of March 2020. It thought that meant that the 
AVC benefits would have been paid to Mrs R in early April 2020. 
So Prudential looked at what Mrs Rs AVC benefits would have been worth at that time, 
compared to what she had been paid the following year. And it paid Mrs R some interest for 
the time she had been without those funds. Prudential also paid £500 to Mrs R for the 
inconvenience shed been caused, and later paid a further £100 for an error it had made in 
its final response letter about whether she had rights to refer the complaint to either us, or 
The Pensions Ombudsman. Mrs R told us that she didnt think that compensation was 
sufficient, so we continued to look into her complaint.
Mrs Rs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He explained that he was 
only able to consider the actions of Prudential, and not those of the occupational pension 
scheme administrator. He thought that Prudential had fairly assessed how long Mrs Rs 
pension payment should have taken, if Prudential had done all that it should have. And, 
taking that into account, he thought that the compensation Prudential had paid to Mrs R was 
fair and reasonable. So he didnt think Prudential needed to do anything more.
Mrs R didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs R and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think it would first be right that I set out the aspects of this complaint that I am able to 
consider. To a large extent Mrs R was somewhat in the middle of actions between Prudential 
and the administrators of her occupational scheme. There was little she could do to progress 
matters since Prudential needed to take its instructions from the occupational scheme 
administrators. And I have no doubts how frustrating that was for Mrs R, when she was 
attempting to put her AVC benefits into payment, at a time when she was facing great 
uncertainty over her working situation.
As I will go on to explain, it is clear, and accepted by Prudential, that it didnt do all it might 
have done to assist Mrs R and ensure her pension benefits were paid in a timely manner. 
But at times Prudential was reliant on the actions of the occupational scheme administrator. 
And I dont think it right that Prudential should be held responsible for any failures of that 
third party.  The situation is further complicated by the fact that I dont have the jurisdiction to 
deal with any complaint against the occupational scheme administrator  that would fall to 
The Pensions Ombudsman. So, it might be necessary for Mrs R to consider making a further 
complaint about the occupational scheme administrator to The Pensions Ombudsman.
When it first received Mrs Rs application Prudential said it was unable to process it for two 
reasons. The application form that Prudential received from the occupational scheme 
administrator on behalf of Mrs R contained an error  it said Mrs R was taking her pension 
benefits flexibly. And Prudential also thought that it hadnt been provided with Mrs Rs bank 
account details. That however was incorrect  although the bank account details were not on 
its main application form, they had been provided separately to the form.I do have some questions over how serious the error on the application form was, and 
whether it was such that Prudential should have stopped processing Mrs Rs application. 
The form indicated that Mrs R was taking her retirement benefits flexibly, and so Prudential 
wanted to consider whether it needed to leave her AVC plan open. But I think the form was 
clear that Mrs R wanted to take all her pension savings accrued to date at that time. I dont 
however think that Prudential, at first, acted unreasonably in seeking further clarification from 
the occupational scheme administrator.
I can see that Prudential made telephone contact with the occupational scheme 
administrator on 12 February and 18 March. Its notes from each call record that the 
occupational scheme administrator had agreed to send some further, or corrected, 
information about Mrs Rs intentions. I dont think, given that the administrator had agreed to 
provide that information, that it was unreasonable for Prudential to await its receipt before 
progressing Mrs Rs application.
But Prudential didnt receive anything further from the occupational scheme administrator. 
So it sent an email on 13 April asking for clarification about Mrs Rs intentions. Again no 
response was received to that email, and the matter appears to have been forgotten by both 
Prudential and the occupational scheme administrator until Mrs R managed to get both 
parties to restart the processing early in 2021.
Prudential has set out, for Mrs R and us, a timeline of what it thinks should have happened. 
In brief it thinks that it should have started asking the occupational scheme administrator for 
more information sooner than it did. And when it didnt get the further information it had 
asked for after a second phone call it should have got in touch with Mrs R to alert her to the 
problem so that she could intervene. Prudential says that would have meant that the AVC 
benefits would have been paid to Mrs R in early April 2020.
Ive thought carefully about what Prudential has said here. As Ive set out above I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Prudential to contact the occupational scheme administrator to seek 
clarification on Mrs Rs application. And so a period of time would have elapsed whilst that 
information was awaited. And I dont think it unreasonable that Prudential might have made 
a second, and final, attempt to seek that information. But when that second attempt failed, 
I agree with Prudential that it should have made direct contact with Mrs R to notify her of the 
delays.
So, on balance I cannot conclude that the hypothetical timeline that Prudential has set out 
for Mrs R is unreasonable. It seems fair that a period of time should be allowed following the 
receipt of the application for Prudential to attempt to seek clarification from the occupational 
scheme administrator. I dont think a period of four weeks before chasing the request, and 
another four weeks to await a response to the second request is unreasonable. And then a 
short period of time to allow for the payment to be made is in line with what Id expect to 
happen. So I agree with Prudentials estimate that a payment date of 2 April 2020 would 
have been acceptable given the lack of response from the occupational scheme 
administrator.
Prudential has calculated the difference in the value of Mrs Rs AVC savings at that date, 
compared with the value when her benefits were actually paid in February 2021. There was 
a modest increase in the value that Mrs R actually received. But there was a lengthy period 
of time whilst Mrs R was waiting for the funds to arrive. I think it right that Prudential has paid 
Mrs R interest, at a rate of 8% simple, on the amount she would have been paid in 
April 2020 for that period of time, less the uplift in the value of her benefits. So I think the 
financial compensation Prudential has paid to Mrs R is fair and reasonable.There is no doubt that the delay in Mrs Rs AVC benefits being paid to her caused her a 
considerable amount of distress and inconvenience. So I am pleased to see that Prudential 
has made an additional payment of £500 to Mrs R to reflect that. A payment of that size is in 
line with what I would recommend in circumstances such as these. And I note, though not 
directly related to Mrs Rs specific complaint, that Prudential has paid some further 
compensation for an error it made in one of the response letters it sent to her.
I am sure that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs R. The delay to her AVC payment 
took place at the same time as a significant market downturn caused by the start of the 
coronavirus pandemic. So the amount she received, or even that Prudential calculated 
would have been paid in April 2020, was much less than if the payment had been made 
when the application was first made. But I dont think it was unreasonable for Prudential to 
seek additional information. And I think that the time that would have reasonably been taken 
for it to be provided would have meant that Mrs Rs payment would have been delayed past 
the falls in the market anyway.
In summary, I think that the compensation Prudential has already paid to Mrs R, both in 
respect of her financial losses and her inconvenience, fairly reflects the delays that were the 
responsibility of Prudential. So I dont think Prudential needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint as I consider the redress already 
paid by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to be fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman