DRN-3741167
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW FS) dealt with the 
arrears that had accrued following the payment deferral hed been granted as a result of the 
Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW FS. The agreement was for a period of five years; with 60 monthly repayments of 
£328.
Mr A said he contacted BMW FS in August 2020 to ask for a payment deferral as his income 
had been affected due to circumstances arising from the Covid-19 pandemic. He said he 
contacted them again in March 2021 as his circumstances hadnt changed. He said they 
agreed he could pay £1 a month for three months. Hes unhappy that they then didnt 
contact him until March 2022 when the arrears had increased to more than £6,000.
BMW FS said Mr A applied for three month payment deferral in August 2020 as he was 
experiencing financial difficulty due to Covid 19. They said a second payment deferral 
request was received in December 2020. They said they granted a payment deferral for the 
six months from September 2020 to February 2021.
They said Mr A contacted them in March 2021 as he was unable to make the full agreed 
monthly repayments. They said they agreed he could pay £1 a month for three months whilst 
he was reviewing his financial circumstances. They said they had asked him to contact them 
to let them know how what he wanted to do to make the payments going forward.
They said Mr A only made one of these payments and didnt contact them to let them know if 
he could continue with the agreement. They said they continued to send him notices of sums 
in arrears telling him how much was outstanding and asking him to contact them.
They told Mr A they werent willing to waive the arrears as he remained liable for the 
payments due under the agreement and he had continued to have use of the car.
Unhappy with this, Mr A brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He said that he was satisfied that BMW FS 
had provide support to Mr A in line with the guidance issued by the FCA, the industry 
regulator, in April 2020: Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for 
firms. He said hed seen that BMW FS had contacted Mr A after the payment deferral period 
as hed seen the notice of sums in arrears letters theyd sent.  He said BMW FS had acted 
within their obligations under the FCA guidance, and showed appropriate forbearance by 
allowing Mr A to reduce his payments for a further three months. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said he did not receive any 
correspondence from BMW FS. He said medical conditions prevented him contacting them, 
and queried why they waited 12 months to call him.
He said he was happy to make the regular payments due and wanted them to extend the 
end date of the agreement. He said he couldnt afford to make the increase payments they 
are seeking. He said hed be willing to pay a little extra each month. He said this had had a 
big effect on his health and stress levels.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
Payment deferral requests
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance, 
that came into effect on 27 April 2020, for customers who were faced with payment 
difficulties as a result of Covid-19. The purpose of the guidance was to provide exceptional 
and immediate support to customers facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising 
out of coronavirus.
The FCA issued updated guidance in November 2020. This stated that further payment 
deferrals should be considered up to the end of March 2021, and they should not extend 
beyond the end of July 2021. The guidance also said that customers should benefit from 
payment deferral of up to six monthly payments in total.
At the same time, the FCA issued Tailored Support Guidance. This was to help firms provide 
continued support to customers, like Mr A, who were still affected by the Covid 19 pandemic, 
and were no longer eligible for a payment deferral.
BMW FS granted Mr A with a payment deferral covering the six month period from 
September 2020 to February 2021. This was in line with the expectations set out by the FCA 
in its guidance. So BMW FS did what I wouldve expected them to do.
On 22 February 2021 they contacted him by email to remind him that the payment deferral 
period was coming to an end, and that payments would restart in March 2021. This 
notification informed him that further deferrals were not available. It also said that Mr A 
should contact them if he was still in financial difficulties.
Mr A called BMW FS after the full contractual payment for March 2021 was taken from his 
bank account. In this call he told BMW FS he was still in financial difficulty. BMW FS 
explained how he could reverse that payment so that the funds would be available to him.His income and expenditure was discussed in this call. BMW FS had concerns that the 
agreement was no longer affordable but Mr A reassured them that he gets help from family 
when needed, and had access to an overdraft facility. They also agreed he could pay £1 a 
month for the next three months, March 2021 to May 2021, to allow him more time to review 
his financial position. Again, this is the type of support expected by the FCA in its Tailored 
Support Guidance.
Mr A says he expected BMW FS to call him in June 2021, after the payment plan period had 
ended. Ive listened to the call Mr A made to BMW FS on 15 March 2021. In this call it was 
agreed that Mr A would make three monthly payments of £1. 
BMW FS then set out for Mr A what would happen next. They explained why he would need 
to make the three payments of £1 manually. They then said that Mr A needed to contact 
them by 15 May 2021 so they could review his situation, or sooner. They said this more than 
once in the call. And Mr A specifically asked when he needed to contact them by  and he 
was told 15 May 2021.
BMW FS ended the call with a summary of what had been agreed, and this included the 
requirement for Mr A to contact them by 15 May 2021. Mr A acknowledged this in the call.
Mr A didnt contact BMW FS as agreed. They sent him five letters, including Notices of Sums 
in Arrears sent in March 2021, August 2021 and January 2022. The contents of these 
notices are prescribed in the legislation. They provide important information for consumers 
like Mr A, including why they are in breach of the agreement. In his case, the notices 
informed Mr A that he was in arrears, and the amount of the arrears. They also sent him 
statements in June 2021 and December 2021, both showing the arrears that had accrued on 
the agreement. 
Mr A said he didnt receive the letters. Ive seen copies of the letters, and BMW FS system 
notes that showed them being produced. They all have the home address that Mr A provided 
to us. So Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that the letters were posted to Mr As 
home address by BMW FS.
But even if I were to accept that he didnt get them, I think there was a responsibility on Mr A 
to make contact with BMW FS. I say that because he still had use of the car, and had 
continued to use it. I accept that he said he was suffering through ill health during this time, 
but he should have been aware that he wasnt making any payments, he knew he hadnt 
made two of the £1 payments hed agreed to pay, and he was expecting BMWFS to call him 
 so when they didnt, Id have expected him to call them.
The purpose of the guidance issued by the FCA was to help customers experiencing 
temporary payment difficulties, for a temporary period only. It expected firms to provide 
exceptional and immediate support to customers like Mr A. This was to allow them time to 
make alternative arrangements. 
Mr A has been in arrears since the first payment deferral was granted in September 2020. 
He failed to make the payments due in April 2021 and May 2021 that hed agreed under the 
£1 a month payment plan. And he didnt make any payments towards the agreement after 
March 2021.
Im satisfied that BMW FS have treated Mr A fairly and in line with the expectations set by 
the FCA. They provided him with payment deferrals for six months, agreed a further 
temporary payment plan and gave him enough time to agree an affordable payment plan. 
They kept him informed of the amount due on the account, and sent him the statutory 
notices informing him of the status of the agreement. If Mr A now wants to clear the arrears Id expect BMW FS to consider his current financial 
situation and treat him with appropriate forbearance when considering an affordable 
payment plan. 
If BMW FS concludes that Mr A may no longer be able to afford the agreement, its 
reasonable that they present him with the options to terminate the agreement early, including 
voluntary surrender and voluntary termination. It would be unfair and unreasonable to expect 
BMW FS to keep an agreement open ended without any reasonable affordable payment 
plan in place.
I think this is fair and wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman