DRN-3777280
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about problems when they ported their mortgage with Santander UK 
Plc. Mr J has dealt with the complaint. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J applied to port their mortgage with Santander, and Santander issued a 
mortgage offer in September 2021.
Mr J raised a number of complaints about the way Santander dealt with their application. Our 
investigator said some of these were brought to us outside our time limits and we cant look 
into them. This matter has proceeded on the basis this service will look into the parts of Mr 
and Mrs Js complaints that the investigator said were brought to us within our time limits. 
These are, in summary that: 
Santander gave Mr J incorrect information about when the mortgage offer would expire. 
Mr J says this resulted in him taking out a new two-year fixed rate product with an early 
repayment charge (ERC) of about £14,000. 
Mr J asked for a different mortgage adviser.
Santander released mortgage funds twice in relation to the same property. Mr J says this 
shows a lack of control and responsibilities when dealing with customers.
Santander acknowledged it gave Mr J incorrect information about the expiry of the mortgage 
offer. It paid £50 for this, which our investigator said was fair. Our investigator said 
Santander didnt need to take further steps in relation to Mr and Mrs Js other complaints. He 
said it agreed to change the mortgage adviser when Mr J requested this, and while the 
release of funds twice was an error, the solicitor returned the funds and this hadnt affected 
Mr and Mrs J.
Mr J said the investigator hadnt understood the situation. He said Santander gave false 
advice and his loss far exceeded £50. He said if he hadnt been misled about the offer expiry 
date he wouldnt have taken out a new fixed rate product. He said if hed known his 
mortgage product would expire in January 2022 hed have waited and left Santander due to 
its numerous failings. Mr J said paying the mortgage funds twice was a serious failing. Mr J 
says Santander made breaches of contract, regulations and its duty of care and didnt treat 
them fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js complaint that Santander gave him incorrect information about when the mortgage 
offer would expire 
Mr and Mrs J were porting an existing mortgage product and taking out additional borrowing 
with a new mortgage product. Santander issued a mortgage offer in September 2021. The 
mortgage offer expired in early March 2022. However, Mr and Mrs Js existing mortgage 
product was due to expire at the end of December 2021. In November 2021 Mr J told 
Santander he didnt expect their sale and purchase to complete until mid-January 2022. 
Santander agreed to extend the existing mortgage product to mid-January 2022, to allow 
time for the purchase to complete. 
Mr J called Santander in early December 2021. He was told the mortgage offer would expire 
in early March 2022. He wasnt told their existing product would expire in mid-January 2022. 
Mr and Mrs J took out a new fixed rate product with an ERC. Mr J made a complaint in early 
January 2022 that hed taken out the new fixed rate product as a result of being given 
incorrect information about the expiry of the mortgage offer. He says the ERC he agreed 
when he took out the product meant he couldnt re-mortgage away from Santander as he 
says he wanted to do.
Santander should have given Mr J clearer information about the mortgage offer and when it, 
and the existing product, would expire. But I dont think it follows that it was responsible for 
Mr and Mrs Js decision to take out a new product with an ERC. Mr and Mrs J must have 
known their product had expired (or was about to expire) when they decided to take out a 
new fixed rate product to replace it. If, as they say, they wanted to get away from Santander 
they could have taken out a product without an ERC or remained on the standard variable 
rate while they applied for a mortgage elsewhere or took advice from a mortgage broker. 
According to Santanders records Mr J told it in early January 2022 he was concerned the 
purchase wouldnt complete before the mortgage offer expired in early March 2022. So it 
seems there would have been time for them to apply elsewhere if they wanted to do so. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to find that Santander is responsible for Mr and Mrs Js 
decision to take out a new product with an ERC, or to require it to pay compensation for this. 
Santander paid £50 for its error which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Js complaint about requesting a different mortgage adviser
Mr J asked for a different mortgage adviser and Santander arranged this. I think that was a 
fair response in the circumstances. 
Mr Js complaint about Santander releasing the mortgage funds twice
Santander said Mr Js solicitor provided the account number for the previous mortgage offer 
when they requested funds, and this resulted in funds being released twice. The solicitor 
returned the funds. Santander says this wasnt an error on its part. Mr J says its wrong for 
Santander to blame his solicitor and the problem lies with its systems. 
Either way, I cant see that this affected Mr and Mrs J such that Santander needs to take 
further action. The transfer of additional funds to the solicitor didnt result in an additional 
mortgage account being opened in Mr and Mrs Js names, in them borrowing more than they 
requested or in any incorrect information being recorded on their credit file. Accordingly, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to take any further steps.
I cant see that Mr and Mrs Js data has been mis-used or put at risk. If Mr J remains 
concerned about this he can consider contacting ICO.
Mr Js complaints about breaches of regulations, contracts, its duty of care and treating him fairly.
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. We arent a regulator. We dont have the 
powers of a regulator and I cant fine Santander or fairly require it to make changes to its 
systems. Nor can we make a ruling as to whether a contract has been breached or a law has 
been broken  thats a matter for a court. What I can consider is whether Santander treated 
Mr and Mrs J fairly, and if not if its done enough to put matters right. 
While Santander made an error when it didnt give Mr J clear information about when the 
mortgage offer would expire, for the reasons Ive given I think the compensation it paid for 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman