DRN-2204657
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A has handled a cancellation claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S booked a holiday in November 2018. He was planning to share a villa with friends and
excursions had been booked. He was due to travel on 20 February 2019. On 17 February
2019, Mr S took out a travel insurance policy to cover the trip.
Early on the morning Mr S was due to travel, he developed gastroenteritis. So he didnt
travel as planned. He made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the costs hed incurred.
He provided Mapfre with a medical certificate signed by his GP; evidence of some of the
payments hed made to his friends and his pre-printed boarding pass.
Mapfre had some concerns about the fact Mr S had bought the policy so close to his
departure date. It passed the claim to its Special Investigations Team, which wanted to
conduct a telephone interview with Mr S about his claim.
Mr S refused to take part in the interview. He said he didnt have the time to do it and hed
provided all the documentation he had to support his claim. He wanted Mapfre to put its
questions in writing. Mapfre maintained that Mr S needed to be interviewed before it would
progress the claim. So Mr S asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. She felt Mr S hadnt provided
enough information to substantiate his claim. She thought it was reasonable for Mapfre to
want to conduct an interview as part of its claim process. She couldnt see a reason that
would prevent Mr S from taking part in the interview.
Mr S disagreed. In summary, he didnt think the policy terms and conditions stipulated when
a policyholder needed to buy a policy. Hed spotted a good deal and gone for it. He said if
hed planned to cancel his trip, hed have likely bought a policy with a £0 excess. He was
unhappy that Mapfre was treating him as if his claim wasnt genuine. He felt Mapfre was
using underhand tactics to avoid paying out on his claim.
I issued my provisional decision on 5 August 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think Mapfre had treated Mr S fairly. I said:
When Mr S submitted his claim the burden of proof was on him to demonstrate that he had 
a valid claim. So its his responsibility to ensure that he provides enough evidence to show 
his claim is valid.
It isnt for our service to determine Mapfres claim handling process. Its common industry
practice for insurers to use telephone interviews to get more information about a claim.
Although the policy terms dont specifically reference that a telephone interview may be
required, it doesnt automatically follow that Mr S can refuse to comply with that request. It's
not for Mr S to determine the process or decide whether or not or he engages with it. So it is
unfortunate that Mr S refused to engage with Mapfre to resolve this issue.
However, I have taken into account whether in the circumstances of Mr S case it was fair
and reasonable for Mapfre to request a phone interview based on the evidence that they
had. Having done so, I dont think it was. Ill explain why.
Mr S travel insurance policy covers cancellation costs if a policyholder becomes ill and isnt
able to travel. Mr S has provided Mapfre with a medical certificate, completed by his GP
which shows that he consulted her on 20 February 2019 (the day he was due to travel) with
gastroenteritis. On the certificate, the GP said symptoms had begun on 19th February 2019,
although she later issued a letter of clarification to confirm Mr S symptoms had actually
begun on 20 February 2019. She said she hadnt advised cancellation because Mr S had
already cancelled the trip. But she ticked a box on the form to confirm that in her opinion, Mr
S had been compelled to cancel the trip solely because of the gastroenteritis.
On the face of things, Mr S has a claim for cancellation on the basis of his illness, which has
been certified and supported by a medical professional.
Mapfre told Mr S it needed a telephone interview with him because it had concerns about the
timing of his purchase of the policy. I accept it was bought three days before Mr S was due
to travel. But the medical evidence hes provided shows his symptoms didnt start until 20
February 2019. Even if the symptoms had begun on 19 February, as the medical certificate
originally said, this would still be after Mr S had bought the policy on 17 February. So based
on the evidence Ive seen, theres no medical evidence to suggest Mr S was already ill when
he bought the policy.
There isnt a requirement to buy travel insurance at a given time before a trip starts. In some
cases, it might be reasonable for an insurer to have concerns about the proximity of buying a
policy to a cancellation. But in this case, I havent so far seen any evidence to suggest Mr S
bought the policy with the intention of claiming for cancellation. Hes provided his boarding
pass, which suggests to me that he intended to fly as planned on his trip. And I find his
explanation for the delay in buying travel insurance reasonable.
The policy does require a policyholder to provide documentation to support their claim. Mr S
has sent Mapfre a medical certificate showing cancellation was medically necessary. Hes
provided a letter from his airline showing he didnt fly as planned. And hes demonstrated he
paid for at least some of the costs hes claiming for. It seems to me hes complied with the
policy terms.
So it isnt clear to me exactly what Mapfres concerns are or why it isnt prepared to consider
the claim without a telephone interview. And indeed what it aims to discover through such a
call. I particularly bear in mind that Mr S appeared to have developed gastroenteritis which is
something that can arise quickly and without warning. So, whilst there was a short gap
between the policy being taken out and the claim, Im satisfied with Mr S explanation of this
as its consistent with the medical evidence.
Based on all of this information I dont think it was fair of Mapfre to insist on a phone
interview given the nature of Mr Ss condition, his testimony and the available medical
evidence.
Mapfre may require further information from Mr S friends about the costs hes paid out
before dealing with the claim. I wouldnt necessarily think that was unreasonable. But based
on all Ive seen, theres no evidence to suggest that Mr S bought the policy knowing he was
already unwell. Hes evidenced that he didnt travel. It seems more likely he bought the
policy in good faith and was simply unlucky to develop symptoms when he did.So I currently plan to direct Mapfre to consider the claim based on the information it currently
has, in line with the policy terms and conditions and without the need for a telephone
interview.
I asked both parties to send me anything more they wanted me to consider.
Mr S said he had nothing further to add.
Mapfre confirmed it accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr S had nothing more to add and Mapfre accepted my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr S complaint.
I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A to
consider Mr S claim based on the information it has and without the need for a telephone
interview.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman