DRN-3097740
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are complaining about how Bank of Scotland Plc have handled their mortgage 
account. 
Mr S has been managing this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife. 
What happened
I issued my provisional findings on this case to both parties which Ive copied below and 
form part of this final decision. 
Provisional decision
Background
Mr and Mrs Ss history with this complaint is detailed and having reviewed the file its
possible to see that theyve been in contact with Bank of Scotland over several years in
relation to various concerns relating to their mortgage arrangements.
Ive noted Bank of Scotland addressed Mr and Mrs Ss concerns through final response
letters dated 21 December 2012, 24 August 2016, 14 August 2017 and 31 July 2018.
Mr and Mrs S first raised their complaint to us about their Bank of Scotland mortgage on 29
March 2017. The investigator that reviewed those concerns concluded Mr and Mrs S had
brought their complaint too late for our service to consider. Our investigator wrote to Mr and
Mrs S on 2 May 2017 to explain their conclusions and as Mr and Mrs S didnt take this any
further, that complaint was closed (under a separate case reference).
For context only, in August 2017 Mr and Mrs S raised a complaint with our service about a
different business.
On 2 October 2018 Mr and Mrs S contacted our service (under this case reference) to raise
concerns again about Bank of Scotlands handling of their mortgage.
The investigator that reviewed these concerns concluded that much of the complaint Mr and
Mrs S had brought to our service related to the same issues raised to us in March 2017
which wed said were not in our jurisdiction as they had been brought too late.
The investigator explained there was only a small part of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint we could
consider. The investigator upheld that part of the complaint and while Bank of Scotland
accepted the investigators findings, Mr and Mrs S did not. The complaint was therefore
moved to the next stage of our casework process.
Below is a summary of the events that caused Mr and Mrs S to raise their complaints.
In 2004 Mr and Mrs S arranged a residential mortgage with Bank of Scotland which included
flexible features such as a drawdown facility (or cheque book facility) and the ability to take
payment holidays.
Bank of Scotland have said that in 2008 Mr and Mrs Ss account was in arrears in March,
August and October. Because of this Mr and Mrs S were sent a letter in March 2008 to
explain that the flexible features of the mortgage had been removed. Bank of Scotland are
no longer able to produce a copy of this letter given the time thats passed, but have shown
a further letter confirming the removal of the flexible features in 2013 had included a copy of
the 2008 letter.
In 2012 Mr and Mrs S approached Bank of Scotland to discuss how they could manage their
payments for three months in October, November and December 2012. Mr and Mrs S say
they left this discussion on the understanding they had agreed to a payment holiday which
would not affect their credit files. However, they later learned Bank of Scotland had recorded
these missed payments as arrears on their credit files and this led to the first complaint.
Mr S says he began making payments towards the mortgage again in January 2013, but the
above arrears continued to show on their credit files until they were capitalised in late 2014.
Bank of Scotland say that soon after the arrears were capitalised there were some further
missed payments.
In early 2015 Mr and Mrs S sought finance to purchase a property at auction. Mr S says they
were unable to obtain high street lending due to the arrears reported on their credit files, so
he had to arrange a bridging loan instead. It was Mr and Mrs Ss intention to sell their
existing property and move into the newly purchased property.
However, Mr and Mrs S were unable to repay the bridging loan when required and the
finance company sought repossession to collect the loan. Therefore, in early 2016 Mr and
Mrs S returned to Bank of Scotland to again raise their concerns about what had previously
happened with their mortgage which they believed had led to the position they now found
themselves in.
Bank of Scotland considered the complaint and issued a final response letter dated 24
August 2016. This letter dealt with the following complaint points: that Mr and Mrs S should
not have been offered a nil payment arrangement in 2012, but rather a holiday payment; that
their credit files had been affected from October 2012 to July 2014 with the reporting of
ongoing arrears; that the flexible options linked to their mortgage had been removed without
notification; that not having access to the cheque book facility meant they had been unable
to refinance the bridging loan and that Bank of Scotland had not been in contact about the
threat of repossession. For the most part, the complaint was not upheld, but Bank of
Scotland apologised for a letter they sent to Mr and Mrs Ss solicitors in February 2013
which had referred to the drawdown facility on the mortgage when it shouldnt have.
Unhappy with Bank of Scotlands conclusions, Mr and Mrs S made their first contact with our
service in relation to this matter. And as described earlier, our investigator concluded they
had brought the complaint to our service out of time.
In addition to the above Mr and Mrs S were attempting to sell their home, but were struggling
to do so given part of their land needed to be sold in order for it to be more attractive to 
buyers. Theres a suggestion that Mr and Mrs S came close to selling the property with Bank
of Scotlands agreement to release the relevant security in 2013, but this ended up not going
ahead. So the process was started again.
Bank of Scotlands final response letter dated 14 August 2017 related to Mr and Mrs Ss
concerns about the requirements to provide particular information in order to proceed with
the request to release part of the security. Bank of Scotland didnt uphold this complaint andIve found no evidence that Mr and Mrs S brought this particular complaint to our service.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs S complained to Bank of Scotland about the withdrawal of the flexible
features of their mortgage which had therefore not been available to them in 2008 and 2014
and complained again about what had happened in 2012. Bank of Scotland responded to Mr
and Mrs Ss complaint on 31 July 2018. They said the events of 2012 had already been dealt
with in their replies from 2012 and 2016, so they were out of time to be considered. And they
commented that the removal of the flexible features had previously been confirmed to Mr
and Mrs S in 2008, and in 2013 which included a copy of the 2008 letter.
In October 2018 Mr S contacted our service again about his concerns with Bank of
Scotlands handling of the mortgage and this case reference was set up.
The investigator handling this case reviewed Mr and Mrs Ss concerns. The investigator
summarised that Mr and Mrs S had asked for the following points to be considered:
At no time did BOS give you notice of removing facilities from your mortgage 
account. 
The cheque facility was removed without any just cause and without the notice set 
out in the terms and conditions of the mortgage. 
You believe that if BOS hadnt removed the availability of the options on your 
mortgage and made the wrong statements relating to your credit file in 2012 you 
would have been able to sell your current home.
The bank refers to various letters sent to you over the last few years regarding the 
payments not being maintained and the flexible features therefore being removed, 
yet they havent been able to produce these letters. You say, theres no entry in the 
chronology of the account for the alleged dates. 
The impact on you of the banks actions was that you lost all spending powers at a 
time when you needed to refinance your commercial borrowing. The sale of your 
house also fell through because of the banks delays. There were also several 
financial losses and costs you incurred. 
You needed to transfer a [structure] that was on your land. BOS agreed to release 
this, but only if you gave up your options mortgage. You say they refused your use of 
the options previously yet were holding you to ransom to give them up. 
The investigator considered that only the last complaint point listed above was something we
could consider as the rest of the points had been previously brought to our service in 2017
under the separate reference, and which the earlier investigator had concluded had been
brought to our service too late.
Our investigator considered the outstanding point and said Bank of Scotland had previously
addressed Mr Ss concerns about the process for releasing the land. But Mr Ss concerns 
that the bank had told him in a call that the mortgage flexible features would need to be
removed in order to release the land werent dealt with.The investigator confirmed theyd listened to the relevant call in question and concluded that
the Bank of Scotland call handler had given Mr S unclear information about the flexible
options on the mortgage by suggesting they needed to be removed in order to release the
land in question. That said, the investigator explained whilst the information wasnt correct,
this didnt change the position of the account  that is, that the flexible features had already
been removed some years earlier (as described above). Bank of Scotland had said it was for
them to set out the conditions for releasing the land in question, but agreed the information
hadnt been clear in the call and to recognise this Bank of Scotland agreed to pay Mr and
Mr S £200 which the investigator had proposed to resolve this complaint point.
Mr S replied to the investigator to disagree with their findings. Ive summarised Mr Ss points
below. He said:
Bank of Scotland and the Financial Ombudsman Service are both blaming each 
other for not being able to investigate the complaint. Both parties should be helping 
him to resolve the position he is in, particularly the Financial Ombudsman Service 
who are supposed to protect his interests as he has no recourse to clear the 
breaches of contract by the Bank of Scotland.
He didnt accept the £200 offered as this didnt acknowledge several years of being 
stuck in their house and being unable to move or cover solicitors costs on two 
attempts to release the land in question, or recognise the damage to their reputation 
in the community.
The legal department felt the surrender of the key features of the mortgage to facilitate 
the release of the land mustve seen some value in removing these features, and had 
these features been lawfully removed previously that the Bank of Scotland would have 
records of this to show the appropriate notice was given. And, having obtained records 
for the account (under GDPR) there is no evidence of the 2008 letter saying the 
flexible features were removed.
If the Bank of Scotland had lawfully removed the facilities, then there is no value in 
him surrendering something thats already been removed. And therefore Bank of 
Scotland are guilty of deception and obstruction to his and Mrs Ss liberty.
As the investigator couldnt resolve things for Mr and Mrs S, the complaint has been passed
to me to review and decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After carefully reviewing everything it seems to me there are recurrent themes to Mr and Mrs
Ss concerns which Ive broadly identified as:
That a payment holiday was not arranged in 2012 and so arrears were recorded 
against Mr and Mrs Ss credit files which impacted their ability to obtain credit. And
they were not informed that their credit files would be affected.
The flexible features of the mortgage were removed without any notice and Bank of 
Scotland can provide no record of their communications to Mr and Mrs S about this.
Matters relating to the release of part of Bank of Scotlands security in order to allow 
Mr and Mrs S to sell the property. Of these themes it appears to me that the first two identified are Mr and Mrs Ss main
concerns as it is suggested throughout that their current circumstances have been brought
about by the damage to their credit file and the removal of the flexible mortgage features.
I recognise this has been a matter ongoing for a number of years and it is clear to me that Mr
and Mrs S have gone through and still are going through challenging times, which I am sorry
to hear.
But as our investigator in 2017 explained, there are rules our service follows (known as the
DISP rules) which set out when our service can become involved in a complaint.
It might help Mr and Mrs S to understand that our rules explain if a complaint has been
brought to our service too late a business can say if they are prepared to consent to our
service looking at the complaint. In Mr and Mrs Ss case Bank of Scotland did not give us
such consent, so our investigator therefore had to apply our rules including deciding whether
any exceptional circumstances were able to explain why Mr and Mrs S had brought the
complaint late. In 2017 the investigator said Mr and Mrs Ss complaint was not brought to our
service in time and that no exceptional circumstances applied, so it wasnt possible for us to
consider their concerns.
It may also help Mr S to know that the Financial Ombudsman Service was not set up to act
as a consumer champion, but rather as an impartial body to informally and fairly resolve
financial disputes between two parties.
Im in agreement with our investigator that it is possible for us to consider the concerns Mr S
raised about a phone call between him and Bank of Scotland in 2018. Having listened to the
telephone call in question I agree that the information the Bank of Scotland staff member
provided Mr S with was unclear. I think the £200 offered to recognise that this particular
phone call could have gone better is fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S should note that the £200 offered is in no way meant to reflect the much wider
concerns and loss they have described throughout all their submissions. This offer is only to
acknowledge the poor handling of that particular call with Bank of Scotland. And while this
information was unclear it is not enough to say this mis-information can be held responsible 
for all the losses Mr and Mrs S are attempting to claim.
my provisional decision
For the reasons above, the only part of this complaint I can look at is what happened on the
phone call in 2018. And I think £200 is fair in the circumstances to recognise the information
given at that time wasnt clear.
Bank of Scotland Plc should now pay Mr and Mrs S £200.
Replies to my provisional decision 
Bank of Scotland replied to my provisional decision to say they had no further comments to 
make. 
Mr and Mrs S were sent a copy of my provisional decision and our service followed this up 
with Mr and Mrs S to see if they had any further comments to make. However, Mr and Mrs 
S did not reply and did not provide this service with any further submissions to consider. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided me with any further submissions to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I reached in my provisional decision. That is, I have considered the 
concerns about the phone call which took place in 2018 between Mr S and Bank of 
Scotland and I think the information given to Mr S during that call was unclear. This is 
because I think it left Mr S with the impression he still had access to the flexible features of 
his mortgage when these features had already been removed some years previously. As 
Ive already said, I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold this call responsible for the 
overall losses Mr and Mrs S are looking to claim, but in the circumstances I think £200 is 
fair to recognise the call was unhelpful to Mr and Mrs S at an already difficult time.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr and Mrs S £200. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I uphold the part of Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint that I can consider and Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr and Mrs S £200. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman