DRN-4308426
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Blue Motor Finance Ltd, who Ill call BMFL.
What happened
I issued provisional decisions on this complaint earlier in the year. An extract from my most 
recent provisional decision is set out below.
I know it will disappoint BMFL, but I think the evidence suggests this car wasnt supplied in a
satisfactory condition and Im expecting to ask them to put things right for Mr K.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMFL, who are also the supplier
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr K. The car here was about
ten years old and had already completed about 108,600 miles, so think a reasonable person
would expect it to have quite a lot of wear and tear.
Whilst I accept that a car of this age and mileage, would be likely to be experiencing quite a
bit of wear and tear I think a reasonable person would expect to be able to drive it from the
forecourt without experiencing engine problems. The relevant legislation says that when we
think about whether a car has been of satisfactory quality we should also consider whether it
has been durable.
Mr K says he experienced problems with the injectors on the day he took receipt of it. A text
message he sent to the dealership explained that he was wondering why it was running
so strangely and Mr K went on to explain hed performed a diagnostic scan of the system
which showed an injector fault. In that same text he explained that he had poured injector
cleaner in and maybe it will help.
The dealership have explained that the failure of the injectors was due to Mr K using that
cleaner, but I dont think that can be the case as Mr Ks text message explained that hed
used the cleaner to try to remedy the strange running of the engine. It therefore seems likely
that the engine wasnt running properly before he used the cleaner, and Im not therefore
persuaded that the initial injector failures have been caused by that cleaner.
The relevant legislation gave Mr K the short term right to reject the car at that point, but he
chose to have it repaired. Im not persuaded that repair has been successful because:
The third party garage report of 19 July 2022 says injector three isnt working.
The initial repair appears to have been carried out by 26 May and I can see that Mr K
was complaining about further, similar issues, by at least 20 June 2022.
Mr K had only completed 724 miles in the car by the time the third party garage
confirmed the subsequent injector fault, and it therefore seems to me its more likely
than not that was a failed repair rather than a new unconnected fault.
The relevant legislation says that if a repair is unsuccessful the consumer should be allowed
to reject the car, so I think thats what BMFL should now do.
And, even if Im wrong about the failed repair being a reason to reject the car, I think
rejection should also be authorised because this car wasnt durable. I dont think a
reasonable person would expect such a significant failure within a few hundred miles of
driving, even on a car of this age and mileage. Whilst I accept that injectors may be nearing
the end of their serviceable life at over 100,000 miles, given that the dealership say they
serviced the car before they supplied it to Mr K I think he could be entitled to expect it to
have run relatively fault free for much longer than it did.
Putting things right
BMFL should collect the car at no cost to Mr K and they should end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr K has paid and, as hes been deprived of that money,
they will need to add interest to that refund.
Mr K has had to commission a report on the cars condition in order to support his claim. I
havent currently seen evidence that Mr K had to pay anything for the report but, if he did, I
think the cost will have been incurred as a consequence of the car being of unsatisfactory
quality. So, BMFL should refund the cost of that report if Mr K can provide a receipt. They
should add interest to that refund too.
Mr K has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to the
dealership and has had to arrange a diagnostic. Hes also had to escalate his complaint to
this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances BMFL
should pay him £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Mr K hasnt been able to use the car much. Hes explained its now sitting on his drive and
cant be driven. The current fault was diagnosed in July 2022 and Mr K had only driven 724
miles at that point. Mr Ks use of the car had been impaired before then by the issues hed
been having with it, and I cant see he was kept mobile with a courtesy car whilst his car was
being repaired. Taking everything into account I think BMFL should refund all finance
instalments due with the exception of the first one which they can retain in respect of the use
Mr K has had from the car. Theyll need to add interest to that refund too.
Mr K has explained that hes been insuring the car whilst its been off the road and Im
therefore expecting to ask BMFL to provide a partial refund of that insurance. Mr K should
pay for insurance until the date the current fault was diagnosed by the third party garage (19
July 2022), any insurance payments hes made since then, and can evidence to BMFL,should be refunded with interest.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Blue
Motor Finance Ltd to:
Allow Mr K to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr K.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund all but the first finance instalment, waive any that were due after that and
havent been paid, add 8% simple interest* per year to any refund from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of Mr Ks diagnostic report on provision of a receipt and add 8%
simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr K £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Refund any insurance payments Mr K can evidence since the third party garage
report of 19 July 2022.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ks credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Further comments and/or evidence
Mr K explained that hed started to use the car again after an MOT was completed on 13
April 2023. He said the car was covered in mould at that point because it had been stood for
so long and he explained that some of that mould was still visible despite him cleaning it and
bringing the car back to a good condition. He said the car is operational now and the MAF
sensor has been replaced but the car is still under powered and uses more diesel. He
provided a photograph of the odometer which showed the mileage in July 2023 to be
111,444. He also provided a copy of a diagnostic test showing the car had completed
111,811 miles by 17 July 2023. Mr K wanted to be reimbursed for the most recent bill hed
paid, in which the battery and MAF sensor was replaced, and the car was serviced. Mr K
provided a copy of the receipt for his diagnostic report and also provided a statement
showing his insurance contributions.
BMFL also responded. They said:
Mr K is a mechanic.
He test drove the vehicle  presumably it was fine for the test drive.
The vehicle was supplied with mileage 102,200. It has recently passed an MOT with
mileage 109,244  that is 7k miles, not 700 as alleged by Mr K.
The MOT did not contain any reference to injector faults which occurred after Mr K
added an additive to the engine.
We have no evidence of any further injector repairs to enable 7k miles to be driven
We contend that by adding significant mileage Mr K has affirmed the agreement by
continued use and cannot now reject.
I asked BMFL to provide evidence that the car had completed 102,200 miles at inception of
the deal as that wasnt what Id been led to believe. They provided a copy of the DealersOffer and Warranty form (one document) that was signed by the dealership on inception of
the deal. I asked Mr K about that too, but he didnt agree with BMFL; he said the mileage
was 108,000 and he provided a copy of the warranty agreement that demonstrated that was
the case. He also referred me to the screen shot hed initially provided of the diagnostic hed
performed three days after the car was supplied to him. That showed the mileage as
174,777km (108,601 miles) and also listed the correct VIN.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with any new evidence that would lead me to change my opinion that
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied or that Mr K shouldnt be allowed to
reject it.
With regard to the cars mileage at inception, BMFL have provided one form to show the
mileage was 102,000. It doesnt appear to be a form that was ever shared with Mr K, and he
would therefore never have had the opportunity to dispute it. The car had already completed
a little over 102,000 miles when it was MOTd in November 2021, six months before Mr K
took receipt of it. I think its more likely than not that it would have covered further miles in
that time. The diagnostic completed a few days after the car was supplied, shows the
mileage to be a little over 108,000, as would be expected if 108,000 was the delivery
mileage. The correct VIN is attached to that diagnostic, and Im persuaded its likely to be an
accurate record of the actual mileage on the car at that time. That evidence, and the mileage
on the warranty, leads me to believe its most likely the mileage on the car at inception was
indeed 108,000.
Mr K has now explained hes been using the car for the last few months. I wasnt previously
aware of that, but I understand the need as Mr K has explained he works 30 miles from
home and cant afford to replace the vehicle. His usage, however, means that Ive needed to
revisit the refund of instalments I was thinking of ordering.
The car had completed 111,811 miles on 18 July 2023 so, Im persuaded Mr K has
completed 3,811 miles and not the 724 miles I had relied on in my first provisional decision.
But that further usage has been impaired because I think Mr K would have been concerned
about the cars condition. In the circumstances I think BMFL should refund all finance
instalments due with the exception of two that they can retain in respect of the use Mr K has
had from the car. Theyll need to add interest to that refund.
Im not expecting to ask BMFL to refund the cost of the recent work on the car. I think the
work completed was likely to be the result of normal wear and tear and expected routine
maintenance on a car of this age and mileage.
Ive reconsidered the insurance refund as Mr K has now explained hes been using the car
since April 2023. BMFL should, therefore, refund any insurance payments Mr K can
evidence from the date of the third party garage report (19 July 2022) to the date of the MOT
(13 April 2023).
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Blue
Motor Finance Ltd to:
Allow Mr K to reject the car and end the finance agreement.Collect the car at no cost to Mr K.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund all finance instalments except two that they can retain in respect of fair use.
Add 8% simple interest* per year to any refund from the date of payment to the date
of settlement.
Refund the cost of Mr Ks diagnostic report on provision of a receipt and add 8%
simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr K £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Refund any insurance payments Mr K can evidence for the period of non-use 19 July
2021 to 12 April 2023. Add 8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to
the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ks credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K accepted my latest provisional decision, and MBFL didnt have any further comments. 
Ive therefore, found no reason to change my latest provisional decision, and that becomes 
my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
Allow Mr K to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr K.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund all finance instalments except two that they can retain in respect of fair use.
Add 8% simple interest* per year to any refund from the date of payment to the date
of settlement.
Refund the cost of Mr Ks diagnostic report on provision of a receipt and add 8%
simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr K £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Refund any insurance payments Mr K can evidence for the period of non-use 19 July
2021 to 12 April 2023. Add 8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to
the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ks credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman