DRN-4164278
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE has handled a claim under his 
motor insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for 
which it takes responsibility. 
What happened
In 2020, Mr K was involved in a road traffic accident when he collided with a third partys 
vehicle. He reported the accident to his car insurers  Great Lakes.
Initially, Mr K didnt want to make a claim as he didnt want to pay his policy excess. He says 
he was reassured by Great Lakes that the third party was at fault for the accident and that 
the case would be taken to court to recover his outlay if he made a claim. 
Mr K says that, based on this advice, he agreed to make a claim. He paid his excess and 
Great Lakes arranged for his car to be repaired. Subsequently he was told the case wouldnt 
proceed to court as the solicitors thought he was at fault for the accident. Mr K was left with 
a fault claim on his policy, which has increased his premiums and caused his no claims 
bonus to be lost, and he hasnt been able to recover his excess of £450.  
Mr K raised a complaint. He says at no time was he told there was a chance the case 
wouldnt go to court. Hes asking that Great Lakes pay £1000 in compensation for his losses 
and the distress he experienced as a result. 
Great Lakes didnt uphold the complaint. It said:
The third partys insurers (TPI) disputed liability early in the claims process, and Mr K 
was informed. Mr K raised concerns about making a claim as he didnt want to pay 
his excess and he was told the excess would be payable regardless of fault if a claim 
was made. Mr K chose not to proceed with the claim and the file was closed. 
Mr K returned in 2021 advising that he wished to pursue the claim, so his file was 
reopened. Great Lakes arranged the repairs to Mr Ks car and then sought to recover 
its losses from the TPI, including Mr Ks excess. The TPI continued to dispute liability 
and confirmed that it would defend any claim pursued against them.
Great Lakes advised Mr K that it thought the case would settle on a split liability 
basis, but Mr K disagreed and said he wanted the case to go to court. So Great 
Lakes instructed solicitors. 
After reviewing the evidence available, including Mr Ks dash-cam footage, the 
solicitors advised there were low prospects of successfully proving the third party 
was liable for the accident. Great Lakes asked the solicitors to reconsider on two 
occasions given how strongly Mr K considered the third party to be at fault, but the 
solicitors explained why they couldnt agree. Based on this advice, Great Lakes 
opted not to pursue the TPI for its and Mr Ks losses.
Great Lakes has advised Mr K of his option to instruct his own solicitors to pursue the TPI. 
Alternatively, its said that it can unwind the claim on the policy  which means that if Mr K 
pays back the £548.81 Great Lakes has paid to repair his vehicle, Great Lakes will remove 
the claim from Mr Ks policy, reimburse his excess, and restore his no claims bonus.
Mr K remained dissatisfied. He says the repairs were far more expensive having gone 
through his insurers than if hed had them done privately. He brought his complaint to our 
Service. But our Investigator didnt think Great Lakes had done anything incorrect or unfair. 
As Mr K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most car insurance policies, Mr Ks cover is subject to an excess, defined in the policy 
terms as the amount you will have to pay if you make a claim regardless of who was to 
blame. Having listened to the calls between Mr K and Great Lakes, Im satisfied Mr K was 
informed of this.
Mr K wanted Great Lakes to establish liability with the third party before he made a claim. 
This was because he didnt want to pay his excess if it later became apparent that he 
couldnt recover it from the other side. Having listened to the calls, Im satisfied Great Lakes 
correctly advised that it couldnt make a claim to the TPI for its and Mr Ks outlay until it had 
one. Ultimately, Great Lakes cant reasonably be expected to start the claims process by 
contacting the TPI if Mr K hadnt decided he actually wanted to make a claim. 
It appears Mr K was referred to an accident management company on the basis that it was 
thought the third party was at fault and it would avoid Mr K having to pay any costs up front. 
But as the TPI disputed liability, he was referred back to Great Lakes to make a claim under 
his policy. In 2021, when Mr K agreed to make a claim on his policy and pay his excess, Im 
satisfied he was aware that liability was disputed. 
Once Mr K asked to make a claim, Great Lakes arranged for the car to be repaired. On a call 
with Great Lakes, Mr K specifically requested that his car be repaired by a BMW garage as 
the car was only a few months old. Great Lakes agreed to this request and instructed the 
garage of Mr Ks choice. He was given a courtesy car under his policy whilst his was being 
repaired. 
Great Lakes submitted its losses to the TPI, and liability continued to be disputed. On a call, 
Mr K is advised that Great Lakes considers the claim will settle as 50/50 split liability at best. 
Mr K disagrees and asks to go to court, which Great Lakes agrees to saying the dash-cam 
footage is in Mr Ks favour. But once solicitors assess the evidence, its determined that 
prospects of winning are low, and the case doesnt proceed to court. Im satisfied this was a 
reasonable decision to make based on the legal advice available.
I appreciate Mr K wasnt told that his case may not proceed to court, rather Great Lakes was 
very optimistic of the evidence in Mr Ks favour. But even if he was told, I dont agree that it 
wouldve alter the situation Mr K is now in. I say this because by the time Mr K was told of 
the possibility of going to court, hed already made a claim and incurred his excess. And hed 
done that knowing liability was disputed. Mr K says hes left with a fault claim against him which has affected his insurance. But as 
Ive explained, even if Great Lakes had advised him that it would be up to the solicitors to 
decide whether the case is litigated or not, hed still be in this position. 
In any event, even if I was to find that Great Lakes had misled Mr K into making a claim  
which, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  the way our Service expects a business to put 
things right is to put the customer back in the position they wouldve been in had nothing 
gone wrong. In this case, that would mean Great Lakes putting Mr K back in a position 
where he hasnt made a claim on his policy. And Im satisfied its already offered to do that 
by giving Mr K the option to unwind his claim. 
To do so, Mr K will need to reimburse Great Lakes for the cost of the repairs to his car. He 
says these costs are far higher than if hed had it repaired himself. I havent seen any 
evidence of this and usually insurers can get cars repaired at a cheaper cost due to the 
contracts it has with its approved repairers. In any event, Great Lakes has used the garage 
Mr K asked it to so Ive not persuaded Mr K wouldve repaired his car any differently to what 
Great Lakes has done. 
If Mr K wishes to accept the offer to unwind his claim, he should contact Great Lakes 
directly. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I dont uphold this complaint on the basis that Mr K 
made a claim on his policy being fully informed that he would be liable for his excess and 
that liability was disputed. Whilst Great Lakes couldve been clearer that his claim may not 
proceed to court, this situation arose after the claim had already been made and the 
conversations at that stage had no bearing on the position Mr K is now in. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman