DRN-2868299
The complaint
Miss C is complaining about Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB). She says they mis-
sold her life assurance and critical illness cover.
What happened
In 2018, Miss C spoke with an advisor from MAB and arranged life assurance and critical 
illness cover, as well as an income protection policy. MAB set up a policy which provided a 
sum assured of around £120,000 for both life assurance and critical illness. The policy was 
set up on a decreasing term basis, beginning in July 2018.
Miss C thought that the policy had separate pots for the two types of cover. But when she 
made a successful claim on the critical illness policy in March 2020, she found out that this 
meant she had no life assurance remaining. And because of her illness, it would be difficult 
and much more expensive to get a new life assurance policy.
Miss C complained to MAB. When they didnt reply to her she brought her complaint to our 
service. She said that shed been led to believe the life assurance and critical illness cover 
were completely separate. Miss C acknowledged that theres a small disclaimer on one of 
the letters she received which noted that any claim under the critical illness policy would be 
deducted from the sum assured on the life policy. But she said she didnt think this was 
enough given the conversations shed had with the MAB advisor. Miss C said she didnt 
think the advisor had properly understood the policy and had therefore mis-advised her. 
Shed like her life assurance to be reinstated for the premium quoted to her in 2018.
MAB eventually replied to Miss C. They didnt uphold her complaint about the mis-sale but 
they offered her £300 to apologise for the length of time theyd taken to deal with her 
complaint. MAB said the policy had been suitable for Miss C at the time of the sale and they 
felt the documentation made it clear that the policy wouldnt pay the sum assured twice.
As Miss C remained unhappy, our investigator looked into the complaint. He didnt uphold it 
either. He said it was clear the advisor had reviewed Miss Cs needs and circumstances. 
And he said the policy appeared to have been suitable for Miss C even though Miss Cs now 
saying thats not what she wanted. Our investigator thought the documentation Miss C had 
received made it clear that the total sum assured covered both policies. And he noted that 
Miss C had declined the protected cover option which would have protected the life 
assurance cover in the event of a critical illness claim. Our investigator also said he thought 
the compensation offered by MAB for the length of time it had taken them to look into 
Miss Cs complaint was fair.
Miss C didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
matter  so its came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 13 May 2020, saying I was 
intending to uphold Miss Cs complaint. In that provisional decision, I said:
When I first reviewed Miss Cs case file it wasnt clear to me why she wanted life 
assurance at all. The documents from the time of sale show that she had no partner or 
dependents  so it wasnt clear who she wanted to benefit in the event of her death. The 
notes from the sale are very sparse and dont explain why Miss C was sold the 
combination of policies that she ended up with.
I asked Miss C why shed wanted life assurance. I also asked her to provide more 
information about her mortgage  as the documents from the time of sale say that the 
balance on her mortgage was £60,000.
Miss C explained that she moved jobs in mid-2018. At her previous role shed had critical 
illness cover of £125,000 and life assurance of four times her salary, but her new role 
didnt offer these benefits. So she wanted to replace them. Miss C continued, saying that 
although she didnt have any dependents at the time, she did have a partner who was 
planning to move in. And she intended to move to a bigger property and have children 
later in life. She knew from her professional experience that life assurance would be more 
expensive to arrange when she was older, and particularly so if she had any health 
issues. So she thought it would be prudent to put it in place right away.
In respect of her mortgage, Miss C confirmed that her balance at the time she took out 
the policies was around £60,000. She then took additional lending in February 2019, 
increasing her balance to around £112,000. 
Ive thought about everything Miss C said. Its clear she was planning for the future rather 
than matching her policies to her exact circumstances at the time. And its clear she was 
aware of the benefits of financial protection, and of arranging long term financial 
protection while she was young and healthy. Im inclined to say the MAB advisor should 
have been aware of Miss Cs aims, and that he should have arranged for Miss C to have 
the cover that she wanted  i.e. two separate pots for life assurance and critical illness 
cover. This could have been provided simply by adding the protected cover option.
The protection recommendation letter from the sale suggest that the advisor discussed 
protected cover with Miss C. However, this letter is incomplete. It appears to be largely a 
template with many aspects not filled in. For example it says: You wanted your mortgage 
to be repaid if you died during the mortgage term even though you have no dependents 
because. It gives no reason and moves on to the next section. This pattern is repeated 
throughout the letter. In relation to protected cover, it says: Adding this benefit means 
your life cover will not reduce following a successful claim under Serious Illness cover. 
You declined my recommendation because. 
Given the numerous gaps in the letter, I dont find it persuasive evidence that the 
protected cover option was discussed with Miss C. And Miss C says she never received 
this letter. There are several gaps and inconsistencies in the documentation on the file  
so Im inclined to believe that she didnt receive it and was therefore unaware of the 
option to protect her cover.
As MAB have said, some of the documents from the insurer did show that Miss Cs life 
assurance would be reduced by the amount of any critical illness claim. This is explained 
in the key facts booklet and in a letter sent to Miss C. However, the information wasnt 
prominent or highlighted in either document. So, given Miss C had been advised to take 
this cover, I think it was reasonable for her to assume it matched her needs.
In summary, Im inclined to conclude that the MAB advisor should have discussed the 
protected cover option with Miss C but didnt. Miss C says she would have taken this 
option if it had been presented to her, so MABs error has left Miss C with a significant 
shortfall in life cover.
Putting things rightIm minded to say that MAB should treat Miss C as if she had taken the protected cover 
option. This means arranging for her to have life cover with the same terms as she would 
have had if the cover had continued  i.e. same sum assured, remaining term and other 
terms and conditions. MAB will also need to pay to Miss C the difference between the 
premiums due for the new cover and what Miss C would have paid for the original cover. 
MAB are entitled to deduct the relevant backdated premiums for the period from the date 
the policy lapsed to the date that a direct debit is reinstated.   
MAB have told me that the cost of Miss Cs premiums in total would have been £68.22 
per month including the protected cover element. This compares to the £63.56 she was 
quoted and paid for her cover. So the additional element would have cost £4.66 per 
month. Although Miss C says she would have reduced her income protection to cover this 
amount, Miss C has had the benefit of that income protection  and its now been 
cancelled. So I think MAB are also entitled to deduct from their payment the additional 
£4.66 per month from the start of Miss Cs policy to the point where the protected cover is 
no longer needed.
Other issues
In his written view, our investigator also commented on the income protection policy, and 
on the amount MAB offered Miss C as compensation for the time it took them to look into 
her complaint. However, in Miss Cs response she said she hadnt intended us to look 
into the income protection aspect. So I havent covered that in this decision.
In relation to complaint handling, this isnt within our jurisdiction. The rules that govern 
how we operate say that we can only look into certain activities  and how a business 
handles complaints isnt one of them. So I cant comment on the amount of compensation 
MAB offered Miss C for this.
MAB commented that they didnt agree the advice was unsuitable but said they didnt have 
any further evidence  so they accepted my provisional decision. Miss C commented on a 
couple of small inaccuracies in my provisional decision, but accepted the overall outcome. 
She said:
Her mortgage increased by around £64,000 at the end of January 2019, taking her 
total balance to around £124,000 at the time. 
The income protection benefit hasnt been cancelled  and she wishes to keep it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the inaccuracies Miss C mentioned  and they dont have any bearing on 
my decision and proposed outcome. 
So, as neither party has provided any information or evidence that changes my mind, my 
final decision is unchanged from my provisional decision.  
My final decision
As Ive explained above, my final decision is that Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited should 
arrange for Miss C to have life cover as if she had paid for the protected cover option from 
the start  and should pay her the difference in cost between the two.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman