DRN-2267599
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc delayed an urgent payment and provided poor 
customer service. Mrs S is represented by her husband, Mr S, who has a separate account.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr and Mrs Ss sons car developed a fault. The nature of his employment 
meant he needed a new car urgently. So, Mr and Mrs S travelled some distance from their 
home the following day to view a car belonging to a private seller. They decided to purchase 
the car, but when they attempted to make payment from Mrs Ss sole account it was flagged 
by Santanders automated fraud detection system and blocked.
They contacted Santander by phone and had to wait around forty minutes to be put through 
to the security team. Theyve said that, meanwhile, suspecting they werent able to pay for 
the car, the seller went back inside and closed the door, which they found embarrassing. 
Once Mrs S was put through to the security team they were able to confirm that the payment 
was genuine and released it. 
Mr and Mrs S were warned the payment might take 24 hours, which caused them concern 
as it would have meant repeating the journey the next day. In reality though, the payment 
was processed instantly, and this allowed the purchase of the car to be completed that day.
It transpired that Santander had tried to make contact with Mrs S on her landline and mobile 
phone number to make sure the payment was genuine. But because she was away from 
home and on hold to Santander, neither call was received. Mr and Mrs S concluded this was 
an inherent flaw in the way Santander carries out its fraud prevention checks. 
They highlighted that, in making the payment, Mrs S ticked a box confirming the payment 
was genuine. They therefore questioned why it was necessary for Santander to speak to her 
to confirm the same thing again. They highlighted that the payment wasnt out of character 
taking into account Mrs Ss usual spending (although they accepted that the private seller 
was a new payee). And they mentioned that this wasnt the first instance of this happening.
Mr and Mrs S thought that Santanders fraud detection system was over-sensitive, and that, 
particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic (which meant Santanders capacity was stretched) 
it should focus on higher value payments to reduce inconvenience to account holders. They 
felt Santanders response to their complaint was reductive, with an over reliance on its 
compliance with its own policies and procedures. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt it was reasonable for 
Santander to take the steps it did to ensure the payment was genuine. He explained we 
dont have a regulatory remit, so he wasnt able to instruct Santander what policies or 
procedures to adopt. He could only consider whether it had applied its policies and 
procedures fairly. Mr and Mrs S wanted an ombudsman to review things afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see the payment was made from Mrs Ss sole account which means shes the only 
eligible complainant here. I cant take any distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr S into 
consideration, unless I think it in turn caused Mrs S distress or inconvenience.
Furthermore, Mr and Mrs S have suggested Santander should make a number of changes to 
the way it deals with payments it suspects might be fraudulent. As our investigator has said, 
were not a regulator. As such, I dont have the power to direct Santander to change its 
policies or procedures, or to adopt new ones. 
I can, however, decide whether it applied its policies and procedures fairly in this specific set 
of circumstances. If I think it hasnt, I can make an award in relation to any losses, financial 
or otherwise, that Mrs S was caused by that.
Mrs Ss relationship with Santander is governed, first and foremost, by the terms and 
conditions of her particular account. In relation to faster payments, these set out that:
There may be a delay in processing the payment while fraud prevention checks take 
place. We may need to contact you if we suspect that a payment is fraudulent. If we 
contact you, this may be by phone and may include an automated message.
So, as a starting point, Santander was acting within the terms and conditions of the account 
by delaying the processing of the payment while it took steps to confirm that it was genuine. 
Furthermore, it followed the process laid out in the terms and conditions by attempting to 
contact Mrs S on the phone numbers registered to her account. 
Id expect Santander to have systems in place which protect its account holders from fraud. 
Naturally, this will lead to occasions when legitimate transactions like this one are flagged 
and blocked. I accept that, inevitably, the account holder is inconvenienced in that scenario. 
But I dont think that means Santander did something wrong if it had cause to be concerned. 
We regularly see the reverse of this complaint where account holders complain that banks 
didnt delay or investigate payments, and this resulted in fraud. 
Santander hasnt been able to tell us what it was about this transaction that was picked up 
by its fraud detection system. And I accept that it would be counter-productive for Santander 
to explain the characteristics its fraud detection systems are designed to spot.  
I acknowledge Mrs Ss point that the size of the payment was consistent with her spending. 
But she concedes she had no existing financial relationship with the seller. Its also likely the 
size of the payment is one of a myriad of factors Santanders fraud detection systems take 
into account. Thats not least because fraudsters often avoid making large payments in the 
hope of going under the radar. I havent concluded Santander was unreasonably cautious. 
And I dont think it should have applied its fraud prevention policies any less rigorously due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic (which fraudsters have taken advantage of to create new scams). 
Mrs S has also highlighted that she had to tick a box when making the payment to confirm  
she understood the risk it could be fraudulent. This is increasingly common and forms part of 
a voluntary code that Santander has signed up to. Its intended to give account holders 
pause before completing payments to lessen the chances of scammers being successful. 
But some account holders will proceed (or will be coerced into proceeding), so banks still 
have an obligation to delay and investigate payments theyre concerned about.
I appreciate Mrs S was left waiting on hold for a while. And I can see that this would have been awkward given she was in the middle of trying to buy a car. It also meant Santander 
werent able to contact her to check the payment was genuine. But Im mindful that, at the 
relevant time, Santanders phone lines were being manned remotely. And its call volumes 
would have increased due to the financial implications of a nationwide lockdown. In that 
context, I dont think the delays Mrs S experienced were unreasonable or avoidable. 
In addition to the above, as Mr and Mrs S have noted in their submissions, the operative who 
first answered their call was sympathetic to their situation and carried out a warm handover 
to the security team. Taking everything into account, I havent decided to award 
compensation in respect of Santanders handling of the call. 
Its unfortunate Santander warned Mrs S that it could take 24 hours to release the payment. 
But I think any distress that arose from this would have been short lived, given that the 
payment was in fact released instantly. I cant compensate for what might have been. 
Furthermore, I havent addressed Mrs Ss concerns regarding Santanders complaint 
handling because I havent upheld the subject matter that complaint handling related to. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman