DRN-3497543
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is in relation to a mortgage and linked current account overdraft that she 
held with Barclays Bank UK PLC. She feels she wasnt helped or supported during a period 
of financial difficulties. 
What happened
In 2007 Mrs M took a repayment mortgage with Barclays. A condition of the mortgage was 
that she take out a linked mortgage current account (MCA). The advice to apply for the 
mortgage was given by a firm of independent mortgage brokers, so Barclays isnt 
responsible for whether the arrangement was suitable for Mrs M.
The MCA had a reserve or overdraft facility linked to it. The limit on the reserve facility 
increased over time to reflect the reduction of the mortgage balance. If Mrs M chose to use 
the reserve, the amount owed was secured on her property. The interest rate charged on the 
MCA reserve was Barclays standard variable rate.
From the spring of 2009 the mortgage was peppered with late payments or payments of less 
than the contractual amount, but the shortfalls werent outstanding for long. This continued 
through to the end of 2016, when the mortgage remained in arrears, albeit at a low level. At 
their highest in the autumn of 2018, the arrears were less than three months worth of 
contractual payment. 
Mrs M started using the reserve facility in April 2008. This consisted of multiple payments 
being made by Mrs M in that month, resulting in the account being overdrawn by around 
£8,000 at the end of that month. By the end of that year the overdraft balance had risen to 
over £44,000.  By the end of 2009 it was c£57000 and that increased steadily due to the 
addition of interest each year until 2015, when the balance was just under £100,000 against 
a reserve limit of £88,402. Thereafter, Mrs M regularly made payments toward the overdraft 
and by early 2020 it had reduced to just over £86,000.  
Barclays started to discuss the MCA balance with Mrs M in 2012. She confirmed that she 
was extending the mortgaged property and would put forward proposals for reducing the 
MCA balance at the beginning of 2013. No such plans were presented to Barclays and it 
was not until the end of 2013 when any further significant discussions were held. Barclays 
highlighted that the interest on the MCA balance wasnt being covered and so it was 
increasing the debt each month. This meant that the balance was above the reserve limit.  
Mrs M said she would make a payment of £14,000 that day and pay £500 a month 
thereafter. Barclays pointed out that this would mean that only £100 would be being paid to 
reduce the MCA balance, which wasnt what it would usually expect a consumer to do. It 
suggested that Mrs M complete an income and expenditure exercise so it could be 
established what she could afford to pay each month. Mrs M declined to do so, as she was 
too busy at that time. Mrs M didnt pay the £1,400 proposed, but she made some payments 
in the early part of 2014. 
A further discussion was held about the MCA reserve in September 2014. Mrs M said that 
she couldnt afford the interest that was being charged. She also mentioned that she owned 
two other properties and might consider re-mortgaging them in order to clear the amount 
above the reserve limit. This wasnt done, although Mrs M made a further payment of £1,000 
to the account in November 2014. 
Further discussions about the MCA balance were held at the end of 2014 and into 2015. 
Mrs M was told that she needed to get the MCA within its limits. Given her disposable 
income at the time, it was estimated that she could do so within ten months. 
In September 2015 Mrs M again discussed the MCA balance and said that she wanted to 
put a plan in place to reduce it down to the reserve limit. She said that she couldnt do that if 
Barclays continued to apply interest to the debt each month. Barclays said it couldnt not 
apply interest. Mrs M agreed to start making payments while her financial situation was 
assessed. She said that she would call back to complete an income and expenditure 
exercise so that a formal plan could be agreed to get the MCA balance under control. Mrs M 
didnt call back. 
The next time Mrs M called, as the mortgage was also in arrears at this point, she was 
transferred to the collections department to discuss an arrangement. An income and 
expenditure exercise was eventually done in February 2016. This showed that Mrs M had 
disposable income of nearly £1,300 each month. A payment arrangement was agreed for 
the MCA, which involved her paying the amount of the debit interest on the MCA plus most 
of her disposable income each month. 
The payment arrangement was broken a few months later. Mrs Ms circumstances were 
reassessed and a new payment arrangement for a lower amount, over 14 months, was 
agreed to clear the amount of the MCA overdraft above the limit. 
In December 2016 Mrs M asked Barclays if it would consolidate the MCA balance into the 
mortgage as she was finding paying the mortgage and MCA difficult. It was agreed that 
Mrs M would complete ms1 and call back with details so that can agree plan. Barclays has 
confirmed that ms1is an income and expenditure form, so this note means that Mrs M was 
to gather information about her financial situation and call Barclays back to discuss what 
could be done. The contact notes from Barclays systems doesnt show Mrs M calling 
Barclays again until July 2018. That said, she maintained the payments under the payment 
arrangement agreed in July 2016 and the MCA balance reduced to less than the reserve 
limit. However, it increased again in 2018 and was again in excess of the reserve limit.
Following Barclays notifying Mrs M that it was going to send a field agent to her home to 
discuss the arrears on the mortgage account, she called Barclays in July 2018. Mrs M 
questioned that the mortgage was in arrears as shed been making lump sum payments. It 
was explained that the monthly mortgage payment was still due, so the payments had been 
going to that and the surplus had been reducing the arrears, but hadnt been enough to clear 
them. Mrs M again said that the interest charged on the MCA balance was causing her 
problems. She said that she would seek independent advice and call back to do an income 
and expenditure exercise.
Two months later Mrs M hadnt called Barclays back, so it called her. Mrs M explained that 
shed not been in touch as there had been a flood in her business premises and shed 
needed to fund repairs. An income and expenditure exercise was completed and a payment 
arrangement was agreed for the mortgage and MCA.
A few weeks later Barclays contacted Mrs M, as it had given her some incorrect information 
when it had discussed the payment arrangement for the MCA in September 2018. This 
meant that the payment arrangement needed to be reviewed. Mrs M said she didnt want to 
do this as she would have it up to date by the end of the month. This didnt happen and Barclays contacted Mrs M again. She said that the arrears on the mortgage and the MCA 
would be up to date the following week. That again didnt happen.
Barclays again discussed the situation with Mrs M in March 2019. Mrs M said that the 
reason the accounts werent brought up to date was due to the expense of Christmas. She 
said she would have them up to date by the end of the week. Barclays offered to complete 
an income and expenditure exercise to be able to set a payment arrangement, but Mrs M 
didnt want to. The mortgage arrears were subsequently brought up to date, but the MCA 
balance increased rather than reduced.
The next conversation with Mrs M recorded in Barclays notes was on 11 September 2019. 
She told Barclays that she had been struggling with depression since her daughter had died 
11 years earlier. She went on to explain that her business was being developed, which 
would help to repay some of the MCA excess. She confirmed that her unsecured debts were 
in a debt management plan. Mrs M confirmed that she hadnt sought independent financial 
advice, but she would call back with information to allow an income and expenditure 
exercise to be done. 
On 16 September 2019 Mrs M had further discussions about the MCA. It was highlighted 
that the mortgage was due to end the following year and the MCA would need to be repaid. 
Mrs M confirmed she couldnt afford to pay the monthly payments to the MCA or pay off the 
capital at the end of the mortgage term. Mrs M asked if it was possible for her to re-mortgage 
and consolidate the MCA balance. Barclays told her that it was not possible if there were 
arrears on the account. A payment arrangement was set up and Mrs M said she would seek 
independent advice. 
Two days later Mrs M told Barclays that shed clear the mortgage arrears that month and 
maintain the payments shed been making to the MCA. The arrears were cleared, and the 
MCA balance was reduced to below the reserve limit. 
At the beginning of November 2019 Mrs M spoke to Barclays about the options available to 
her for extending the mortgage. Barclays followed its normal processes and Mrs M was 
recommended to take out a new mortgage. Despite a brief problem with Mrs Ms mortgage 
payments at the very beginning of 2020, Barclays allowed the mortgage to complete and the 
existing mortgage and the MCA balance were paid off in February 2020. The new mortgage 
was for around £30,000 less than the outstanding debt on the mortgage and MCA combined, 
and was to be repaid over ten years. 
Mrs M complained to Barclays about the administration of the MCA. She also raised 
concerns about a lack of information about the MCA when the mortgage was sold. 
Barclays responded to the complaint on 16 March 2020. It confirmed that the complaint 
about the lack of information from the time of the sale would need to be referred to the 
broker that had recommended the mortgage and MCA. It also explained what had happened 
with the administration of the account and why it had happened.
Mrs M contacted this service in late 2020. She didnt ask us to consider the complaint that 
shed already made to Barclays, rather she had concerns about what she viewed as a lack 
of support when she was in financial difficulties. We let Barclays know about Mrs Ms further 
concerns and it opened a new complaint. 
Barclays responded to the complaint. It highlighted that it had recently agreed a re-mortgage 
of the property with a large proportion of the MCA reserve balance consolidated into the 
mortgage. In relation to the earlier discussions about the possibility of a re-mortgage it said 
that it had correctly told Mrs M that in order for this to happen, she needed to address the arrears on the mortgage. It also commented that shed been recommended to seek 
independent financial advice. It apologised if Mrs M felt it hadnt supported her due to her 
mental health and that this was not its intention. However, its collections process was 
regulated by the FCA and although it views the sale of the property as a last resort, it was an 
option if the borrower was unable to pay the mortgage. Barclays didnt believe it had made 
any errors and so it rejected Mrs Ms complaint. 
Mrs M remained unhappy with Barclays position and asked us to consider the complaint. 
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ms complaint. He wasnt persuaded that Barclays 
provided the support it should have in 2016 when Mrs M asked to re-mortgage and 
consolidate the MCA balance into the mortgage. He recommended that Barclays pay Mrs M 
£300 for any upset or inconvenience this caused her. 
Mrs M didnt accept the investigators view. She said that she felt that if Barclays had 
allowed her to re-mortgage when she first asked, she would have saved thousands of 
pounds and her health would have recovered far more quickly. She believed that had 
Barclays allowed a re-mortgage in 2011 she would have been mortgage free by now.  Our 
investigator discussed Mrs Ms comment with her, but he wasnt able to change his 
conclusions. Mrs M asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for review.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 May 2022. In that document I set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. Below in an excerpt.
Mrs M and Barclays had many conversations about the balances and management of her 
mortgage and MCA reserve from 2012 onward. She was clear throughout that the MCA 
balance was going to be a problem to deal with, given interest was being added every 
month. When a borrower is in financial difficulties a lender is required to try to assist them, 
but that doesnt mean simply giving a borrower whatever they ask for. A lender is required to 
ensure that what is arranged is affordable, so the borrower is likely to be able to maintain the 
arrangement, and it will actually help the situation both in the short and long terms. 
It appears that Barclays listened to what Mrs M was saying about the difficulties she was 
experiencing, and it offered on several occasions to look into what it could do to help. This 
involved an assessment of her financial position  the need to do an income and expenditure 
exercise. This was to establish what the position was and what she could afford. 
That process was only completed on a couple of occasions. This is because Mrs M either 
declined to go through the process or agreed to gather the information needed and call 
Barclays back, but then didnt. In either of these situations, I cant find that Barclays did 
anything wrong as it was willing to look at what it could do to help, but Mrs M didnt want to 
have the conversations necessary to allow it to figure out what could be done. On the 
occasions Mrs M did go through the process, Barclays set up payment arrangements.
Mrs M asked to consolidate the MCA debt into the mortgage on two occasions I can see 
evidence of. Those were in December 2016 and in 2019. She was allowed to do so in 2019, 
so there is nothing to be said about that occasion. In 2016, Mrs M said that shed gather the 
information for an assessment of her situation to be done, and shed call Barclays back. She 
didnt do that. In the circumstances, I cant find that Barclays was wrong not to have moved 
forward with the consolidation at that time. 
Overall, I think Barclays offered to try to help Mrs M on numerous occasions and when she 
allowed it to, did just that. I cant hold Barclays responsible for nothing happening on the 
occasions Mrs M didnt co-operate with the process. As such, I dont consider that Barclays 
did anything wrong and I wont be requiring it to compensate Mrs M.Mrs M didnt accept my conclusions. She reiterated her account of what had happened, how 
Barclays hadnt helped her, and had actually made things worse. She repeated that had 
Barclays consolidated the MCA balance (of around £37,000) into the mortgage borrowing 
when she initially asked, she wouldnt be in the position she currently is. She considers that 
it is unfair that shes in the position she is, given she tried at a very early stage to sort the 
matter out. However, all Barclays ever said to her was that she should sell her home and 
downsize. There was no understanding or empathy displayed by Barclays and it was 
unhelpful from the beginning.
Barclays confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed it had no further 
comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered everything that Mrs M has said, as I did before I reached my provisional 
conclusions. However, I remain satisfied that Barclays was willing to try to assist Mrs M with 
her financial difficulties and did so when she co-operated with the process. I cant hold 
Barclays responsible for nothing happening on the occasions when Mrs M didnt participate 
in the process. Overall, I remain satisfied that Barclays didnt do anything wrong and I am 
not requiring it to compensate Mrs M.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 
5 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman