DRN-4382023
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to protect her when she fell 
victim to an authorised push payment (APP) safe account scam.
What happened
Mrs A says she received a call from someone (the scammer) purporting to work for her 
broadband provider. The scammer told Mrs A her computer was being hacked and 
persuaded her to download software that allowed them access to her mobile phone. From 
there the scammer withdrew money from Mrs As Barclays current account and savings 
account and transferred it first to a newly opened account with an EMI (R) and later to an 
existing account she held with another bank (M). From there the scammer transferred all 
the funds into the account held with R. Whilst this account was set up in Mrs As name, she 
was not provided with adequate details to enable her to access it and it was not within her 
control. The scammer also applied for a £25,000 personal loan in Mrs As name, which was 
again transferred out of her account.
Mrs A first informed Barclays of the scam on 23 December 2021. It acknowledged her claim 
the same day and confirmed it would investigate and try to resolve the issue quickly.
Barclays business file shows that there was confusion over whether Mrs As claim related to 
a scam or a fraud, resulting in a delay of several months before it dealt with the claim.
Mrs A started being chase for loan repayments in February 2022, and this has continued 
since. In April 2022 Barclays advised her it would be removing her overdraft limit and it later 
downgraded her account. It appears these decisions were due to the outstanding loan.
During a call on 26 April 2022, Barclays informed Mrs A that she would need to speak to M 
regarding the £35,800 that was transferred out of her account to the account she held with 
M, as that loss was not with Barclays. But it accepted that the initial £1,000 had been 
transferred directly from Barclays to R where it was in the scammers control. It said it would 
therefore accept responsibility for that loss and would refund £1,000. Mrs A says to date she 
has not received this refund.
Date Time Transaction type Amount
20 December 2021 10:46 Faster payment to R £1,000
20 December 2021 11:13 Faster payment to R (£7,000 declined due to 
insufficient funds) 
20 December 2021 12:54 Faster payment to M £9,000
20 December 2021 13:19 Faster payment to M £1,800
20 December 2021 13:53 Faster payment to M £10,000
20 December 2021 14:21 Faster payment to M £10,000
20 December 2021 14:22 Faster payment to M £5,000
Total loss £36,800Barclays issued its final response on 29 April 2022. It said it was not responsible for Mrs As 
losses as the funds had first been moved into accounts in Mrs As name before being 
transferred into the control of the scammers. It advised Mrs A to contact M and R to recover 
her lost funds. But it accepted the £25,000 loan had been fraudulently opened in her name.
It stated that Barclays had undertaken the necessary measures to remove this from your 
name and carry out a full credit cleanse. It also offered Mrs A £200 compensation in 
recognition of the severe delays with the investigation.
Our Investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint, as she didnt think Barclays needed to 
intervene before processing the payments from Mrs As accounts. She also considered that 
Barclays had acted reasonably in agreeing to write off the loan.
In the months following our Investigators opinion, Mrs A has been in contact with us to say 
she has continued to be chased for the loan debt by a debt collection agency. Following our 
intervention, Mrs A received a notification from one debt collection agency that it was no 
longer administering the debt, but shortly afterwards she was contacted by another debt 
collection agency. During this time Barclays has confirmed to us that it has failed to take the 
necessary actions to write off the loan.
The complaint was then passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision on 
14 September 2023, explaining why I was minded to uphold Mrs As complaint. I have set 
out my provisional findings below, but in summary I explained that Mrs As initial transfer was 
covered by the CRM Code and should be refunded as such. I considered that Barclays could 
have prevented Mrs As subsequent loss had it taken appropriate action when she instructed 
her later payments which ought to have looked unusual to it. I also concluded that it had 
caused her substantial distress and inconvenience by failing to write off the loan as it had 
promised to do.  
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently minded to uphold Mrs As complaint for the following 
reasons:
The initial £1,000 transfer from Mrs As account should be covered under the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). Barclays 
should therefore refund this plus 8% simple interest from the date it agreed to refund 
it to the date of settlement.
Theres evidence to suggest that at the time of the scam, Barclays was on notice that 
Mrs A may potentially be falling victim to a safe account scam. Yet the actions it took 
were not sufficient or appropriate in the circumstances to help protect her from the 
risk of financial harm. Had Barclays acted as Id have expected it to Mrs As loss 
could have been prevented. I think Barclays should therefore refund Mrs A £10,800 
plus 8% simple interest.
Barclays has previously agreed to write off the £25,000 and cleanse Mrs As credit 
file. Barclays should ensure this is now completed with no further delay.
In addition to this, it is evident from Barclays file, and its interactions with Mrs A 
since, that it failed to properly investigate her scam claim in a timely manner and it 
then failed to action the redress it has promised her. I consider this has caused Mrs A substantial distress and inconvenience over an extended period, and so consider 
Barclays should award her an additional £800 compensation, in addition to the £200 
Barclays has previously paid her.
I will set out my reasons for reaching these conclusions below.
Overall, while its clear Mrs A was tricked by a scammer, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 Im satisfied that the transactions in dispute were authorised by Mrs A. 
This is because Mrs A provided the scammers with sufficient access to her online banking 
account to enable them to carry out the payments. She was also aware that money would 
be leaving her account. So, although she didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of her 
account, Mrs A would normally be liable for it. And under the terms and conditions of the 
account, where a valid payment instruction has been received Barclays obligation is to 
follow the instructions that she provides. But where a customer made a payment because 
of the actions of a scammer, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for a bank to 
reimburse its customer, even though the payment was authorised.
In deciding this case, I have considered whether Barclays ought to have reimbursed 
Mrs A under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to have done more to 
protect her from potential financial harm before processing the payment instructions. I 
have also considered its overall handling of her complaint.
The CRM Code
During a call on 26 April 2022, Barclays advised Mrs A that it would refund the initial 
£1,000 payment on the basis that it was transferred into the R account. I have inferred 
from this that Barclays recognised that it was liable to refund it under the CRM code. This 
is on the basis that this initial payment was sent to the account with R that was under the 
scammers control. Mrs A says to date she has not received this refund.
As such, I consider that Barclays should refund Mrs A £1,000, as it is required to under 
the CRM Code. It should also add 8% simple interest to this sum from 26 April 2022 to 
the date of settlement. While I consider Barclays took too long to reach its initial 
conclusions, I think it is appropriate that it pay interest from the date it reached its 
decision as I will address the overall delays in this case separately.
Should Barclays have done more to prevent Mrs As loss?
In accordance with regulations and good industry practice, Barclays also has a duty to 
protect customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If 
in breach of that duty, Barclays fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert 
a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for those losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
I should note that this duty applies whether the loss occurred from Barclays account, or 
at some later point in the payment journey. So, while I understand Barclays has 
suggested it is not responsible for Mrs As losses relating to the payment to M - as the 
funds were transferred to an account in her name before being transferred to the 
scammers control  this does not absolve it of its responsibility to intervene if it had 
grounds to believe its customer was at risk of financial harm from fraud. Mrs As losses, 
though not arising from the initial transfer, ought to have been, and indeed were, within 
the contemplation of, and reasonably foreseeable to, Barclays. Thats clear from the fact 
Barclays presented Mrs A with a safe account scam warning. So, Im satisfied it can be 
held responsible for the loss Mrs A suffered.Its clear from Barclays file that it had recognised at the time the payments were 
instructed that they appeared out of character for Mrs As usual account usage. It noted 
that Mrs A rarely used online banking  prior to her transactions in December 2021 she 
had previously logged on in February 2021. It also noted that Paying another own 
account had been selected as a payment purpose, which had triggered a written warning 
to be presented to Mrs A - although the details of this are unclear.
While I think a written warning may have been appropriate in relation to Mrs As first 
payment, I consider that Barclays should have been further concerned when a £7,000 
transaction that exceeded the accounts overdraft limit was attempted, followed by a 
second payment of £9,000 within a few of hours of the first payment. Looking at Mrs As 
bank statements from January 2021, I cant see that she had made any payments close 
to this size in the past. And given the uncharacteristic use of the account, and the fact 
that the payment purpose highlighted a potential scam, I consider Barclays should have 
intervened and spoken with Mrs A before processing the payment. Had it done so I think 
it would have easily uncovered the scam as Mrs A was not provided with a cover story, 
and so would most likely have told Barclays that shed been advised that her account was 
under attack and that she needed to move money to keep it safe. Barclays would then 
have been on notice at this point that Mrs A was falling victim to a scam and could have 
advised her accordingly. I have no reason to believe Mrs A would not have heeded this 
warning and agreed to any actions Barclays would have suggested to protect the funds 
within her account.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Barclays did enough to protect Mrs A from the risk of 
financial harm from scams. It was the expert and there was enough reason for it to be 
concerned that she may have been falling victim to a fraud or scam. Had it intervened 
appropriately, Im satisfied the scam would have been easily uncovered and Mrs As loss 
could have been prevented.
I have thought carefully about whether Mrs A should bear some responsibility for her loss 
by way of contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). But I 
dont think she should.
Mrs A was unwittingly targeted by scammers. The scam was designed so Mrs A was put 
under immense pressure to act quickly or risk losing all her money. Mrs A has also 
explained that at the time she was unwell and not able to think straight, but she was 
persuaded the caller was legitimate as they provided her with their name and ID number. 
She said they also asked her to do things on her computer which made her believe the 
caller was genuinely from her broadband provider. While I accept with hindsight the scam 
set up may not have held up to scrutiny, I accept that in the heat of the moment a 
reasonable person put in a similar position might be similarly persuaded that the call was 
legitimate. Particularly bearing in mind the social engineering and pressure tactics used in 
the call that made it more difficult for Mrs A to identify and reflect on any warning signs.
Ive also considered the impact of the written warning Barclays said it presented to Mrs A. 
But given that it has been accepted the scammer took control of Mrs As account and 
directed all transactions from the account, I consider it most likely the scammer similarly 
intercepted the scam warning. So, I cant reasonably conclude Mrs A acted unreasonably 
by failing to follow a warning, as I think its unlikely she saw it.
In all the circumstances, I dont think there was contributory negligence here. Mrs A was 
simply a victim of a sophisticated scam. And so, I cant fairly say she was partly to blame 
for what happened.
Barclays handling of the case and the impact on Mrs AHaving reviewed Barclays investigation file, its clear there have been multiple errors in 
dealing with Mrs As initial claim and subsequent complaint.
Initially many months were lost when Barclays was unable to decide whether to consider 
this as a fraud claim or a scam claim. On 14 February 2022 Barclays wrote to Mrs A to 
advise From what youve told us we can see youve been the victim of a scam. 
Fortunately, we were able to stop the money leaving your account. This means you 
havent suffered any loss. Its unclear why this letter was sent to Mrs A as its apparent 
from her bank statements that money did leave her account. 
Barclays own claims handlers reflected on the poor service Mrs A had received, with one 
noting in April 2022 Can some please take rresponability for the claim and work it, 
customer is borrowing money and still has a loan outstanding. This has been going on for 
four months now. Once the scam claim was closed it seems no contact was made with 
the customer other than to tell them there is no loss, which was very upsetting for the 
customer as they have lost thousands. Can this be picked up Asap [sic].
Unfortunately, despite Barclays recognising its own service concerns in April 2022, its 
handling of this complaint matter has not improved.
Despite Mrs A being told in April 2022 that she would be refunded £1,000 that was sent 
directly to the scammers this has not happened. But far more significantly, despite 
multiple assurances that the £25,000 loan would be written off and her credit file 
cleansed, this has still yet to happen to this day.
Mrs A is understandably worried by this outstanding debt, and the impact it is having on 
her credit file, and has shared with us her distress that she has continued to be chased 
for a debt she does not owe. Mrs A informed us in June 2023 that she was so stressed 
having received further correspondence from Barclays and a debt collection agency that 
she had been off work as a result.
I understand Barclays offered and paid £200 compensation to Mrs A in April 2022 when it 
first considered her complaint. I dont think that sum was unreasonable at the time. But I 
must now consider the overall impact Barclays actions, and more precisely inactions, 
have had on Mrs A over the past 20 months. And I consider that Barclays failure to 
appropriately resolve this and failure to do what it has promised has caused Mrs A 
substantial distress, upset and worry over a very sustained period. In the circumstances I 
consider Barclays should pay Mrs A £800 compensation, in addition to the £200 it 
previously paid her.
My provisional decision
Im currently minded to uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above. To put the 
matter right, I require Barclays to:
Reimburse £1,000 to Mrs A, plus 8% simple interest per annum from 26 April 2022 
when it agreed it reimburse her to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully 
deductible)
Reimburse £10,800 to Mrs A, plus 8% simple interest from 20 December 2021 to the 
date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible)
Write off the £25,000 personal loan and take the necessary steps to cleanse Mrs As 
credit filePay Mrs A £800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has suffered.
Mrs A and Barclays have both responded confirming they accept my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mrs A and Barclays have accepted my provisional decision, I have no reason to 
change my decision as set out above. I therefore require Barclays to refund Mrs A for her 
loss and compensate her for the avoidable distress and inconvenience it has caused.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above. To put the matter right, I require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Reimburse £1,000 to Mrs A, plus 8% simple interest per annum from 26 April 2022 
when it agreed it reimburse her to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully 
deductible)
Reimburse £10,800 to Mrs A, plus 8% simple interest from 20 December 2021 to the 
date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible)
Write off the £25,000 personal loan and take the necessary steps to cleanse Mrs As 
credit file
Pay Mrs A £800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman