DRN-3369683
The complaint
In summary, Mr C has complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Aquacard, provided him with 
credit limit increases on his credit card, when he wasnt able to afford them. 
What happened
In March 2012, NewDay provided Mr C with a credit card. The initial credit limit was £250. In 
March 2016, the credit limit was increased to £550, in May 2017 it was increased to £1,150, 
in September 2017 it was increased to £2,050, in March 2018 to £3,300 and in October 2018 
to £3,950.  
In its response to Mr Cs complaint, NewDay explained why it thought the credit card was 
affordable when it was first approved. And it said the subsequent limit increases were also 
appropriate with the exception of the limit increase in March 2018. It went on to say this limit 
increase shouldnt have been offered due to the way Mr C had managed his account.  And 
as a result, it upheld his complaint in part. 
Mr Cs concerns were reviewed by one of our investigators. He explained that Mr C had 
agreed the original sale of the credit card couldnt be looked at. He went on to say why he 
thought the checks NewDay had carried out in respect of the March 2016 credit limit 
increase were reasonable and proportionate. And he also explained why he didnt think the 
limit increases from 2017 should have been provided to Mr C. 
In response, NewDay explained why it disagreed with the investigators recommendations. 
In summary it said cash withdrawals were within its lending criteria. It also said Mr C had no 
payday loans or lending arrangements or arrears. There were no late payments on the 
account until November 2017. The balance was paid off in August 2016. The account was 
used again in September/October 2016 and the limit wasnt exceeded until June 2018. 
Proportional interest and charges had been refunded on the account after March 2018. Its 
refunds reflected that the credit limits in April and October 2018 shouldnt have taken place. 
It believed the credit limit increases in May and November 2017 were applied after 
reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out. 
The investigator said in response that his opinion remained the same. As NewDay didnt 
agree with the investigators assessment of the complaint, it has been passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has complained about two different products. And I dont think its unreasonable as a 
result that the complaints have been split. 
If the complaints about the two different products were considered together, then Mr C would 
be put in the position of potentially having to accept an outcome for both aspects of his 
complaint, where one might be upheld and the complaint about the other product not upheld. 
And in this case, I dont think that would be fair to Mr C. So, Im satisfied it has been 
appropriate to set up two separate complaints for Mr C.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint in part. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if NewDay treated Mr C 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the credit card.
1) Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay his credit card in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did NewDay make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did NewDay act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would 
be able to repay the credit provided to him in a sustainable way? 
The rules that NewDay had to follow, required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess, whether Mr C could afford to repay the credit card he was wanting to 
take out. This is often referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks it needed to carry out, but they did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think what 
this meant in practice, was that the scope and extent of NewDays checks needed to take 
into account things such as the amount of credit being provided, the interest rate, Mr Cs 
financial circumstances and any indications of customer vulnerability.  
The checks NewDay needed to carry as part of its affordability assessment, had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this, is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying back the credit would cause Mr C any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for him. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount of credit being 
provided, the interest applied on the credit card account, the monthly repayments and the 
total charge for the credit. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And because of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be more 
thorough if Mr C had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for him to 
make the repayments with a low income. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether NewDay completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would be able to make repayments on his 
credit card account in a sustainable way. Ill look at each credit limit increase individually.
March 2016 credit limit increase
NewDay increased the card limit by £300 to £550. Mr C had been using the credit card for 
approximately four years. NewDay has said it used data from a credit reference agency when assessing whether to increase Mr Cs credit limit. From the information I have it looks 
like the information NewDay obtained about Mr C, showed he had no active pay day loans 
and no accounts that were in arrears. The account information in the preceding six months 
shows Mr C was utilising about 65% of his credit limit. He was making regular payments to 
the account, and there were no late payments or account charges. The initial credit provided 
was relatively modest taking into account the information NewDay had about Mr C. And I 
think in the context of the amount of increased credit being offered, Mr Cs financial 
circumstances and the information NewDay had from the information and checks it carried 
out, I believe its checks in respect of this credit limit increase were reasonable and 
proportionate. And it wasnt therefore unreasonable for it to conclude that Mr C would be 
able to sustainably afford to repay the increased amount of credit he was being offered.
May 2017 credit limit increase
In May 2017, the credit limit was increased from £550 to £1,150. This was a significant 
increase on the credit limit Mr C already had. It looks like NewDay reviewed similar 
information to that which it had in March 2016. It concluded the cash transactions in the 
preceding six months were not a cause for concern and that Mr C had no evidence of pay 
day loans, no payment arrangements with other lenders no arrears with other lenders or 
financial difficulty and affordability issues. It was of the view he was managing his credit well. 
I dont agree with NewDays assessment. I say this because Mr C had been using 
approximately 80% of his credit limit in the three months prior to the increase in May 2017. 
And he had been making monthly payments for the previous 3 months on average of £40 a 
month which indicates to me that he wasnt making any significant inroads into the 
outstanding balance on the account. His total credit balances were approximately £8,000, 
which was a sizeable increase from when the limit had been increased the previous year. He 
was making cash withdrawals using the card, which was a change in the way the card had 
been used in the previous six months. And I think therefore, this was a possible flag that he 
was having financial difficulties, as he was in effect borrowing cash at a significant rate of 
interest.
NewDays focus seems to have been on whether the information it had indicated any 
variance in its lending criteria parameters.  But, in my opinion the information it had about Mr 
C based on the checks it carried out, should have caused NewDay to question his ability to 
sustainably afford to make repayments on the account  particularly in respect of the 
outstanding balance. So, Im not satisfied in the circumstances of this case, that the checks 
NewDay carried out were reasonable or proportionate in respect of this credit limit increase. 
And I think information from the checks it did carry out, should have prompted it to carry out 
further checks in respect of Mr Cs financial circumstances
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Its difficult to know what further borrower focussed checks NewDay would have carried out if 
it had carried out the reasonable and proportionate checks that it should have done. But Mr 
C has provided copies of his bank statements from around the time the credit limit increase 
was provided. And this I think gives a good insight into his financial position at around the 
time the credit limit was increased. I can see from these that in the two months leading up to the credit limit increase, his bank 
account was constantly overdrawn by several thousand pounds. This indicates to me that Mr 
C was struggling to keep on top of his finances. 
Did NewDay make a fair lending decision when it increased the credit limit?
So, if NewDay had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, I think these in 
conjunction with the information it already had about Mr C, all should have led it to question 
whether he would be able to sustainably afford to repay the further credit it was intending to 
provide to him. If it had, I think it should reasonably have concluded that Mr C would have 
had difficulties in repaying any increased level of credit on his credit card account. And it 
shouldnt therefore have provided him with the increased credit limit, because of the issues 
that Ive highlighted above.
September 2017 credit limit increase
In September 2017, the credit limit was approved to increase from £1,150 to £2,050. This 
was a significant increase on the credit limit Mr C already had, which had only been 
increased a few months previously. NewDay has said this was applied to the account from 
November 2017. It looks like NewDay reviewed similar information to that which it had in 
May 2017. It concluded the cash transactions in the preceding six months were not a cause 
for concern. It was of the view he was managing his credit well. 
I dont agree with its assessment. I say this because Mr C had been making monthly 
payments to the account for the previous 3 months, on average of approximately £30 a 
month which indicates to me that he wasnt making any significant inroads into the 
outstanding balance on the account. And that was less than the payments that he had been 
making prior to the previous credit limit increase in May 2017. His total credit balances were 
an average of £7,800 over the previous 3 months. He continued to make cash withdrawals 
using the card.  And I think therefore, this was a possible flag that he was having financial 
difficulties, as he was in effect borrowing cash at a significant rate of interest.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Its difficult to know what further borrower focussed checks NewDay would have carried out if 
it had carried out the reasonable and proportionate checks that it should have done. But 
Mr C has provided copies of his bank statements from around the time the credit limit 
increase was provided. And this I think, gives a good insight into his financial position at 
around the time the credit limit was increased. 
I can see from these that in the months leading up to the credit limit increase, his bank 
account was constantly overdrawn by several thousand pounds. This indicates to me that 
Mr C was struggling to keep on top of his finances. 
Did NewDay make a fair lending decision when it increased the credit limit?
So, if NewDay had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, I think these in 
conjunction with the information it already had about Mr C, all should have led it to question 
whether he would be able to afford to repay the further credit it was intending to provide to 
him. And if it had, I think it should reasonably have concluded that it shouldnt have provided 
Mr C with the increased credit limit, because of the issues that Ive highlighted above.NewDay accepts that it shouldnt have increased the credit limit again in April and October 
2018. So, I dont need to make any findings in respect of liability in respect of those credit 
limit increases. 
Putting things right
NewDay should put Mr C in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt been given the 
credit card limit increases, albeit hes had the benefit of the money borrowed. So, he will 
need to repay the money he borrowed. This means NewDay will need to:
A. Refund any interest charged on the account on any balances over £550 plus all 
late payment and over limit fees Mr C has been charged from May 2017. Any 
refund should be used to reduce the outstanding balance on the account. And it 
shouldnt apply any interest on any outstanding balance.
B. If  when NewDay works out what Mr C would have owed each month without the 
interest, charges and fees  he paid more than enough to clear his balance, 
NewDay should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr C paid. And it should carry 
on paying interest until the point when Mr C would have owed NewDay something 
on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% simple a year. 
C. NewDay should tell Mr C what its done to work out A and B. NewDay should also 
remove any adverse information its recorded against Mr C on his credit file since 
May 2017, as a result of it providing him with the credit limit increases.
D. NewDay has already calculated and paid compensation to Mr C in respect of the 
2018 credit limit increases. It may take this into account and deduct the 
compensation it has already paid from any further compensation that may be owed 
to Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint about NewDay Limited in part. 
It needs to calculate and pay Mr C compensation using the methodology Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman