DRN-3093036
The complaint
Mr M complains that Equifax Limited took too long to remove data from his credit report. He 
is also concerned about problems accessing his credit report and that multiple credit report 
requests are visible on his credit file
What happened
In November 2020, a business that I will refer to as M sent Equifax a credit file adjustment 
request. Equifax didnt action this request until February 2021. Mr M is unhappy with the 
length of time that it took Equifax to carry out Ms request. Mr M says he had to spend time 
trying to resolve the problem. 
Mr M says that a failed attempt to generate his credit report appeared on his credit file after 
Equifax told him it wouldnt. Mr M is generally unhappy with the service he received from 
Equifax and wants it to apologise and pay him compensation for the mistakes it has made.
The investigator asked Equifax to pay Mr M £50 for the trouble and upset it had caused. The 
investigator explained that the generating of credit reports wasnt something that a potential 
lender could see, so hed not asked Equifax to do anything more in relation to this aspect of 
Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M is unhappy with the outcome that the investigator proposed. He says he was impacted 
by the information not updating on his credit file for months. Mr M points out that he had to 
bring the problem to Equifaxs attention and wonders what wouldve happened if he hadnt 
done so.
Mr M says its not relevant that the credit report requests dont impact his creditworthiness. 
He says Equifax made a mistake when it didnt tell him this would happen every time he 
accessed his credit report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that this service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses that 
we cover. My role is to look at the problem faced by the consumer and in this case, see if 
Equifax has done anything wrong. As part of this process, I cant punish or penalise 
businesses for the way in which they conduct their business  thats the role of the regulator.
Equifax accepts that it shouldve updated Mr Ms report more quickly than it did. The delay 
was due to a dispute between Equifax and M. I agree with the investigator that Mr M 
shouldnt have been affected by a dispute over which he had no control.
I appreciate that Mr M is concerned about what wouldve happened if he hadnt made 
Equifax aware of the delay in updating his credit file. But I cant award compensation for 
something that hasnt happened. Luckily Mr M spotted the problem and made sure it was put 
right. 
Whilst I cant see that the delay affected Mr Ms ability to obtain credit, I think that he has 
been caused inconvenience as a result of trying to get Equifax to update his credit file. And 
the delay caused Mr M to worry. Although he had to contact Equifax and M to put things 
right, I cant see that the level of contact was overly frequent or prolonged. So, Im satisfied 
that an award of £50 fairly reflects the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr M by the 
delay. 
Mr M is unhappy that Equifax didnt tell him that it would place a mark on his credit file each 
time he accessed his report. The investigator has already explained that Mr M viewing his 
own report, wont have an impact on his credit worthiness. The soft searches  will only be 
visible to Mr M and not to any businesses. As I dont consider this aspect of Mr Ms 
complaint has caused any loss, I dont require Equifax to pay him additional compensation. 
Im sorry if my decision comes as a disappointment to Mr M.
Putting things right
Equifax Limited should pay Mr M £50.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, Equifax Limited should 
pay Mr M £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman