DRN-2096575
 
The complaint
Mr S, on behalf of M, complains about how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) dealt 
with a request for a new account card and PIN.
What happened
Mr S says he lost his personal account card but NatWest cancelled the account card for his 
company M by mistake. He says NatWest offered £75 compensation which he accepted but 
there were a number of problems getting a new account card and PIN. Mr S says it took 
some two months for them to arrive which caused a severe impact on his business, and he 
would like compensation for this.
NatWest accepts it made a mistake by cancelling the account card and has paid 
compensation. It says it sent the new PIN and card to the correct address and it isn't 
responsible for the safe delivery of mail. NatWest says it arranged for the PIN and new card 
to be sent to a branch and doesn't accept making a mistake.
Mr S brought the complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought the compensation was fair and reasonable and that NatWest had sent the new PIN 
and card. And wouldn't be aware there was a problem until Mr S told it.
Mr S doesn't accept that view and says he depends on the account card.
The complaint was referred to me and I asked NatWest to confirm if the PIN and card were 
sent to its branch by internal mail as it seemed a PIN was sent on three occasions to its 
branch. I also asked it to consider, if that was the case, that  further compensation of £75 
would be appropriate,
NatWest says the PIN and card were sent via its internal mail but can't say if they were 
received in branch. It says it will agree a further £75 with a view to resolving this complaint.
Mr S has said he wouldn't accept a further £75 compensation and says he has been caused 
stress by what's taken place and there has been a financial cost to his business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that NatWest should pay a further £75 compensation for what took place after 
the original mistake.
There is no real dispute here that NatWest made a mistake by cancelling the wrong account 
card. I'm satisfied that it apologised for what took place and paid a fair and reasonable 
amount of £75 compensation which Mr S accepted on behalf of M.
I'm satisfied that NatWest then correctly ordered a new account card and PIN and correctly sent it to M's address. NatWest is not responsible for the safe delivery of mail, and so I can't 
fairly hold it responsible for the new card and PIN not being delivered. I think that is 
something Mr S will need to take up with the business that does deliver the mail.
I'm also satisfied that NatWest fairly agreed to arrange for a new account card and PIN to be 
sent to its branch and that the card was received. I can see that three attempts were made 
to send the PIN to branch but for unknown reasons Mr S didn't receive the PIN. NatWest has 
confirmed the PIN and cards were sent via its internal mail and so in those circumstances I 
think it was responsible for the delivery of those items. There is no dispute that it took some 
time for Mr S to receive both PIN and card and I'm sure Mr S's business was caused 
inconvenience. 
I appreciate that Mr S says he was caused stress as a result of what took place. I have no 
reason to doubt that was the case. But this is a complaint brought by M, and I have to 
consider the impact the delay had on the business and not Mr S. I also appreciate that Mr S 
says there was a financial impact caused by the delay but Mr S hasn't told me what that cost 
was or provided any evidence of it. I also have to consider that part of the delay here was 
caused by events outside NatWest's control.
Overall I'm satisfied that NatWest ought to increase its compensation offer by £75 for what 
took place in sending the PIN to its branch and for the delay. I can see that NatWest agreed 
to pay that amount in an attempt to resolve this complaint. But Mr S didn't accept that offer.  
Putting things right
I intend to order NatWest to pay a further £75 compensation which I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order National Westminster Bank Plc to 
pay M £75 compensation. Mr S's acceptance of that offer on behalf of M would be in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman