DRN-2086297
The complaint
Mr G has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly settled a claim against his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. This led to his no claims discount (NCD) and premium 
being affected. 
What happened
Mr G was involved in an accident when a lorry collided with a trailer he was towing. The lorry 
was from outside of the UK and AXA was informed of the accident over a year later, via a 
third party. 
When AXA asked Mr G about the accident he said there had been an incident but didnt 
think hed caused the damage the lorry driver claimed. He said there was only a small 
scratch on his trailer which couldnt have twisted the lorrys bumper. He also said the 
accident was on a different date to the one reported by the lorry driver. 
AXA said it tried to defend the claim but didnt think it would be able to prove Mr G wasnt to 
blame if the case went to court. So, it settled the claim against Mr Gs policy. 
Mr G remained unhappy, as he thought the claim was fraudulent. So, he brought his 
complaint to our service. He said AXA shouldnt have settled the claim against him and he 
was unhappy with the impact the claim had on his NCD and premium.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He thought 
AXA had carried out a reasonable investigation into what happened and settled the claim in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He found that it was the claim that had 
caused Mr Gs premium to increase. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said hed been told, by someone who repairs lorries, that it would have 
been very difficult for him to have caused the damage to the lorry with his trailer. He said the 
lorry driver had reported the accident on a different date. Mr G asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, as thats the role of the court. 
However, I look to see that an insurer has carried out a fair and reasonable investigation into 
what happened and made a decision thats in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy gives AXA the right to take over and defend or 
settle a claim as it sees fit. This might mean AXA makes a decision Mr G disagrees with, but 
the policy allows it to do so. Again, I look to see that AXA has done this fairly and 
reasonably. 
With no CCTV of the accident or witnesses its impossible to know exactly what happened 
during the accident. So, AXA had to make a decision based on what it thought it could prove 
or defend if the case went to court. 
Both Mr G and the lorry driver thought each other was at fault for what happened. AXA 
asked an investigator to interview Mr G about the circumstances of the accident and also 
looked at photos of both vehicles and the location of the accident. 
I understand Mr Gs frustration that the lorry driver seems to have given the incorrect date. 
However, there isnt any dispute that this incident occurred and Mr G said both he and the 
other driver stopped and walked around the vehicles. 
There is a photo that shows some damage to Mr Gs trailer which shows there was a 
collision. And while I appreciate Mr G has received an opinion that the damage isnt 
consistent with the damage to the lorry, AXA felt the costs involved in the claim were 
consistent with the circumstances of the accident. It didnt think it would be able to prove    
Mr G didnt cause that damage if the case went to court. 
I appreciate Mr Gs strength of feeling about this, but I think AXA has carried out a fair and 
reasonable investigation into what happened. It looked at both Mr G and the lorry drivers 
accounts of what happened, pictures of the damage and location and used its knowledge of 
what it would likely be able to defend if the case went to court. I also think its decision was in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
AXA has provided information to show how it stepped back Mr Gs NCD as a result of the 
accident. As this is in line with how it reduces NCD in the event of a fault claim, Im satisfied 
this is fair and reasonable. Both the reduction in NCD and additional claim would have had 
an impact on Mr Gs renewal premium. 
As I think AXA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy Im not going to ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman