DRN-3499778
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt make her aware that a 
payment deferral on her credit card account would negatively impact her credit score.
What happened
Mrs Bs financial circumstances were impacted by the Covid pandemic. She applied for a
three-month payment deferral on her Halifax credit card which was approved. The payment
deferral was subsequently extended by a further three months in line with the updated
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) temporary Covid relief guidance. Halifax also refunded 
some interest during this period as a gesture of goodwill.
Under the guidance, the FCA said the missed payments during the period of the Covid 
relief scheme shouldnt have detrimental impact on a customers credit file. However, the 
FCA guidance only covered six months missed payments.
By December 2020 Mrs B had benefited from six months payment deferrals in line with the 
FCA guidance. But her financial circumstances hadnt improved. So, Halifax considered her 
situation - as it is required to do under the usual regulations applicable to consumers in
financial difficulties. And it offered a further three-month payment deferral as an income and 
expenditure breakdown showed Mrs B couldnt recommence her contractual payments.    
Mrs B ultimately accepted the offer which was later extended further.  
   
But Mrs B says she wasnt told these later payment deferrals would be recorded as missed 
payments on her credit file and she discovered her credit score has gone down.  So, she 
complained to Halifax. 
Halifax looked into Mrs Bs complaint. But it said Mrs B had been told that there would be an
impact on her credit file. And it didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs B didnt agree with Halifaxs 
response and bought her complaint to us.
One of investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. She thought 
Halifax had told Mrs B that her credit file would be impacted during the telephone call when 
she agreed to the new payment deferral in December 2020. So, she didnt think Halifax had 
done anything wrong. Mrs B didnt accept this outcome, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
Mrs B has also raised a complaint about our service. This is being dealt with separately and 
does not form part of this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to hear the impact the subsequent payment deferrals have 
had on Mrs B, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong. I know Mrs B will be disappointed, so 
Ill explain why.
As mentioned above, the first six months payment deferrals were granted to Mrs B in line 
with the FCA Covid relief guidance which was introduced at the start of the pandemic. While 
customers were on this scheme, lenders were told not to report adverse data to the credit 
reference agencies (CRA). And I havent seen anything to suggest that Halifax recorded any 
missed payments on Mrs Bs credit file during this period. So, Im satisfied that Halifax didnt 
do anything wrong at this point.
 
Later in 2020 the FCA announced that the Covid relief scheme would be changing. Lenders 
were still required to support consumers suffering from financial difficulties. But what support 
they provided was dependent on the customers individual circumstances and, additionally, 
lenders were required to re-start reporting account information to the CRA.
By December 2020  Mrs B had already had six months payment deferrals, so she had 
exhausted the Covid relief process. But her circumstances hadnt improved. Its not in 
dispute that Halifax completed and income and expenditure breakdown which showed Mrs B 
couldnt afford her contractual payments. And that Halifax agreed another three-month 
payment deferral which was later extended further  to at least September 2021 based on 
the information I have seen. Given the circumstances, Im satisfied that Halifax treated Mrs B 
fairly at this time. I can see Mrs B told Halifax that her financial difficulties were temporary, 
and she expected them to improve as her working pattern returned to normal. Providing   
Mrs B with some breathing space  several months where she didnt need to make any 
payments, gave her the opportunity to get her finances back on track. 
But the crux of Mrs Bs complaint is that she says she wasnt told that the payment deferrals 
agreed from December 2020 onwards would be recorded as missed payments on the credit 
file. So, Ive looked carefully at the records available from the discussions between Halifax 
and Mrs B in December 2020. 
Having done so, Im persuaded that Halifax did tell Mrs B that her credit file would be 
impacted largely for the same reasons as explained by the investigator. In December 2020, 
Halifax has shown that it recorded detailed notes of the discussions it had with Mrs B. These 
notes indicate that Mrs B initially declined Halifaxs offer of a further three-month payment 
deferral as she didnt want any impact on her credit file. However, the notes go on to show 
that Mrs B called back and agreed for the payment deferral to go ahead. 
I accept Halifax may not have specifically said the payments would be recorded as being 
missed, but Im satisfied Mrs B was given enough information to know that her credit score 
would be negatively impacted i.e. go down as a result. 
In any event, even if Mrs B wasnt told of the impact on her credit file, this doesnt mean 
Halifax would be required to remove the missed payments from her credit history. I say this 
because Mrs Bs income and expenditure breakdown showed she couldnt make her 
contractual payments. So, Im persuaded  given her financial situation, Mrs B would have 
always opted for the payment deferral because I havent seen anything to make me think 
there was another reasonable alternative available to her. 
I do of course appreciate that Mrs B financial difficulties came about because of an 
unprecedented event which was not her fault. But as the payment deferrals - agreed from 
December 2020 onwards, were no longer covered by the FCAs Covid relief scheme, I 
agree with the investigator that Halifax recorded the missed payments correctly from when 
the new payment deferral was agreed. And I would expect this information to continue to be 
recorded for the months the payment deferrals remained in place. 
It may be helpful for Mrs B to know that he can contact the credit reference agencies directlyand ask to record a notice of correction  this means she has the opportunity to record her
circumstances behind the missed payments. More information can be found here:
https://www.experian.co.uk/consumer/guides/notice-of-correction.html
https://help.equifax.co.uk/EquifaxOnlineHelp/s/article/How-can-a-Notice-of-Correction-
helpme-manage-my-finances
I note Mrs B has some concerns that her credit card statements were still showing her 
contractual payments as being due to be paid. However, Halifax was required to provide   
Mrs B the true status of her account i.e. the balance outstanding, any arrears and what 
needed to be paid in order to bring the account up to date. I can see Halifax did send Mrs B 
separate letters confirming the payment deferrals had been agreed. So, Mrs B was aware 
that she didnt need to make payments while the payment arrangements were in place. So, 
Im satisfied Halifax provided accurate information to Mrs B in this regard.
Overall, it follows that Im satisfied Halifax has treated Mrs B fairly. It has supported Mrs B 
with her financial difficulties, reported accurate information to the CRA when it was required 
to do so and provided sufficient information for her to be aware of the status of her account. 
So, I wont be asking Halifax to take any further action in respect of this complaint.  
   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman