DRN-4374711
The complaint
Ms G on behalf of club M and M (M), complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) revoked 
Business Internet Banking (BIB) access without prior notice due to inactivity and about the 
delays experienced in reinstating it. Ms G is also unhappy that HSBC failed to remove an 
individual from the mandate which she believes contributed to the delays in reinstating the 
BIB access. Ms G wants HSBC to compensate M for financial loss resulting from not having 
access to the account.   
What happened
M holds a business account with HSBC. In May 2021 Ms G tried to access Ms business 
account online and was denied access. HSBC explained that access to online banking had 
been revoked as there had been no activity on the account for over six months. This was 
due to the pandemic preventing M from operating during the period. Because M wasnt 
registered for telephone banking it meant its funds couldnt be accessed. 
HSBCs records show it wrote to M on 28 April 2021 asking it to reapply for BIB as it had 
been deleted. HSBC received a new application from M for BIB on 11 May 2021. HSBC 
responded to this by letter dated 18 May requesting a copy of Ms governing document 
showing that the committee agrees Ms G could have access to BIB and that it accepts the 
primary user will have access to the accounts online and the ability to make payments.
In response to this, minutes of an emergency meeting held by the committee of M was sent 
to HSBC confirming it agreed for Ms G to be the primary user for BIB.
In June Ms G visited a branch of HSBC to try and arrange access to Ms business account 
and discovered a former treasurer was still named on the account. Ms G says shed 
previously removed this individual 20 years earlier but this hadnt happened and so theyd 
tried again to do this in 2018 by completing another mandate to have the individual removed.
Another mandate was completed but was rejected as it wasnt authorised by the current 
secretary, instead being signed by the chair. HSBC also rejected the minutes of the meeting 
provided for BIB reinstatement as it needed to see the governing document.
On 30 June Ms G was told over the phone that the governing documents hadnt been 
received and were required. At this point Ms G raised a complaint regarding the delays in 
granting access to BIB and that shed been asked to complete the same forms several 
times.
Following this Ms G visited a branch of HSBC with the current treasurer of M and they both 
provided ID documents. They discovered that the previous mandate hadnt been actioned 
and were advised to complete another one.
HSBCs records show that by 13 July it had received the new mandate and the constitution 
and confirmed the documents had been scanned and referred for action.
HSBCs internal notes from 23 to 27 July show it wasnt able to grant access to BIB as Ms 
constitution indicated that two people were required to sign for transactions, whereas the 
application stated Ms G was to have authority to make payments on BIB solely. HSBC 
acknowledged the minutes showed the committee had agreed Ms G could have sole 
authorisation but said it couldnt override Ms constitution. HSBC suggested an amendment 
to the constitution to allow for a sole signatory for BIB.
On 3 August HSBC approved the BIB application on receipt of the amended constitution and 
BIB was reinstated the following day. It was confirmed Ms G had access to BIB from 8 
August 2023.
HSBC didnt uphold Ms complaint. It explained that its terms and conditions say that access 
to BIB will be removed automatically for security purposes if no one has logged on within a 
certain period. It says the delays in re-registering for BIB were caused by governing 
documents not being included initially with the application and that when they were provided 
they werent signed in accordance with the mandate which required two individuals to sign. 
The request was authorised once a revised constitution was received.
Ms G was dis-satisfied with this and on behalf of M referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the Ms Gs concerns and reached the conclusion that 
terms and conditions for BIB allow for access to be removed due to three months inactivity 
and as BIB hadnt been accessed in over 12 months HSBC hadnt done anything wrong in 
removing access.
They thought the delays in reinstating access to BIB were primarily caused by HSBC not 
receiving the correct documentation or not being authorised correctly and didnt think HSBC 
failing to remove a signatory had any bearing on this.
They agreed that communication between HSBC and Ms G was difficult and not always 
clear which caused Ms G some distress and inconvenience. But as Ms G wasnt the eligible 
complainant  M was - they couldnt consider compensation for Ms G being inconvenienced 
personally. And although there were some delays due to the checking of documents by 
different departments  they thought the delays werent unreasonable especially considering 
slower processing times werent unusual during this time due to the pandemic. 
Ms G disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that the Ms G wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. And the crux of 
the complaint is that HSBC revoked BIB access and that the delays in reinstating it were due 
to errors on its behalf and Ms G wants to be compensated for this. 
Ive no doubt Ms G has invested a considerable amount of time in collating evidence and 
trying resolve the administrative issues M has experienced with its banking with HSBC. Our 
investigator has already provided a detailed background of the events surrounding Ms Gs 
complaint and I dont see any use in repeating that here.It might help if I explain that my role is to look at the problems the consumer (in this case 
organisation M) has experienced and see if HSBC has done anything wrong or made a 
mistake. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award compensation that I 
think is fair and reasonable if I consider it warranted.
I understand that Ms BIB has now been reinstated and its banking mandate has been 
updated. So what I need to decide is whether M is due any compensation for the delays 
experienced in having these issues resolved. 
I understand Ms G feels that compensation is warranted given the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered due to the delays in the reinstatement of BIB. But as has 
already been explained by our investigator Ms G is not the complainant here, she is merely 
acting on behalf of M and so it is not in my powers to make an award for any distress and 
inconvenience she feels shes suffered personally  though I do appreciate the difficulties 
shes had.
And having considered everything I dont think HSBC did anything wrong when it removed 
BIB access following a period of inactivity. HSBCs terms and conditions say that a users 
access to BIB can be removed if it isnt used for three months. Its already been established 
that Ms accounts hadnt been accessed for longer than this. 
I appreciate that there was good reason for the inactivity  M wasnt trading due to the 
pandemic and this is unfortunate. But that doesnt mean HSBC shouldnt continue to follow 
the processes it has in place to protect its customers accounts from unauthorised access.
Im also not persuaded the delays in re-instating BIB were unreasonable or solely due to a 
failure of HSBCs. To have BIB reinstated HSBC asked for two things  a copy of Ms 
governing document and confirmation that the committee agreed that Ms G would be the 
primary user having the ability to make payments online. 
But only the minutes were sent in and HSBC only received the constitution on 13 July. 
Following review of this HSBC discovered the constitution required two signatures to 
transact, so HSBC suggested the constitution be amended to cater for Ms request that Ms 
G was able to solely use BIB. I accept at this point there was around a two week delay while 
the documents were reviewed. But this was also partly down to HSBC ensuring that M 
followed its own constitution and I havent seen anything to show me that this two weeks 
caused direct financial loss to Ms business.
Ms G complains that HSBC failed to remove an individual as a signatory on Ms accounts. 
This individual shows to have still been a signatory on the accounts in 2018 long after Ms G 
says HSBC was asked to remove them. Ms G believes that this error contributed to the 
delays and administrative issues experienced in having BIB reinstated. 
I can see that there was a request to have this individual removed as a signatory in October 
2018, but it is not clear to me why this didnt happen. Whether it was again a case of HSBC 
not receiving the correct documentation or authority to have the individual removed, or 
whether there was an error on HSBCs part in processing the request. Whatever the case, I 
accept this issue has been an ongoing problem for M.
But I dont think it matters as things dont always go smoothly. And not every mistake 
warrants compensation. And as I cant see this has had any bearing on the delays experienced in having the BIB reinstated or any evidence that M has suffered financially  
because of the individual remaining on the mandate, Im not persuaded an award of 
compensation is justified or will make a material difference.
So it follows that I do not uphold Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint on behalf of M 
and M against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M and M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman