DRN-4285630
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse him with the money he sent to one
of its customers accounts as the result of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2021 Mr S was looking to make an
investment. He decided to invest with a firm Ill refer to as W who he believed were offering
a six-month fixed term bond paying 4.85% per annum interest. It was suggested that W were
working in collaboration with another regulated firm F. As a result of this, in September
2021 he instructed a payment for €500,000 from his own bank I (which is based outside the
UK) to the account details provided by W. This related to an account held with HSBC in the
UK. The following month Mr S made another payment towards what he believed to be a
similar investment with W (also from his account with I) for another €500,000 to the same
HSBC account. The two payments credited the HSBC account as £423,629.01 on 28
September 2021 and £420,964.06 on 14 October 2021.
Soon after his second payment Mr S grew concerned he may have been scammed. This
was because he didnt receive any confirmations in relation to the payment and Ws website
disappeared. He says he reported this to I and asked them to recall his latest payment. He
also contacted HSBC directly and asked that they return his funds. HSBC said they couldnt
provide a refund and referred Mr S back to I. Mr S later complained to HSBC that it had not
done enough to prevent his loss. One of our Investigators considered the complaint and
ultimately recommended it should be upheld. Subject to our services award limits, he
recommended that HSBC should pay around £820,000 plus 8% simple interest. Mr S
accepted this outcome, but HSBC didnt.
As agreement couldnt be found, the complaint was passed to me to decide. In October 2023 
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to that of our Investigator. So, I
wanted to issue this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment
before finalising my decision.
Im satisfied that HSBC correctly followed its account opening process for the account that
received money from Mr S. The account was opened by an existing HSBC customer with
whom it had a relationship dating back to the mid 1990s. I dont think there was anything at
that stage that would have indicated that the account might later go on to be used in
connection with a fraud or scam. So, I dont think there was a failure by HSBC whilst opening
the account which resulted in Mr S loss.
The account that received the funds was a sterling-based account and the initial €500,000
credited the account as £423,629.01 on 28 September 2021. HSBC have obligations to be
alert to potential fraud, scams and the misappropriation of funds. They are also required to
have systems and controls in place in relation to compliance, financial crime and money
laundering. In particular the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Systems and Controls
Sourcebook (SYSC) includes that A firm must take reasonable care to establish and
maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with the applicable requirements and
standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be used
to further financial crime. (SYSC 3.2.6R).
Further SYSC guidance includes that A firm should ensure that systems and controls
include: (4) appropriate measures to ensure that money laundering risk is taken into
account in its day-to-day operation. (SYSC 3.2.6G).
In its March 2016 paper Financial Crime: a Guide for Firms the FCA set out that A firm
must conduct ongoing monitoring of its business relationships on a risk-sensitive basis.
Ongoing monitoring means scrutinising transactions to ensure that they are consistent with
what the firm knows about the customer, and taking steps to ensure that the firms
knowledge about the business relationship remains current.
Elsewhere the same paper says The material in the Guide does not form part of the
Handbook, but it does contain guidance on Handbook rules and principles Im not
suggesting that its content should be taken as a checklist, but it includes examples and
suggestions of good industry practice (something Im entitled to take into account) and
remains a valid consideration for this complaint.
HSBC say from a legal perspective they owe no duty of care to a third party (like Mr S) with
whom they have no contractual relationship. Therefore they do not have to protect them from
the risks of fraud. I take on board the point HSBC makes, but whilst I must take the law into
consideration, my role as an Ombudsman is to ultimately decide a complaint based on what
I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And despite the lack of a contractual
relationship with or a legal duty of care to Mr S, if HSBC has failed against its regulatory
obligations and that can reasonably be said to have caused the loss to Mr S, I think it is fair
and reasonable to direct that that loss be reimbursed.
Im aware that HSBC have highlighted the timescales set out in the Payment Services
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Specifically, that payments received need to be credited to an
account promptly. It is often the case that there are competing demands or obligations in
cases of fraud or scams. HSBC is correct to say that it is expected to follow instructions
provided by its customers and to promptly make available funds paid into an account (in line
with the PSRs). But there are also obligations to prevent fraud, scams, and the
misappropriation of funds. And it is the friction between such competing obligations where
the crux of the matter is found.
The obligations to process payments that HSBC have described are not absolute. And I
dont agree that the existing regulatory or legal position prevents HSBC from taking action to
prevent money from being paid away from an account in certain circumstances. This would
include where HSBC have grounds to suspect that paying away funds would be furthering
financial crime.
This is reflected in HSBCs own account terms. Section 18 of which refers to when HSBC
may not be able to make a payment and includes:
if we reasonably consider doing so may involve us or you breaking a law, regulation,
court order, code or other duty, requirement or obligation that applies to you, us or another
HSBC Group Company[or] someone else may have a claim over the money.The SYSC guidance Ive referenced above is about systems and processes for the
monitoring of accounts. But that monitoring has a purpose, and that is to be alert to and to
react to various risks including AML concerns as well as fraud, scams and the
misappropriation of funds.
I think its broadly accepted that large payments present an increased risk of money
laundering. And in the circumstances here, HSBC had been told by its customer that they
anticipated receiving around £1,000,000 yearly in the account with around £250,000 of this
coming from outside the UK. The incoming payment from Mr S represented almost 50% of
the total expected annual amount in a single transaction. And was significantly more than
what was expected for international payments. It is also a very significant amount of money,
the like of which hadnt been received in the account previously.
It isnt the case here where the receipt of such sums (or anything approaching that amount)
was regular or commonplace for the account. For clarity, Im not suggesting HSBC ought to
hold every payment of that value. But in the circumstances of this complaint and the
particular account in question, the arrival of Mr S money represented a risk. And I think
HSBC were entitled to hold that payment whilst they looked more closely.
So whilst the initial concern would have been due to potential AML concerns, I think it would
then have become apparent that the accountholder may not have been the intended
beneficiary of the payment  which then ought to have engaged HSBCs fraud measures.
I say this because the evidence Mr S has provided suggests that he was the intended
beneficiary named on the payment instruction. The details for where to send the payment
provided by the scammer included that Mr S should use his own name as the recipient. I
think its most likely there was a mismatch between the beneficiary information provided with
the payment instruction and the named recipient accountholder. This ought to have been an
immediate red flag. An incoming payment with a beneficiary name mismatch is something
commonly seen with the movement of the proceeds of a fraud or scam.
Beyond this, other payments received around the same time into the same account, were
also later reported as having been made as a result of fraud. These include but arent limited
to over £80,000 on 28 September 2021 and over £33,500 on 4 October 2021. On balance,
given its likely these were as a result of the same or a similar type of scam, I think its more
likely than not that there would have similarly been mismatches between the named
beneficiary on the payment instruction and the recipient accountholder. This would have
added to the overall picture that something was likely amiss with this account.
I think HSBC ought to have asked to see evidence that its customer was the intended
beneficiary of the incoming €500,000 payment and be satisfied of this, before releasing any
of those funds.
There is evidence to show that HSBC later had cause to contact its customer about another
incoming payment. And at that time, it wasnt satisfied with the explanation the customer
gave regarding entitlement to the funds. I acknowledge that this was a sophisticated
international scam. And Ive considered HSBCs point that the information it had to suggest
impropriety by its accountholder was stronger at the point those conversations took place.
But given I cant know with 100% certainty what the accountholder would have said if
challenged about Mr S first incoming payment, I have to make a finding on the balance of
probability. And I think the best evidence I have of what likely would have happened, is what
did happen when the other payment was questioned.
The accountholder tried to provide an explanation and evidence, which didnt fit in with what
HSBC knew about its customer and wasnt accepted. And overall, I think the same would
have happened, just at an earlier point. This is particularly the case as the account continuedto receive significant payments soon after Mr S first one, which as Ive mentioned above,
most likely had beneficiary name mismatches.
HSBC have suggested that it likely would have contacted I who in turn would have spoken to
Mr S. And its likely that due to the sophistication of the scam, and how taken in hed been
he may well have confirmed the payment to have been genuine. Ive considered this, but I
think its most likely that had I asked Mr S about either of his payments he would have
truthfully reported what he believed to be the case at the time. Specifically that these were
payments to invest in bonds with a regulated firm. And when that would have been reported
back to HSBC, it would have given further strong evidence to support the case that their
accountholder was involved in a fraud or scam. I say this as providing investments didnt
match what HSBC knew about their customer from the information taken at account
opening.
Had the account been frozen following the first payment (as Im intending to conclude it
should have been), I think all of Mr S first payment would have remained available for
recovery. It follows that the second payment would then also have arrived into a blocked
account and would have similarly been recoverable or would have not been credited and
bounced back to the sender. So, but for HSBCs inaction, all of Mr S loss likely would have
been prevented.
Its clear Mr S was looking to invest the funds he lost to the scam, but its difficult to say
exactly what he would have gone on to invest in, had his money been recovered. In line with
our usual approach to situations like this, I also think 8% simple interest (yearly) should be
added to my proposed award. Ill deal with the exact details of this below.
However, HSBC have suggested that Mr S should bear some responsibility for his loss due
to contributory negligence. They have also questioned whether I did all they should when
Mr S instructed his payments. I have no jurisdiction to comment on the actions of I. And Ive
seen evidence from Mr S local Ombudsman scheme which indicates no action was taken
against them. So Im satisfied Mr S has an outstanding loss of the full amount he sent. But in
the circumstances here, Im minded to agree with HSBC about contributory negligence.
Mr S testimony is that he didnt regularly instruct payments of the value of those relevant to
this complaint  and this is supported by the statements of his account with I that hes
provided. I also dont think its unreasonable to expect more of a consumer when they are
making payments of such a significant value. I think any reasonable person would be very
cautious when sending €500,000 from an account.
In an email to our service in May 2023 Mr S said that he checked the reference number of F
(a partner of W) which was authorised with the FCA. However, the FCA website includes a
warning about the fact that F was being impersonated by scammers. This is prominently 
displayed when you search for F on their website and it was first published in July 2020, long
before Mr S instructed the first payment. The FCA website also links to information on how
to protect yourself from a cloned investment firm scam including contacting the firm directly
using information from the FCAs register. Beyond this, there was also a broadly similar
warning about W on the FCAs website which was first published in August 2021. Again, this
is prior to Mr S first payment.
Given Mr S has said he checked the FCA website, I think its most likely he would have seen
at least one of these warnings. But he failed to heed the advice on the website or to take
further steps to mitigate the risks that the payments he was about to instruct might be as a
result of a scam. In doing so, I think he too was partially responsible for his loss. As such, I
intend to make a reduction in my proposed award of 50% to fairly reflect this.I then went on to explain the award and recommendation I intended to make in my final 
decision. This included the addition of 8% simple interest to the sums awarded / 
recommended. 
Mr S responded and highlighted some of the checks hed made prior to making his 
payments, but ultimately he said he accepted my provisional decision. HSBC too responded 
and part of that response questioned my intended interest award. As a result of this I asked 
Mr S some further questions and was ultimately persuaded to slightly amend my decision. 
As a result of this I wrote to both parties giving them a further opportunity to comment on the 
change. I said:
Following on from my provisional decision HSBC raised some valid points with regard to the 
proposed interest award. I asked Mr S some further questions. He explained that but for the 
scam he likely would have continued to invest in secure fixed time deposits. As such, Im no 
longer persuaded that 8% simple is an appropriate interest award. 
The scam investments were for a fixed term with a guaranteed return. And that in 
combination with Mr S stated intentions lead me to conclude that he wouldnt have wanted 
to put his funds into investments with any meaningful level of risk. And in these 
circumstances, I think it is appropriate to look to the rates published by the Bank of England 
showing the average return from one-year fixed rate bonds. These are the average rates 
that banks and building societies are advertising for fixed term, fixed rate deposit accounts. 
Im not saying this is exactly how Mr S would have invested his money, but it represents the 
sort of return he would have achieved with no/little risk to his money. Details of the rates 
available each month for the relevant years can be found on this link. 
For clarity, my proposed award / recommendation is now:
Putting Things Right
Decision and award: The total of the two payments received from Mr S in the HSBC
account is £844,593.07. I think fair compensation is half this amount, £422,296.53, taking
into account a reduction for contributory negligence. I also think that fair compensation would
be this amount being paid in such a way that Mr S receives an equivalent amount of Euros,
using the exchange rate at the time, had the £422,296.53 been returned on 18 November
2021. This is to reflect that its most likely the return of funds would have taken a few weeks
to arrange between the banks. I appreciate this isnt precise, but I believe this provides a
practical and fair and reasonable approach, given its impossible to know with certainty the
exact point at which the funds would have been returned.
My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr S £355,000. With regard to interest,
HSBC should calculate the return Mr S would have received had he invested £355,000 on 
18 November 2021 for 12 months using the rate available from the Bank of Englands 
average return from one-year fixed rate bonds at that time. This interest should be 
compounded and calculated again each year between the 18 November 2021 and the date 
of settlement, using the applicable interest rate for each further 12 month investment. 
Recommendation: I think that fair compensation is more than £355,000, so I recommend
that HSBC UK Bank Plc pays Mr S the balance. I would recommend this is paid in such a
way that Mr S receives an equivalent amount in Euros, taking into account the exchange
rate at the time, had the funds been returned on 18 November 2021. I also recommend that
interest be added to the balance (above our award limit) to be calculated in the same way 
Ive set out above in my award between 18 November 2021 and the date of settlement. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnthave to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr S can accept my decision and go to court
to ask for the balance. Mr S may wish to seek independent legal advice before deciding
whether to accept my final decision.
HSBC responded and said they had nothing further to add in relation to my amended 
redress. Mr S responded and disagreed with the amendment to the interest award. As both 
parties have now had a further opportunity to comment I can go ahead with my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBCs response to my provisional decision said they still disagreed but had no further 
comments to add beyond those Ive addressed above about interest. Mr S accepted my 
provisional decision and said that he didnt notice any warnings on the FCA website when 
conducting his checks prior to making the payments. But for the reasons Ive already 
explained, I think its more likely than not that he would have seen the warnings at the time 
and Im not persuaded to deviate from the core outcome explained in my provisional 
decision. 
Mr S also made further comments that he thinks 8% interest should still be applied, pointing 
out that this is commonly the interest rate used in court and arbitration. He says that he 
wouldnt have reinvested the full amount into fixed rate bonds and that he likely would have 
diversified this between ETFs for the long term and daily money in the short term. Ive 
considered this, but when I previously asked Mr S what he likely would have done, he 
replied that Probably we would have invested it again for a limited period (secure fixed time 
deposit). I accept what Mr S says about this being a hypothetical situation. And I cant know 
with absolute certainty what he would have done. In these circumstances I must make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities, that being what I think is most likely, taking account 
of the available evidence and arguments. So whilst I can understand why Mr S is now saying 
something different, Im more persuaded by the answer he initially gave. And for the reasons 
Ive explained, I maintain that the interest award as set out above is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK 
Bank Plc must take the steps outlined at Putting things Right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman