DRN-1664091
The complaint
Mr N and Mr N complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc refused to refund payments made into 
their account in error. 
What happened
Mr N says in April 2019 one of his customers made four payments into his account in error. 
He says he asked HSBC, via his solicitor, to refund the payments, but his account was 
closed, and HSBC refused to refund the money. Mr N says the account was overdrawn and 
HSBC used his customers money to pay off part of the overdraft. He also says his solicitor 
was told by HSBC that a cheque for the money would be sent out.
HSBC says its not made a mistake and didnt say a cheque would be sent out. It says it 
would be for Mr Ns customer or its bank to request that the money be returned if an error 
was made. HSBC says Mr Ns account was overdrawn and there wasnt an overdraft facility 
in place and correctly closed the account.
Mr N brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it would be for Mr Ns customer or its bank to request a refund of the money and 
there wasnt a record of such a request. The investigator didnt think it mattered what Mr Ns 
solicitor was told about the cheque and if he was given incorrect information.
Mr N doesnt accept that view and says it cant be correct for HSBC to use his customers 
money paid in error to reduce his overdraft.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that if Mr Ns customer made a mistake by paying him the money then it would 
be for that customer to make a request via its bank to return the money. I think that if Mr N is 
correct, that a mistake was made, then the only way in which the money could be returned 
would be for that customer to make such a request. I cant see any evidence on HSBCs 
records that such a request was made either by the customer or its bank and I dont think Mr 
N has provided any evidence himself about the mistake or evidence from his customer that it 
was requesting that the money be returned.
I can see that Mr Ns account was overdrawn and so I dont think HSBC made a mistake or 
acted unfairly by using the money to repay some of the overdraft balance and later closing 
the account.
I dont think it matters what Mr Ns solicitor was told by HSBC about a cheque being sent as I 
think HSBC had made its position clear. I can see HSBC says it has listened to the relevant 
call and says it didnt say a cheque would be sent out. I would have liked to have listened to 
that call. But I think it unlikely in these circumstances that HSBC would have said a cheque 
would be sent as I think it unlikely it could have done so without a request from Mr Ns 
customer and evidence that customer made a genuine mistake. 
Overall, I find HSBC has dealt fairly with this complaint and hasnt made a mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman