DRN-4009520
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on their 
behalf that they were mis-sold a joint life, second death, whole of life policy (the policy) 
alongside their mortgage by The Mortgage Finance Store Ltd, referred to as the business. 
In short, the CMC says that Mr and Mrs M shouldve been recommended a joint-life, first 
death (level) term assurance policy that met the term and amount of their outstanding 
mortgage. 
To put things right, the CMC says the business should refund the premiums paid, along with 
8% simple interest.     
What happened
In 2019, Mr and Mrs M were advised to take out the policy with a third-party provider  at a 
cost of £136 a month for a £95,000 sum assured.   
In July 2021, Mr and Mrs M cancelled the policy because they didnt think the policy met 
their needs. 
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In short it said:
The recommendation for life cover was suitable. 
The sum assured was agreed between Mr and Mrs M and the adviser. Although it 
wasnt for the full mortgage amount, the amount was agreed due to cost/affordability. 
The policy was put in trust, and thats why it was arranged on a second death basis. 
Mr and Mrs M were high up in their careers and putting the policy in trust shows they 
understood what was going on. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld and 
redress paid. In summary, she made the following key observations: 
The fact find shows that Mr and Mrs M sought advice from the business in relation to 
a mortgage, and protection needs. It was recorded that they required £135,000 worth 
of life cover to repay the mortgage in case either of them died.   
The business initially recommended that Mr and Mrs M take out the policy with a 
£135,000 sum assured, on a second death basis. But due to affordability issues, Mr 
and Mrs M decided to take out the plan with a lower sum assured on a second death 
basis.  
But the recommendation on a second death basis, didnt meet Mr and Mrs Ms 
recorded objective to pay off the mortgage if either of them died. The sum assured 
was also insufficient, even though Mr and Mrs M couldnt afford to pay for what was 
needed. 
Shes seen nothing to suggest that the business looked at affordable alternatives, 
which wouldve allowed them to take out the cover they still needed.  
Despite what the business says  about Mr and Mrs Ms objectives being the starting 
point rather than what they wanted  shes seen nothing to suggest that they needed 
cover over and beyond the term of the mortgage. 
In terms of redress, the business should do the following:
oObtain quotes for a joint life, first death term assurance policy on level term, 
with a sum assured of £135,000 and a term of nine years. It should use Mr 
and Mrs Ms (name anonymised) ages and personal details as at the time of 
advice.
oRefund each premium paid for the whole-of-life policy less the premium for a 
term assurance policy as above.
oAdd 8% simple interest per annum from the date each premium was paid to 
the date of settlement.
oMr and Mrs M may need cover for the remainder of their mortgage term. And 
this may be more expensive than a term policy would have been at the time 
of advice due to changes to their age and health. If this is the case, TMFSL 
should fund the difference in premiums for the remaining term.
The business disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. It made a number of key points which the investigator considered in due course, 
but having done so, she wasnt persuaded to change her mind. In summary, she made the 
following key observations:
The business explained that mortgage advice was given to raise funds to gift to Mr 
and Mrs Ms children. Initially an equity release product was recommended, but Mr 
and Mrs M were advised against this in favour of the interest only mortgage, as this 
was likely to save them money over nine years. The plan was to switch to a lifetime 
interest-only mortgage at the end of the nine-year term. 
But, despite what the business says, the fact find dated 16 December 2019 states 
that the repayment vehicle for the mortgage would be tax free cash from three of Mr 
and Mrs Ms pensions, or the sale of the property. She couldnt see any mention of 
plans to convert the mortgage to a lifetime mortgage. 
The fact find also recorded that Mr and Mrs M needed cover in the event of their 
death, to cover the outstanding mortgage, effectively on a first death basis. Whilst it 
says that a whole of life policy is required, theres no evidence that alternatives  
such as a term assurance  were discussed. This was all the more important, given 
Mr and Mrs M partially accepted the recommendation, leaving them with a shortfall of 
£45,000. 
A level term assurance policy with a nine-year term wouldve allowed Mr and Mrs M 
to take out cover for the full amount (and term), within their allocated budget.  
As the evidence from the point of sale suggests, Mr and Mrs M were planning on 
redeeming the mortgage at the end of the term the recommendation to take out a 
whole of life policy is unsuitable. 
The business disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In short, it made the following key 
points:
The investigators view is completely flawed, as shes linking the policy to the 
mortgage  the policy had nothing to do with the mortgage. It was for inheritance 
planning and placed in trust for the children. 
A complaint about mortgage advice has already been dealt with, so shouldnt be 
used as a backdrop to this complaint  instead, common sense should prevail. 
The CMCs arent qualified to give financial advice, so how can it make a complaint 
criticising the businesss advice. It means CMCs are giving advice  its ridiculous 
how they operate. Its evident that the first CMC forged Mr and Mrs Ms signatures. The adviser knows 
CMCs that swap cases until our service upholds the complaint. The FOS need to 
push back on some of these CMCs and get robust hold on the regulation around 
these charlatans. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, Im not 
persuaded that the recommendation  to take out a joint-life, second death whole of life 
policy that didnt match the term and amount of the mortgage  was suitable. 
In terms of redress, I think the recommendation by the investigator is broadly fair and 
reasonable. Despite other options, in this instance I dont think its fair or reasonable to ask 
the business to refund the premiums, because Mr and Mr M still wanted to protect their 
mortgage.       
The above notwithstanding, Im not considering whether or not the mortgage was suitable. I 
understand that a complaint in relation to that issue has already been dealt with, but not 
upheld. 
I think its important for me to note that I recognise Mr and Mrs Ms, and the businesss, 
strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve provided detailed submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the CMC - on their behalf - and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
It seems that life cover wasnt a condition of the borrowing and therefore Mr and Mrs M were 
under no obligation to take out the policy in respect of their mortgage. Despite what they say 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that life cover was a condition of their mortgage. However, on 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, it seems they 
wanted to take out protection in respect of their mortgage. 
But having identified a mortgage protection need, its not clear why Mr and Mrs M were then 
recommended a second death whole of life policy, that didnt match the term or amount of 
their mortgage. Despite what the business says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that they 
wanted a policy that went beyond the mortgage term, or that they wanted/needed general 
life insurance for inheritance tax purposes. This might explain why, only two years into the 
policy, Mr and Mrs M cancelled it  on balance Im satisfied that this was probably because 
they realised the policy wasnt what they wanted. In the circumstances, I think its unlikely that they wouldve cancelled the policy had it been taken out for IHT purposes and/or part of 
some long-term vision.    
Im conscious the business says that the recommendation was cost led, and that Mr and Mrs 
M were aware of the shortfall, but I dont think that generally makes an unsuitable 
recommendation suitable. Ive seen nothing to suggest that more affordable alternatives 
were discussed and/or that Mr and Mrs M fully understood the implications of taking out a 
policy, on a second death basis, that didnt cover the outstanding mortgage amount if one of 
them died. Ive seen nothing to suggest that they insisted on having life cover, even if it 
didnt meet the mortgage term and amount.   
I cant dismiss the fact that not only was the sum assured short by around £45,000, which 
isnt an insignificant amount, the policy was also designed to only pay out on second death, 
which on balance (despite the apparent cost saving) defeated the point of policy  namely 
mortgage protection.   
I appreciate the policy was placed in trust for the benefit of Mr and Mrs Ms three children, 
but that wasnt immediately useful to the surviving policyholder, and/or for the purposes of 
paying off the mortgage so as to make life easier for the surviving spouse. So, on balance, 
despite what the business says about their objectives being the starting point Im satisfied 
that the recommendation, even with the sum assured put aside, didnt meet Mr and Mrs Ms 
recorded objective for protection, regardless of whether (or not) they were vulnerable. Im 
mindful the CMC says that that they were, but the business disagrees.   
I note the CMC says that Mr and Mrs M had previous cover in place at the time, although the 
business says it wasnt provided with any details, and Ive not seen any either. In any case, 
the business was made aware that Mr and Mrs M had existing policies in place, and 
therefore it was unlikely that they needed additional life insurance as such. In my opinion, 
and on balance, this was all the more reason why the policy taken out for the purposes of 
mortgage protection shouldve met their objective. 
 
Im mindful of the points made by Mr and Mrs M about employee benefits. It is the case that 
those employee benefits would only have been available whilst Mr and Mrs M remained in 
that particular employment. And even if they stayed in that employment, there was no 
guarantee that the benefits wouldnt be withdrawn or changed in future by their employers. 
So, despite what the CMC says, thats not a reason not to recommend life cover, or uphold 
the complaint, and certainly not a reason to refund all premiums with interest.  
A policy that matched the term and amount of the mortgage would continue to provide cover 
as long as the premiums were paid. Despite what CMC says, on balance, Im not persuaded 
that death in service benefit was an adequate replacement for life cover in respect of a 
mortgage either.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the business should pay the following redress:
1. Compare the cost (specifically comparing the total cost of the premiums) of a 
competitively priced level term assurance policy  with a £135,000 sum assured and 
for a term of nine years taking into account Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time 
 with the cost of the whole of life policy taken out between 2019 to 2021. If theres a 
negative difference, pay the loss with 8% simple interest.   
2. I note Mr and Mrs M cancelled the policy in 2021. But if they provide evidence to the 
business that theyve taken out replacement cover for the remaining term, which 
exceeds the cost of the policy they shouldve been recommended, the business 
should pay the difference paid by Mr and Mrs M to date together with simple interest at 8% from the date of each payment until settlement. 
3. The business should also undertake to cover the difference going forwards for as 
long as the cover is in place. The business can do so either by way of an annuity or 
paying on a monthly basis if this is relevant. 
Putting things right
To put things right, The Mortgage Finance Store Ltd should do the following:
1. Compare the cost (specifically comparing the total cost of the premiums) of a 
competitively priced level term assurance policy  with a £135,000 sum assured and 
for a term of nine years taking into account Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time 
 with the cost of the whole of life policy taken out between 2019 to 2021. If theres a 
negative difference, pay the loss with 8% simple interest.   
2. I note Mr and Mrs M cancelled the policy in 2021. But if they provide evidence to the 
business that theyve taken out replacement cover for the remaining term, which 
exceeds the cost of the policy they shouldve been recommended, the business 
should pay the difference paid by Mr and Mrs M to date together with simple interest 
at 8% from the date of each payment until settlement. 
3. The business should also undertake to cover the difference going forwards for as 
long as the cover is in place. The business can do so either by way of an annuity or 
paying on a monthly basis if this is relevant. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
The Mortgage Finance Store Ltd should work out and pay Mr and Mrs M compensation as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman