DRN-2725946
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Ltd declined a fire claim under a block buildings 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L owned a home in a retirement complex. His mother had lived there until her death in 
2017. He said since then hed been trying to sell the property which had been empty.
In 2019 a fire destroyed the house. Avivas forensic expert found that the fire had probably 
been caused by an electrical fault.
Aviva declined the claim. It said the electricity should have been turned off at the mains 
while the property was empty. 
Mr L disputed this. He thought under the policy terms he only had to turn off all switches and 
unplug all electrical items which hed done.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why 
I was minded not to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
In considering whether an insurer has acted fairly, first of all I look at whether the relevant 
policy wording is clear and has been sufficiently drawn to the consumers attention. 
In the relevant policy year the policy said that if the property was unoccupied for more than 
60 days, the following condition applied:
All sources of power, fuel or water are turned off and the water system is drained down.
I need to decide whether this was sufficiently clear to make Mr L aware that he needed to 
switch the power off at the main consumer unit as opposed to switching off lights and 
individual plug sockets.
Mr L had arranged for the water to be turned off and the system drained down. The property 
didnt have gas. He said he unplugged electrical items in the property and turned switches 
off at the wall. He thought he had to leave the electricity on at the mains to enable the estate 
agent to switch the lights on when showing people around the property. He said he didnt 
want estate agent staff poking around in cupboards to turn a main switch on and off, with 
the risk that they would in fact flick the wrong switch and leave something on 
unintentionally.
Looking at the language of the clause as a whole I note that it refers to turning off sources of 
power, fuel and water. The ordinary, everyday meaning of source is the origin of 
something. In terms of electricity I think the mains connection where electricity reaches the 
house is the source for all further supply of electric current in the house. Mr L interpreted the 
reference to turning off water to refer to the use of valves or stopcocks as opposed to, say, 
ensuring that taps were turned off. Using the same reasoning I think its fair to interpret the 
clause to mean that in the case of electricity Aviva intended that the power should be cut off 
at the mains being the source rather than at downstream switches or plugs.
Mr L has pointed out that in 2015 the relevant condition was worded differently. It said: 
The gas supply, and if no intruder alarm installed, the electricity supply should each be 
turned off at the main.
He felt that wording was clearer. But the property wasnt unoccupied at that point. So I cant 
see that there would be reason for Mr L to pay any attention to this part of the policy before 
2017. To my mind the significant difference is that after 2016 under no circumstances should 
there be any source of electrical power to the house even if there were an intruder alarm. 
The fact that the wording changed in 2016 and no longer specifically referred to the 
electricity supply being turned off at the main doesnt mean that the later wording was 
unclear.
Mr Ls property was in a retirement village. The manager of the site wrote to Mr L in 
November 2018 reminding him of the above condition and asking him to confirm that hed 
complied. Mr L confirmed that he had complied. This shows that the relevant condition was 
brought to Mr Ls attention. The manager said that her understanding of the wording was 
that the electricity needed to be switched off at the main consumer unit in the house. 
Avivas forensic investigator thought that, given the lack of probable alternative causes, it 
was likely the fire had started due to an electrical fault either in the fixed wiring or an 
appliance that was energised in the en-suite bathroom. I havent seen anything to disprove 
that opinion.
Whilst I have every sympathy for the situation Mr L finds himself in, I think it can fairly be 
said that in order to comply with the policy terms he should have switched the electricity off 
at the mains. If he had done so, I think its likely the property wouldnt have burnt down. So 
I think Aviva acted fairly in declining the claim because Mr L was in breach of this condition.
In summary Mr L made the following points in response to the provisional decision:
He didnt dispute that the fire had probably been caused by an electrical fault.
He thought the comparison with turning the water off at the stopcock was misguided 
because the policy wording referred to turning the water off and draining the system 
down.
Instead of leaving the policyholder to interpret the wording as meaning that the electricity 
should be switched off at the main consumer unit, Aviva should have clearly said so.
He did pay attention to the unoccupancy clause before 2017 because it was in a simple 
two page summary of the insurance cover which hed received from his broker and 
always read through. In addition due to the nature of his work hes used to reading and 
understanding financial services documentation.
The site managers understanding of the policy wording is irrelevant since she didnt 
clarify it to Mr L.
He referred to the legal doctrine (the contra proferentem rule) that any clause 
considered to be ambiguous should be interpreted against the interests of the party that 
wrote it.
He asked me to consider awarding him a percentage of the sum sought.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that in order to comply with the policy the water supply would have to be drained 
down as well as turned off at the stopcock. But I was looking at what turning off at the 
source meant in this context. For water I thought it meant turning off at the stopcock and the 
equivalent for electricity would be turning the power off at the main consumer unit.
I agree that the wording could have been clearer  it could, for example, have specifically 
referred to switching the electricity off at the mains. But, as explained in my provisional 
findings, I dont think that necessarily means the relevant policy wording was insufficiently 
clear such that an ordinary policyholder couldnt be expected to interpret it correctly. 
In my view most policyholders wouldnt pay particular attention to the wording of the 
unoccupancy clause if the property was actually occupied at the time because that provision 
wouldnt be relevant. But I accept that Mr L did read and pay attention to it. Having done so, 
its very unfortunate he thought the revised wording meant the electricity supply no longer 
needed to be turned off after 2017 when the property was unoccupied. If anything, insurers 
are more likely to tighten up policy requirements than to relax them.
I dont think the site manager would have bothered to ask owners of empty properties to 
confirm that theyd left all electrical appliances switched off since thats something theyd 
probably do anyway. Her understanding is relevant in so far as Mr L could have asked her to 
clarify whether he needed to take the further step of switching the electrical supply off at the 
mains. 
Having considered the policy wording carefully, I dont consider the clause is so 
unambiguous that it falls foul of the contra proferentem rule. It states that all sources of 
power should be turned off. I consider a reasonable person would understand the meaning 
of this clause as a requirement to turn the electricity supply off at the mains. It follows, 
therefore, that I consider Mr L was in breach of this condition. I think that probably directly 
led to the fire. So I find that Aviva didnt treat Mr L unfairly in relying on the breach of this 
condition to decline the claim. This being the case, Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but I see no 
reason to require Aviva to settle part of his claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman