DRN-3021152
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited hasnt upheld his complaint, 
following a claim he made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) for 
some mis-sold solar panels.  
What happened
The parties are familiar with the background, so I dont intend to repeat it in detail here. But 
in summary, Mr N says he was mis-sold solar panels for two premises, one of which was his 
home and the other his business. Both sets of panels were sold by the same salesman who 
worked for a solar panel supplier (the Supplier). Omni financed both loans under two 
separate credit agreements, each for over £8,000 plus interest over a 7-year term.
Mr N says that the salesman told him the panels would be self-funding at both premises. 
That means theyd pay for themselves out of the income produced from government feed-in-
tariff (FIT) payments, electricity export revenue and savings on electricity. On top of this, Mr 
N was told hed make a profit too. So, the panels shouldnt have cost him anything.
Mr N has provided extensive evidence about what he was told and why he would never have 
taken these panels if the salesman hadnt said they wouldnt cost him anything. Hes also 
provided evidence of an email from the salesman with a very high monthly return rate, which 
conflicts significantly with the Suppliers quote documentation.
Our investigator thought Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that the sales 
quotations didnt clearly compare the cost of the loans with the cost of the finance. Given the 
misleading representations that the salesman more likely than not made, she recommended 
that the loans be recalculated to make the panels self-funding and that Mr N be given a 
number of options as to how any overpayments hed made should be used.
Omni didnt agree with our investigators recommendations. It thought that the 
documentation was clear, and that Mr N should have read that carefully and not relied on 
anything contradictory that hed been told by the salesman. If hed been concerned, then it 
thought that he should have contacted the Supplier direct to discuss.
Mr N also wasnt happy with the recommendations. He still considered that the panels were 
always unaffordable, and he should never have been given the loans in the first place. He 
would like all the payments hes made to date refunded, 8% interest paid, and the panels 
removed  although hes said hed be prepared for the panels to remain as a compromise.
As the parties didnt agree, the matter has come to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N may be disappointed to hear that Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator, 
and for substantially similar reasons. Ill explain why below.
I was very sorry to hear about Mr Ns experience with the sale of these solar panels. Given 
the subsequent pandemic, and finances being stretched for a lot of people, the need to 
make these payments cannot have been easy for him. Mr N is represented by his son, 
whom I am aware has been making the loan payments for his father. I should like to assure 
him that Ive considered very carefully everything that hes said. And just because I dont 
mention something that he considers important, he shouldnt assume I havent thought about 
it. What I must focus on here though are the main considerations that I feel are relevant to 
my decision.
Ill firstly say that Im very surprised about the position taken by Omni, and the Supplier, in 
this case. This complaint is one of a number that have been brought about sales conducted 
by this salesman. And Ive seen evidence from quite a few customers saying very similar 
things about what they were told. The salesman concerned has clearly had a chequered 
history, having allegedly been convicted of fraud abroad before coming to the UK.
The salesman also seems to have been working for another solar panel supplier at the same 
time as he was employed by the Supplier. Ive seen a quote from that other company to Mr 
Ns company which has equally outrageous claims about the savings that may be made from 
these panels.
Theres an email in the evidence from the salesman to Mr N which indicates he will receive 
an income of over £250 a month from the panels. This came from a personal email address 
for the salesman. The Supplier has said that the returns are clearly absurd and are in stark 
conflict with their solar quotation. The Supplier says that Mr N should have taken this up with 
it, although I cant see why he would have thought to do that, as it was the Suppliers 
representative that had said it to him. The personal email address is also the same one that 
appears on the Suppliers quotation, so that wouldnt have rung any alarm bells for Mr N 
either.
All the evidence clearly points to Mr N being mis-sold these solar panels. And its my finding 
that the salesman more likely than not mis-represented the benefits of the panels to Mr N, 
like he appears to have done to a number of other customers in Mr Ns locality as well. If 
Omni has other complaints with which it is dealing that involve the Supplier and this 
salesman, I will expect it take note of this decision in reaching an outcome on those as well.
There were two properties involved here, one Mr Ns home and the other his business 
premises. Ordinarily, I wouldnt expect to see solar panels being sold for business premises 
with reference to FIT payments, etc. Thats because theyre not eligible for the same 
government renewable energy schemes as consumers. But here, the loan for the business 
premises appears to have been granted to Mr N in his personal capacity.
Mr N says he was told that hed get the same benefits as he would for his home. But that 
was clearly incorrect. And probably explains why the alternative companys solar quote that 
Mr Ns business received was never progressed by the salesman. Instead, the Supplier and 
Omni treated the business premises as a personal loan. So, unsurprisingly, Mr N has never 
been able to register the business premises for FIT payments or export tariffs.
I realise that Mr N says hes also had no benefit from electricity savings either, although I 
cant see how that would be the case if the panels are supplying electricity to those 
premises, with any generation not used going to the grid. When carrying out my award in this 
complaint, I expect Omni to look into whether or not Mr N, or his company, has had any 
benefit at all from the solar panels fitted at the business premises. It should also use the 
actual and estimated generation and electricity use information that may be available for 
both premises when calculating the benefits Mr N may receive over the term of the loans.Section 75 of the Act makes Omni equally responsible with the Supplier for any 
misrepresentations. And Section 56 of the Act deems any representations made by the 
salesman to be those of Omni and the Supplier. So here I consider that Omni must take 
responsibility for those misrepresentations. Ive thought about the fact that one of the 
premises was commercial. Although these werent commercial loans and were made to Mr N 
in his personal capacity. So, Ive concluded that Section 75 applies to both loans. Ive set out 
below what I think Omni now needs to do to put things right.
Putting things right
As Ive made a finding that the panels were mis-sold at both premises, I need to decide what 
I think would be fair and reasonable compensation. Our investigator set out our approach to 
compensation in her view, so I wont repeat that all here.  Mr N thinks that the loans were 
never affordable. So, he should be repaid everything that he has paid to date. There is no 
need for me to look at affordability in detail here as Ive found that the panels were mis-sold. 
The appropriate remedy for a mis-sale is similar to, or better than, if I were to find that the 
loans werent affordable, where wed normally ask the lender to write off any interest and 
charges, with the borrower remaining responsible for the principal amounts lent.
Mr N would like the loans written off in full. But I dont think thats a fair and reasonable 
outcome here. Theres no indication that the panels arent performing as they were expected 
to, its just that the benefits of them were overly inflated by the salesman. So, there should 
still be quite a lot of benefit to be had from the panels for the rest of their useable life  
subject of course to those on the commercial premises not getting any government 
subsidies.
Mr Ns son has said that his father would never have bought the panels or taken out the 
loans if they were to cost him anything. But I do think it was clear that there was a loan here 
and the repayments were clearly set out for Mr N. What Mr N expected to receive were 
much greater savings on his electricity and income from FIT and export payments than he 
got. So, hed always have had to pay the loans, but would have saved money and got an 
income that would have been sufficient to pay them back.
I know how strongly Mr Ns son feels about this, but I dont think this is a case where I should 
depart from our usual approach of making the panels self-funding. If it gives Mr N any 
comfort, given the business premises are not receiving any FIT or export payments, that will 
mean that they are only benefitting from minimal electricity savings. So that will need to be 
taken into account by Omni in determining the self-funding calculation that I will be requiring 
that it do for both loans.
Mr Ns home will have received a greater benefit, but still nothing like the amount that Mr Ns 
had to pay out on his loan for those premises. So, there will, I expect, be some significant 
overpayments for both loans that Mr N can ask Omni to apply in accordance with the options 
Ive set out below. Ill also be expecting Omni to pay simple interest at our usual rate of 8% 
on those overpayments from the time they were made until they are refunded
Ive also thought about compensation for the trouble and upset that Mr N has experienced. I 
see that Omni has already agreed to pay Mr N £200 for its poor handling of his claim and 
two further small payments of interest for the time it took to consider the claim. I consider this 
to be fair compensation for the trouble and upset that its poor service will have caused Mr N. 
Its also important to remember that it was of course the salesman that caused most of the 
upset for Mr N here, although thats not something that I can hold Omni responsible for 
under this complaint about how it dealt with his Section 75 claim.  
My final decisionIts my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require that Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited:
recalculate Mr Ns loans so he doesnt pay any more than the amount of benefit he 
will receive from the panels over the term of the loans (the self-funding loans);
where hes paid more each month on the original loans than he would have done for 
the self-funding loans, add 8%* simple interest a year to the over-payments from the 
date they were paid until the date that theyre effectively refunded;
Upon Mr N deciding which of the following options he wants to use to benefit from the 
extra hes paid each month on his original loans (and any interest), make the 
necessary arrangements to amend the loans or pay Mr N as appropriate:
a)the overpayments and interest are used to reduce the outstanding balance of 
the loans and he continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the 
loans finishing early,
b)the overpayments and interest are used to reduce the outstanding balance of 
the loans and he pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan terms,
c)the overpayments and interest are returned to Mr N and he continues to make 
his current monthly payment resulting in the loans finishing early, or
d)the overpayments and interest are returned to Mr N and he pays a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan terms; and
pay Mr N the compensation already offered for the trouble and upset caused, if not 
already paid or credited to his accounts.
* Omni may be required by Her Majestys Revenue & Customs to deduct tax from any 
interest paid to Mr N. Should Mr N request it, Omni must provide him with a certificate setting 
out the amount of tax deducted so he can reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman