DRN-3666175
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L have complained that they lost the qualifying status on their insurance policy 
which had tax implications for them.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs L took out a joint life policy in 1987. It was a qualifying plan under the HMRC 
qualifying rules.
Due to a change in legislation, changes were brought in to qualifying plan limits in 2013. In 
the same year Zurich reviewed the policy and sent a declaration for to Mr L and Mrs L for 
them to sign confirming that they accepted the review and to allow the policy to maintain its 
qualifying status. The declaration wasnt received and so the qualifying status was removed.
Subsequently Zurich sent letters wrongly confirming that the policy maintained its qualifying 
status. Accordingly Mr L and Mrs L werent aware that their qualifying status had been lost in 
2013. Zurich acknowledged its error and paid Mr L and Mrs L £600 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld, she felt that the 
compensation offered was fair.
Mr L and Mrs L appealed. Mr L on behalf of Mr and Mrs L said they had signed a returned 
the letter to Zurich in the reply paid envelope. So their complaint is that Zurich did receive 
the declaration and failed to act on it. Further he said that he had needed to ask the HMRC 
to correct the matter. He felt that Zurich should be held to account for their continued 
negligence and incompetence.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties. Im not 
going to respond to every single point made - no discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I think is the key issue here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
It is not in dispute that Mr L and Mrs L lost the qualifying status on their policy in 2013.The 
issue here is whether or not a declaration was received by Mr L and Mrs L in 2013 and 
returned. Mr L and Mrs L have confirmed that they did receive the correspondence in 2013 
and returned the declaration in the pre-paid envelope provided. I find this evidence to be 
persuasive. Nevertheless Zurich say it was not received, and I have no reason to doubt that 
either. 
Clearly Mr L and Mrs L didnt want to pay tax unnecessarily and I can see from the 
documentation sent and from Mr Ls submissions that he had to go to trouble and 
inconvenience to rectify the matter. The HMRC agreed to re-instate the qualifying status on 
the policy and that once informed of this Zurich altered the status of the plan back to 
qualifying. 
 
I fully accept that it would have been distressing to discover that their qualifying status had 
been lost and then frustrating and time consuming to rectify this. The rectification wasnt 
straightforward, and Mr L needed to provide correspondence to the HMRC and wait for a 
response. Im pleased to note that ultimately it was successful, and the status is now 
restored.
Mr L and Mrs L have complained generally about the correspondence from Zurich. They say 
amongst other thing that too that correspondence has been inadequate  no return slips 
included  and confusing, in that the qualifying status was confirmed when Zurich later said it 
didnt apply. Sometimes statements werent received. Zurich has apologised and offered 
compensation totalling £600 for the poor service Mr L and Mrs L received. Having taken into 
account all the circumstances I find that the sum is fair and make no further 
recommendation.
For completeness I would add that I havent disregarded the comments that Mr L has made 
about Zurich and how it operates. But this service doesnt regulate financial businesses 
rather we act as an alternative to the courts to informally resolve individual complaints.
My final decision
Zurich Assurance Ltd has already made an offer and paid £600 in settlement of this 
complaint. 
I find that the compensation was fair and I dont require Zurich to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman