DRN-3340938
Complaint
Miss W has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided her with unaffordable 
loans. 
Background
L2G provided Miss W with loans for £500 in August 2019 and December 2019. These loans 
had an APR of 1,013.2% and an 18-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable 
of £2,057.04, for each loan, was due to be repaid in 18 instalments of £114.28. One of our 
adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G unfairly provided these loans as 
proportionate checks would have shown they were unaffordable. L2G disagreed with our 
adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Ws complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Ws complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Miss W would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss W wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss W would 
be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
L2G provided these loans while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Miss Ws ability to make the repayments under these 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss W. In practice this
meant that L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Miss W undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss W. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss W prior to 
providing her with these loans. It also carried out credit checks. Miss W declared that she 
was earning around £1,300.00 a month for loan 1 and £1,600.00 a month at the time of loan 
2. She also declared that she had expenditure of £490 a month for loan 1 and £330 a month 
for loan 2. L2G checks suggested her income was closer to £1,000.00 (loan 1) and 
£1,300.00 (loan 2) a month and her expenditure between £826 (loan 1) and £1,037.88 (loan 
2) based what it saw on her credit file. This left her with enough to cover the payments to 
these loans. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But L2Gs credit checks clearly show Miss W 
had a history of borrowing further to repay previous loans. Equally, L2G clearly wasnt 
confident in the income and expenditure information Miss W provided such that it adjusted 
the figures. Im particularly mindful that L2G doesnt appear to have been concerned that 
when Miss W approached for loan 2, on what were clearly disadvantageous terms, she did 
so while supposedly earning more and having less in the way of expenditure. And this was despite her credit file showing a deteriorating position. Bearing all of this in mind, I think that 
L2G needed to take steps to verify Miss Ws actual monthly expenditure. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Miss W with her loans were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Miss W
would have been unable to repay these loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before these loans were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Miss W would have 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Miss W could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Miss W was 
borrowing further to repay previous loans. Her income was pretty much being used to meet 
commitments to existing creditors and even then she was failing to meet some of them. I 
think the proportionate checks would have shown L2G that she was likely to use this loan in 
the same way which meant she was unlikely to be able to repay it without borrowing further 
or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss W would not have been able to make the
repayments to these loans without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Miss W was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on these loans without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss W in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss W in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss W in some other way.
Did Miss W lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing her with these loans?
As Miss W paid and is being expected to pay a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of 
what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Miss W
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ws complaint for L2G to put things right by:
refund all interest, fees and charges Miss W paid on her loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Miss W to the date of settlement;removing any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file as a result of 
these loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give  
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ws complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman