DRN-2937980
The complaint
Mr U complains Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. 
(Mapfre) unfairly declined his claim for cancellation of his holiday. 
Mr Us complaint is brought on his behalf by a representative  Miss P. But for ease, I will 
refer to all submissions as having been made by Mr U. 
What happened
Mr U and Miss P had planned to travel abroad on holiday in March 2020. Mr U booked the 
trip in January 2020. However, due to escalating concerns over the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr 
U said he amended the destination country of his trip on 27 February 2020. And he took out 
a travel insurance policy for himself, with Mapfre, on the same day. 
Mr U has said on 3 March 2020, he was advised of a threat to his life by the police. And due 
to this, he thought he would be unsafe to travel abroad. So, he cancelled his holiday, and 
raised a claim with Mapfre. 
After Mapfre assessed the claim, it said no cover was provided under the policy for Mr Us 
cancellation reason. It also said that the policy was bought on the same date that Mr U 
changed the destination of his holiday, so it thought Mr U may have been aware of a reason 
he may have needed to cancel his trip. And it said it hadnt been provided with sufficient 
evidence of the claim. 
Mr U complained to Mapfre. He said he didnt know of any reasons he might need to cancel 
his trip at the time of taking his policy, and he changed his destination only because of 
concerns over Covid-19. He said his cancellation reason is unusual, but he thought Mapfre 
should have contacted the police for verification, or asked him for more information. 
Mapfre responded to Mr Us complaint. It apologised for its earlier suggestion that Mr U may 
have taken out his policy whilst being aware of a possible need to cancel, and said it thought 
this had been unfair. Mapfre said it was willing to re-assess Mr Us claim if he could provide 
further evidence of his reason for cancellation. It said although it understood the 
circumstances of the claim were very sensitive, it needed to see evidence of the claim in 
order to assess it. And it said it would have expected to see a specific document issued by 
the police about the threat to Mr U. 
Mr U brought his complaint to this service, and an investigator here looked into what had 
happened. And she said she didnt think Mapfre had acted unreasonably in requesting 
further evidence of the reasons for cancellation. 
Mapfre didnt make any comments on the investigators view. However, Mr U disagreed and 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said he hadnt been provided with any specific 
documentation by the police, only a general information booklet. And he said its unfair for 
him to be asked to contact the police again, as this would be traumatic for him, and hes 
currently suffering with a mental illness. 
As Mr U disagreed, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Mapfre has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Us complaint. And Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I should clarify Mr U has complained that when has claim was first declined, Mapfre 
said it thought he may have taken his policy in the knowledge that he would need to cancel 
his trip. In its final response to his complaint, Mapfre said it thought it had acted unfairly in 
this regard, and it apologised to Mr U. As this issue no longer seems to be in dispute, I wont 
comment on it further in this decision. 
The terms of Mr Us policy set out the cover provided in the event that a trip needs to be 
cancelled. And it gives a list of specific scenarios in which cancellation will be covered. Mr U 
has said he cancelled his trip due to being advised by the police that there was a threat to 
his life. This isnt one of the cancellation reasons covered under his policy. Therefore, I dont 
think Mr Us claim is covered under the terms and conditions of his policy. However, Mapfre 
said despite this, it would consider the claim. 
Mapfre said, due to the circumstances of what happened, it would require additional specific 
documentation from Mr U  which it said should have been issued to him by the police. As 
with all travel insurance policies, when making a claim, Mr U as the policyholder is required 
to provide evidence of his reasons for cancellation. And as the insurer, Mapfre is required to 
assess that evidence. Im aware Mr U has told Mapfre of the circumstances of him being 
alerted to a threat by the police, and hes provided a photograph of a relevant information 
booklet given to him. However, Mapfre has said it doesnt think this evidence is sufficient for 
it to accept the claim outside of a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions, and 
said it would have expected Mr U to provide specific documentation from the police, 
confirming the threat he was made aware of. 
Ive considered whether or not I think it was unfair for Mapfre to request more evidence from 
Mr U in order to re-assess his claim. And I dont think it was. I say this because the photo of 
the booklet Mr U provided shows the front cover only, and this doesnt provide any indication 
of the date this was issued to Mr U, or that it was issued to him specifically. Mr U has said 
that he was contacted by the police, in person, two days before he was due to travel on 
holiday, and this caused him to cancel his holiday. So, I think its fair for Mapfre to request 
evidence which would verify the date and nature of the contact from the police  especially in 
circumstances where the claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of his policy, 
and Mapfre is effectively offering to consider his claim as a gesture of goodwill. I dont think 
Mapfre has been unreasonable by deeming the photograph of the non-personalised booklet 
to be insufficient evidence to reconsider his claim. 
Ive noted what Mr U has said about it being upsetting and traumatic for him to have to re-
live matters by contacting the police again. Im sorry to hear Mr U is currently suffering from 
a mental illness, and I appreciate the difficulties that obtaining further evidence might cause 
him. However, this doesnt change my opinion that its not unreasonable for Mapfre to 
request further evidence in order to assess the claim again. I think its possible Mr U could 
have arranged to formally authorise a third party to act on his behalf, to obtain the evidence 
Mapfre requested. And he could still do this if he would like Mapfre to review the claim again. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P and Mr U 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman