DRN-2782714
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the way Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) handled a 
claim under his income protection insurance.  
Mr A has a representative acting on his behalf but for ease, Ill refer to all submissions as 
coming from Mr A himself.
What happened
Mr A held an own occupation income protection policy with LV. 
In May 2017, Mr A became unwell and was unable to work. He submitted a claim under is 
policy, which had a deferred period of 3 months. LV accepted the claim and benefit started in 
late August 2017.
Before his illness, Mr A had been working as a self-employed contractor with a company Ill 
call company A. In October 2018, he returned to work and signed a new contract  with 
company B - again on a self-employed basis.
Before returning to work in October, Mr A discussed his circumstances with LV and wanted 
to know if LV would continue to pay his claim under the proportionate benefit section of his 
policy, as he expected his income to be lower than previously.
The parties disagree on the outcome of that conversation. Mr A says LV agreed to pay 
proportionate benefit. LV say proportionate benefit was discussed, but no agreement or 
confirmation was given. 
As Mr A was returning to work on a self-employed basis, and was worried about any 
possible over-payments, it was agreed LV would retrospectively consider any benefit Mr A 
might be entitled to, once his annual accounts became available. 
LV did however recognise Mr A had returned to work earlier than expected, and paid him 
£5000.00, as a gesture of goodwill, to support his transition back into the workplace.
In October 2019, having assessed Mr As income for the previous year, and considered the 
nature of his role with company B, LV decided Mr A wasnt entitled to proportionate benefit.  
It said his role with company B was not a different job with a lower salary, but a role that 
carried the same main duties as his previous contract. LV wasnt satisfied Mr A had been 
unable, because of sickness, to return to his usual occupation. However, it took some time 
for LV to reach that conclusion and it paid Mr A compensation for the delay hed 
experienced.
Mr A disagrees. He says the role with company B used similar, transferrable skills to his 
previous role with company A but was a different job with a lower salary. Because of that, he 
believes LV should accept his claim under the proportionate benefit section of his policy.
Our investigator looked into Mr As concerns and didnt uphold his complaint. In her opinion, 
LV had evidenced the similarity in the main duties required and given the policy terms, she 
didnt think LV had done anything wrong. She was also satisfied LVs goodwill payment and 
compensation for the delay in finalising its position, went far enough.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his concerns. 
He believes his role with company B should be considered more in line with that of a system 
analyst and as such, considered a new job, with a lower salary. Hed like his original claim, 
and his claim for proportionate benefit to be treated as one. He experienced a further 
episode of illness, in early 2020, which LV has accepted, but has treated as a separate 
claim.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers 
should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules 
and guidance into account when considering Mr As complaint.
I understand Mr A has been through a difficult time and I have nothing but empathy for his 
situation but based on the information and evidence available to me, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. Let me explain.
The starting point is always the terms and conditions of the policy Mr A held with LV. The 
policy terms set out the details of the contract entered into by the parties.
Mr As policy is an own occupation policy. This means LV are insuring Mr A against being 
unable to perform the main duties of the generic occupation listed on his policy documents.  
 
The policy terms say  
Occupation  occupation at the time you became sick or had the accident that 
meant you were unable to work.
Own occupation cover  This pays out if, because of an accident or sickness you 
are unable to do your usual occupation. You would not be expected to go back to 
work in a different occupation  for as long as you are unable to do your usual 
occupation, the policy will continue to pay out.
Section A1 Own Occupation cover
Unable to work due to sickness or accident
In this section, the words unable to work and inability to work mean that 
we will pay a claim if, following your waiting period, because of sickness or 
accident, you are totally unable to carry out all the main duties of your 
occupation and arent doing any other paid or unpaid work. The words able 
to work and ability to work mean that you can work.
By main duties, we mean the duties that cant reasonably be left out without 
affecting your ability to do your occupation.  When assessing your ability to 
carry out those duties, we will consider whether there are any changes that you or your employer can reasonably make that would allow you to continue 
in your occupation.
In Mr As case, his occupation as shown on his policy documents is project 
manager/programme manager. So, in order to make a successful claim, Mr A would need to 
show he was unable to perform the main duties of a project manager/programme manager  
his usual occupation 
Mr A disputes LVs assessment of his role with company B. He says the role, whilst requiring 
transferrable project manager/programme manager skills, was a different occupation. And 
the reason hed taken the role with company B was because he couldnt fulfil the main duties 
of his usual occupation with company A.
Having considered the information available to me, Im not persuaded LV has acted 
unreasonably.
LV assessed the core skills and main duties of a project manager/programme 
manager alongside the information it received about Mr As role with company B. 
It concluded the two were comparable. Based on the information Ive seen I dont 
think that conclusion is unreasonable.
An IME report from 2020, included information from Mr A about his work with 
company B. It says . they agreed that he could refocus on the technical side 
and not manage projects. The refocussing of his work appears to have been 
discussed in the Summer of 2019  10 or so months after his contract with 
company B started, and at a time when Mr A was struggling with his health and 
had needed to take some time off work.
A further entry in the report says Mr A ..had been asked to head a project co-
ordinating teams in the UK, USA and Hong Kong. From information provided to 
me, Im satisfied this request to head a project was made in early 2019.
Both entries suggest Mr A, was involved in managing projects at company B prior 
to July 2019, and in line with the core skills and duties of his usual occupation.
A summary from his line manager at company B also mentions project 
management duties. It says he ..was asked to work on a project .. around 
March 2019 as a project manager given his backgroundhe handed over any 
responsibility associated with this project over September-October period.  
The summary goes on to say Mr A then asked to be associated with technical 
work.... This was from the time his contract was extended in October 2019.
Mr As preferred description of his role with company B is that of a system analyst and Ive 
given that careful consideration. Having researched the role of a system analyst I accept, 
based on the information from his line manager, that in the very late stages of Mr As original 
contract with company B - when his role was refocussed - his duties may have been more 
aligned to those of a system analyst for a short period of time. 
But Im conscious this refocus appears to have been at his request, and at a time when 
hed been struggling with his health and his ability to attend work.
But Ive not seen any information to show that when Mr As contract was extended in 
October 2019, around the same time as his request to refocus his duties, his contract terms 
were changed to that of a system analyst or to a lower salary.
So, based on the information available to me, Im satisfied during the term of his original 
contract with company B, his duties were the same as the main duties required of his usual 
occupation. And I cannot reasonably conclude his occupation from October 2019 changed because Ive not seen any evidence to show the terms of his contract, or his salary, were 
amended.
Proportionate benefit
Ive listened to the call between Mr A and LV in September 2018 when his planned return to 
work was discussed. And I agree with our investigator. No agreement to proportionate 
benefit was given by LV during this conversation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking Liverpool Victoria 
Financial Services Limited to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman