DRN-2955111
The complaint
Mr W complains that Scottish Widows Limited has failed to put his pension benefits into 
payment in a timely manner.
What happened
Mr W has been assisted in making his complaint, and in his dealings with Scottish Widows, 
by his financial advisor. But in this decision, for ease, I will generally not distinguish between 
the two parties when referencing any communications. I will generally refer to all 
communication as having been with, and from, Mr W himself.
Mr W held pension savings with Scottish Widows. Some of those pension benefits had been 
accrued before 6 April 2006 and entitled Mr W to take a pension commencement lump sum 
(PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash) in excess of the normal 25%. The legislation at 
that time allowed those rights to the additional PCLS to be protected, and so, at retirement, 
Mr W would be entitled to take a greater PCLS than might be the norm.
Mr W turned 55 years of age in January 2020. It seem that, around that time, he started 
discussing with his financial advisor how he might take his pension benefits from 
Scottish Widows. It appears that Scottish Widows failed to respond sufficiently to some 
requests from the financial advisor for information. So, in April 2020 Mr W complained to 
Scottish Widows about the service hed received.
In July 2020 Scottish Widows responded to Mr Ws complaint any accepted that it hadnt 
provided the information hed asked for as promptly as it should have done. It paid Mr W £75 
to compensate him for the inconvenience hed been caused. And later that month it sent 
some further information to Mr W about the value of his pension benefits.
It appears there were further discussions between Mr W, his financial advisor, and 
Scottish Widows in the following months. And I can see that, in October 2020, 
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr W to confirm that he would be able to receive his pension 
benefits in the form of a PCLS, with the residual amount being paid as a taxable lump sum. 
But it followed up that information by providing quotations for Mr W to take his pension 
benefits as a PCLS with the remainder being used to purchase an annuity.
The information Scottish Widows had given to Mr W in October 2020 was incorrect. In order 
to benefit from the enhanced PCLS payment he would need to use the remaining pension 
savings, at the same time, to purchase an annuity  either from Scottish Widows or on the 
open market. I can see that, by December 2020, Scottish Widows had made Mr W aware of 
its error in the information it had sent to him in October.
Mr W was unhappy with that change of approach from Scottish Widows. He wanted to use 
his pension savings as had been proposed in October 2020. So he asked this Service to 
investigate why Scottish Widows had changed the way in which he would need to take his 
pension benefits. He thought that Scottish Widows needed to honour the information it had 
previously provided. But, before our investigator had completed their assessment of the 
complaint, Mr W decided to take his enhanced PCLS and purchase an annuity from another 
provider.
Our investigator has looked into Mr Ws complaint. She agreed that Scottish Widows had 
provided some incorrect information in October 2020. But she thought that error had been 
corrected relatively soon afterwards, and she said that she didnt think Scottish Widows had 
to honour what it had incorrectly told Mr W. She thought that the compensation 
Scottish Widows had already paid to Mr W for the initial delays was reasonable. So our 
investigator didnt think Scottish Widows needed to do anything further in relation to the 
complaint.
Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
It is clear that Mr Ws pension savings have taken a long time to be put into payment 
following his 55th birthday in January 2020. Given what I know of his personal circumstances 
around that time I can understand why that delay was upsetting and frustrating for him. But 
in deciding this complaint my task isnt to simply consider whether there has been a delay  
I think it is clear there was. My task is to determine whether Scottish Widows was 
responsible for that delay, and if so what it should do to put things right.
There are a number of parties that might have contributed to any delays. Here I am only 
considering the actions of Scottish Widows. But I must also bear in mind the involvement of 
Mr Ws financial advisor, and also Mr W himself. There are some notable gaps in the 
timeline of events, when Scottish Widows appears to have been waiting for Mr W or his 
financial advisor to get in touch to progress matters. 
I think a matter I should consider first is the form in which Mr Ws retirement benefits could 
be taken. As Ive explained earlier, Mr Ws pension plan benefitted from being able to 
provide a PCLS in excess of the normal 25%. In fact the calculations Scottish Widows 
performed showed that Mr Ws PCLS could amount to around 55% of his pension savings. 
That was a valuable benefit, and so it would be right that Scottish Widows took great care to 
ensure that when Mr W took his benefits he remained within the relevant regulations and 
didnt lose that guaranteed benefit.With the exception of one email (that I will discuss next) Scottish Widows told Mr W that in 
order to retain the enhanced PCLS amount he would need to use the remainder of his 
retirement savings to purchase an annuity at the same time. It explained that he could either 
purchase that annuity from Scottish Widows, or take what was known as an open market 
option to purchase the annuity from another provider. Whilst I appreciate that taking an 
annuity was not Mr Ws preference  he would have rather taken the residual amount as a 
taxable lump sum  that was what he was required to do by the relevant regulations.
In October 2020 Scottish Widows did make a mistake in an email it sent to Mr W. In that 
email it told him that he would be able to take his residual pension savings as a taxable lump 
sum. But when it produced the relevant quotations its systems correctly identified that he 
would need to take an annuity instead. I can see, around two months later Scottish Widows 
formally acknowledged its error and revised the options open to Mr W.
I can understand that the incorrect information Scottish Widows provided to Mr W might 
have raised an expectation about how he could take his retirement benefits. But I dont think 
it meant he was entitled to take his pension benefits in that way  those actions had to 
remain in line with the relevant regulations. And I havent seen anything that makes me think 
Mr W made any irrevocable financial decisions as a result. It is possible that the incorrect 
information, and resulting expectation, did contribute to some of the delay in Mr W taking his 
retirement benefits  as he waited for further explanation from Scottish Widows, or for the 
outcome of this complaint. But as Ill now go on to explain, I dont think that means 
Scottish Widows needs to pay him any compensation.
Mr W first asked for information on his pension benefits in early 2020. The incorrect 
information about being able to take an additional taxable lump sum wasnt given until 
October 2020. So there was a lengthy period where Scottish Widows correctly explained that 
Mr W would need to take an annuity with the residual funds. Mr W didnt access his pension 
benefits during that time. So I cannot reasonably conclude that the relatively short period of 
time in which Scottish Widows error remained uncorrected was the sole reason he didnt 
take his pension benefits any sooner.
For entirely correct reasons I am not privy to the discussions that took place between Mr W 
and his financial advisor about putting his pension savings into payment. As I said earlier, it 
seems those discussions first commenced towards the start of 2020. And although 
Scottish Widows has accepted there was a short delay in providing some information to 
Mr W I dont think that sufficient to explain the longer delays. It might be that Mr Ws financial 
advisor proposed that Mr W should wait  I have noted that, in August 2020, he told 
Scottish Widows that Mr W wasnt being caused any financial hardship at the time. Or it 
might be that the financial advisor failed to deal with Mr Ws instructions in a timely manner. 
But from the evidence I have seen, including listening to some calls between Mr W and 
Scottish Widows, I havent seen enough to persuade me that Scottish Widows was the root 
cause of any significant delays.
In particular I have listened to phone calls that took place between Mr W and 
Scottish Widows in September and December 2020  both before the incorrect information 
about the annuity had been provided, and after it had been corrected. The discussions that 
Scottish Widows had with Mr W on both calls were remarkably similar. On both occasions 
Mr W accepted Scottish Widows guidance that it would be simpler if his financial advisor got 
in touch with the firm to request the retirement benefits be put into payment. On both 
occasions Scottish Widows provided Mr W with the phone number the financial advisor 
should call. And the matter was left with Mr W to progress with his financial advisor.So on balance I havent seen anything that makes me think that, apart from a short delay at 
the very start of the process, Scottish Widows failed to give Mr W the information he needed 
to ensure his pension benefits were put into payment.
As Ive said, there was a short delay at the very start of the process in getting the correct 
information to the financial advisor. And for that delay Scottish Widows has paid Mr W some 
compensation of £75. Having considered the later delays that appear to have arisen 
between Mr W and his financial advisor Im not persuaded that the initial problems caused 
any significant detriment to Mr W  I dont think they delayed him taking his retirement 
benefits. So I think the amount of compensation Scottish Widows has already paid for those 
initial problems is reasonable.
I appreciate that my decision will be very disappointing from Mr W. As I said at the outset 
I can understand why the time it has taken for the pension benefits to be put into payment 
was upsetting and frustrating for him. But based on the evidence I have seen I dont think 
Scottish Widows is responsible for those delays. So I dont think the complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman