DRN-2255653
The complaint
Mrs O has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc have unfairly increased the cost of her pet 
insurance policy.
Background
Mrs O took out a Pet Plan policy in 2008 to cover her dog. The policy is underwritten by 
Allianz. 
In 2017 the cost of the policy was £595.35 for the year. Allianz offered to renew the policy in 
2018 for a premium of £678.28. Mrs O contacted Allianz as she was unhappy with the 
increase and was offered a 10% discount - so she paid £602.32 for the policy that year. In 
2019 the policy premium increased again. And in 2020 Mrs O made a complaint when her 
policy had increased to £894.96. She says she cant understand how the premium can be 
increased by so much each year. She says she its now becoming too expensive and she is 
having to consider cancelling her policy. 
Allianz say the increase in premium has been calculated correctly for the risk that is 
presented to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for 
the insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power to tell a business what their 
insurance should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how they 
should operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mrs Os policy is too high. 
And I cant say she should have been charged less for the policy in the past or that she 
should be charged less in the future. 
Insurance premiums are calculated so that they can reasonably be expected to cover the 
likely claims arising from an insurance contract, with a safety margin to ensure the long-term 
viability of the insurer. The calculation is generally based on the probability of the insured 
event occurring, combined with the likely financial loss resulting from the claim. All insurers 
take a number of different factors into account when doing this calculation. 
Its very common for pet insurers to increase premiums as well as the amount their 
customers are expected to contribute towards a claim as a pet ages. This is because the risk 
of insuring the pet increases with age, and because older pets are more likely to become 
unwell and be diagnosed with long term/serious health problems. 
Other factors which contribute to the price increases are things such as increased vet costs, 
changes in insurance premium tax and other changes in underwriting. We wont interfere 
with an insurers assessment of risk or the calculation they do to determine what the 
premium will be. 
But I do need to be satisfied that Mrs O hasnt been singled out in any way and that Allianz 
have treated all comparable customers fairly and equally. Ive carefully reviewed the 
information Allianz have provided and I havent seen any evidence to suggest they have 
treated Mrs O any differently to how they would have treated any other existing policyholder 
in the same position. So I cant say Mr Os premium is unfair or tell Allianz to charge her a 
lower premium going forwards. 
When Mrs O took out her policy in 2008 I do think that Allianz should have been clearer 
about how her premium would increase each year. I think she needed clear information 
about the potential long-term cost implications, particularly as her dog got older, so she 
could understand that she might end up in the position she is now in  with a policy that is 
becoming unaffordable. 
Where I find something has gone wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it 
hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost out. It is not my role to punish Allianz. 
Mrs O chose to take out pet insurance, so she wanted some type of cover for her dog. And, 
as she chose to take out a Pet Plan lifetime policy, she clearly had some interest in the 
greater level of cover it provided. I recognise that its possible she might have gone with 
another provider offering a similar policy. But its impossible to know what policy Mrs O 
would have ended up with  it might have been cheaper, but it might also have been more 
expensive. I think its unlikely better information about the possible future costs of the policy 
would have resulted in Mrs O paying a significantly lower amount, as providers that offer this 
type of insurance tend operate in a similar way - taking the same sort of factors into account 
when the premiums are calculated at renewal. 
In fact, Mrs Os Pet Plan policy is unlike a lot of policies on the market in that its not claims 
loaded and any claim she makes on the policy does not directly affect the premium 
calculation. So shes less likely to experience the sort of significant premium increases we 
see with a number of other lifetime pet insurance policies on the market. Considering I think 
she wanted insurance for her dog, I think its likely she would have still taken this policy, 
even if she had been given better information about future costs  particularly as in the call 
recordings Ive listened to Mrs O says I know Pet Plan policies are the best. 
Although I do think Allianz should have given Mrs O better information about the potential 
policy costs, I dont think she would have been particularly shocked by the premium increase 
for her 2020 renewal. I say this as I know that Mrs O raised concerns with Allianz about a 
similar increase before in 2018 and received a discount that year. So she knew this type of 
increase was possible. She was told during the telephone conversation that the 10% was a 
one off and that afterwards she may see a bigger jump in the premium and she decided to 
continue with the cover knowing this. 
Mrs O has only had to make a reasonably small claim on the policy. And from the 
information I have, it doesnt appear that her dog has any existing or ongoing conditions. I do 
recognise that it might be more difficult for Mrs O to find a policy to cover her older dog. But 
a number of insurers do now offer insurance for older pets. So I think it would be possible for 
her to find another policy if she remains unhappy with her premiums, in the knowledge they 
will likely increase again. 
Mrs O is also concerned that her premiums have risen significantly but the maximum benefit 
has not, which she thinks is unfair. I understand her point, but that is not how these types of 
policies work. As explained above there are lots of factors taken into consideration when 
Allianz are calculating the risk they are insuring  its not just to do with vet fees and 
medication costs. Even with the maximum benefit not increasing, if vet fees increase generally, then there is still more risk for the insurer - as they are not just pricing on the 
possibility a consumer might need to claim the maximum they can on a policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman