DRN-4424927
The complaint
Miss C complains Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (VM), has failed to refund 
transactions on her credit card account she didnt authorise. Miss C also complains about 
the poor customer service she has received. 
Miss C says this matter has caused her severe distress and inconvenience.   
What happened
Miss C opened a new credit card account with VM in December 2020 by completing an 
online application. She says she did this to transfer an existing credit card balance over from 
another credit institution as VM had offered her a 0% interest account. 
Once the VM account was opened, Miss C transferred around £7,000 into it. Miss C says 
she never received the card or a PIN in the post. Nor did she activate the mobile banking 
app. Miss C says she called VM to say she hadnt received the card and was told a 
replacement one would be sent to her  but one wasnt. VM says it doesnt have any record 
of such a conversation. 
Miss C adds she didnt follow up the card request because she didnt intend to use it as she 
was focused on clearing the credit card balance. And she wasnt checking her statements as 
the payments were being made by monthly direct debit, and she wasnt intending on using 
the account otherwise.
In 2021, over 30 transactions were made on Miss Cs account ranging from payments to a 
well-known gaming platform, cash withdrawals and other retail payments. VM later contacted 
Miss C by letter informing her that she had reached her credit limit and needed to make 
payments to bring her account under it. 
Miss C says this is when she first learnt there were transactions being carried out on her 
account which she had not authorised. So when learning about this, Miss C made a 
complaint to VM.
Miss C says she has contacted VM repeatedly to get the disputed transactions looked into. 
And initially when finding out, she contacted Action Fraud and was given a crime reference 
number. Because VM were not giving her any answer on her fraud claim, Miss C says she 
stopped making regular payments to service the debt. 
As Miss C stopped making payments, the account fell into arrears. Subsequently, the debt 
was sold to a third-party debt management organisation (DM). Later, VM registered 
adverse markers against Miss C with relevant credit reference agencies. 
VM has sent Miss C several responses. It accepted its customer service had fallen below the 
standards it expects and offered to pay Miss C £25 for any distress and inconvenience she 
suffered.  VM says its investigation into Miss Cs fraud claims is still on-going. But as Miss C 
hasnt made any payments since May 2022, the balance increased due to the interest 
charged. So VM hasnt done anything wrong. 
VM also said its required to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies, and 
as it had not received payments, it has done nothing wrong by doing so. In other response, 
VM explained why it needed Miss C to provide her with identity documents. This has 
subsequently been completed by Miss C. 
Miss C is unhappy VM have continually failed to address her complaint about the disputed 
transactions. She says VMs failure to act has affected her credit file, and shes not been 
able to get a competitive new mortgage product. This has led to now paying around £500 
more a month on a variable rate mortgage. Miss C says VMs actions have directly led to her 
falling into financial difficulty which is exacerbated as she has two children to support.
Miss C says this matter has also caused her substantive mental health issues, which at one 
point led to her falling over resulting in severe facial injury. 
Unhappy with VMs responses and failure to investigate her fraud claim, Miss C referred her 
complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into Miss Cs complaint, and after 
several attempts to get information from VM, they sent their findings to both parties. Some of 
the key points they made were:
- VM can only refuse to refund the disputed payments if they can prove Miss C 
authorised the transactions or allowed someone else to use the card
 
- VM has been on notice about these payments since December 2021, but it says it is 
still investigating the fraud claim. VM hasnt provided enough evidence to suggest 
Miss C carried out the transactions or allowed someone else to do so
- VM has had sufficient time to investigate Miss Cs claim and complaint, and its 
delayed the investigation causing her more distress, inconvenience and financial 
detriment
- To put things right, VM should: 
oRecall the debt from the third-party organisation it sold it to 
oRework the account removing all disputed transactions, interest, fees and 
charges 
oIf the re-work results in a credit balance this should be refunded to Miss C 
plus 8% simple annual interest, calculated from the date the account would 
have first entered into a credit balance to the date of settlement and remove 
any adverse information it might have recorded on her credit file in relation to 
this account
oIf the re-work results in there still being an outstanding capital balance, VM 
should allow Miss C to repay the balance in line with the contractual terms 
and remove any adverse information it might have recorded on Miss Cs 
credit file in relation to this account
oPay Miss C £900 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her 
oRefund Miss Cs cost of calls to VM from December 2021 until present date. 
Miss C should provide VM with an itemised telephone bill to prove these costs
Miss C wasnt happy VM had more time to respond to what our Investigator said as it had 
had around three years to deal with it already. She explained the longer the matter remained unresolved, she had to pay increased mortgage costs - of which, the cost of an extra £500 
should be borne by VM.
In response, VM said its fraud team were still looking into the disputed transactions. It also 
disagreed that the debt should be recalled from the third-party organisation with immediate 
effect. VM say Miss C has only paid around £2,450 against the balance transfer amount of 
about £7,000  so despite the fraud claim, theres still a non-contested balance which shes 
required to service. As Miss C didnt do this, the account was correctly sold to the DM. 
VM also disagreed it should refund the cost of Miss Cs calls as its contact centres are free 
to call. And although some mobile phone operators charge a fee, VM should not be held 
liable for this. 
Miss C then sent in evidence to show her mortgage payments had increased  this was for 
September 2023. Miss C says her fixed rate product with her lender ended in June 2023. 
Our Investigator explained that Miss C should remain liable for any debt she legitimately 
owes VM from her balance transfer. Our Investigator also explained this to VM. They also 
added that VMs internal records show the debt should not have been sold onto the DM and 
it can be returned to VM. They emphasised also that Miss C would need to provide evidence 
to VM of the cost of the calls for it to refund her. 
This complaint has now been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The crux of this complaint relates to Miss Cs claims that she didnt authorise a host of 
payments outside of the balance transfer. She says she never received the credit card nor 
did she set-up an online account. 
Section 83 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says that a customer isn't liable for the use of a 
credit facility unless they (or someone acting as their agent) used the facility. But as an 
exception to that, section 84 says that a customer who gives someone a credit token is liable 
for any use of it by that person. So VM can only refuse to refund these transactions if it can 
show they were authorised by Miss C or someone she gave authority to. 
Miss C says she isnt aware of any postal issues, she doesnt own a gaming machine 
aligned to the platform payments that were made nor has she ever had a card for the 
account. VM have given me very limited records which include records of a mobile phone 
logging into the online account. It hasnt, as I would expect, shown me technical records to 
show how the payments were made and authenticated. 
So because of this, the question as to whether Miss C authorised the disputed transactions 
falls on the plausibility of her assertion that she never received the card - and so didnt carry 
out the transactions herself, nor authorised someone to do so. 
Miss C has consistently maintained that she opened this account solely for the balance 
transfer, and as she was making regular payments by direct debit, she didnt need to monitor 
it closely. She says as soon as it was bought to her attention that she had met or exceeded 
her credit limit, she contacted VM to discuss this issue.From the information Ive been given, Im persuaded this was most likely the case. Thats 
because the timeline of events, and Miss Cs testimony, are consistent with this. VM 
responded to Miss Cs complaint points about poor customer service, her credit file markers 
and the debt being sold on  but till date it has failed to provide her with an answer to the 
root cause of her complaint. That is, the disputed transactions. 
VM has had more than sufficient and reasonable time to provide evidence it thinks shows 
Miss C did authorise the payments. So based on the information I do have, I uphold Miss Cs 
complaint about not authorising all payments outside of her balance transfer. That means 
they need to be refunded or removed from the account from the day they were made. Any 
related interest and charges should also be refunded. That includes any fees and charges 
for cash withdrawals. 
Miss C has explained in detail the impact of VM not refunding her charges, and not dealing 
with the matter in a timely manner, have had on her. This includes severe financial difficulty 
and distress affecting her mental health. She says that the stress of VM not properly 
investigating matters led to her falling and sustaining severe facial injuries. 
It's difficult to determine how much of a direct consequence VMs actions had on Miss C 
falling and injuring herself based on the information I have. I do of course think that VMs 
failings would likely have impacted Miss Cs mental health.  
Miss C says that because of the adverse markers placed against her by VM, she hasnt 
been able to obtain a new lower interest rate mortgage fixed product when her previous 
product finished in June 2023.
Theres no guarantee Miss C would get a similar rate as she had before, especially as the 
market for mortgages has changed significantly from when she likely had her former product. 
Nor is this a reasonably foreseeable consequence. So any award I make will take this into 
account.   
But I do agree that VMs failings have led to a protracted and longer period in which Miss C 
would have been severely distressed and inconvenienced. More so, because its more than 
evident from the phone records and emails Ive seen that she was constantly pressing VM to 
look into the fraud claim. 
I accept Miss C owes a debt to VM as the payments she did make havent satisfied the debt 
she created when transferring over her balance. So this is something she must pay back to 
VM. But VM have sold this onto DM and argue it isnt able to take it back. I dont agree.
VMs internal notes show it made the wrong decision when transferring this debt on, and I do 
question why it did such a thing when it knew that there was a dispute regarding what 
Miss C says she owed and had authorised. These internal notes and emails also show that 
the debt can be rewound back from DM to VM.
VM argue that as Miss C always owed money to it from the balance transfer, and as she 
stopped making her regular contractual payments in May 2022, the adverse credit 
information its reported to the credit agencies is accurate and shouldnt be changed. 
Generally I would agree with this. But in the individual circumstances of this complaint, I 
dont. Thats because Im persuaded Miss C took a reasonable position by stopping the 
payments as VM were not dealing with her disputed transactions claim over a substantially 
long period, and by doing so she felt it would. 
Ive listened to some calls between Miss C and VMs agents, and in one such call in 
September 2022, Miss C says this service told her to stop the payments. I wouldnt expect this guidance to be given by our employees  nor have I seen any evidence that was the 
case. But I still think Miss C took up a reasonable position due to VM delaying and not 
considering the disputed transaction claim. So that means Im persuaded VM should remove 
any adverse markers its placed against Miss C and put her back in the position she was in 
up until the date of the transactions. 
VM should also put the account back in the position it was before the transactions in dispute 
were made and allow Miss C to make payments in line with the contractual terms and 
conditions of the account. 
Lastly, I note VM says that its call centres are free, and so it shouldnt have to pay for any 
calls Miss C made to it. Im satisfied Miss C made many calls to VM to try and resolve her 
complaint. But despite assurances, the fraud claim has never been investigated 
satisfactorily. So if Miss C can provide VM with clear evidence from any phone company that 
she did incur costs such costs, these should be refunded.
Putting things right
To put things right, VM should: 
- Recall and the debt from DM, and reconstruct the account with it at no cost to Miss C 
- Rework the account removing all disputed transactions, any associated interest, fees 
and charges 
- If the re-work results in a credit balance this should be refunded to Miss C plus 8% 
simple annual interest, calculated from the date the account would have first entered 
into a credit balance to the date of settlement and remove any adverse information it 
might have recorded on her credit file in relation to this account* 
- If the re-work results in there still being an outstanding capital balance, VM should 
allow Miss C to repay the balance in line with its contractual terms and conditions 
and remove any adverse information it might have recorded on Miss Cs credit file in 
relation to this account
- Pay Miss C £900 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her 
- Refund Miss Cs cost of calls to VM from December 2021 until present date. Miss C 
will need to provide VM with an itemised telephone bill to prove these costs before 
they can be refunded 
* If VM considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C a tax deduction certificate if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin 
Money, should now put things right as directed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman