DRN-4199309
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the assistance received from Euroins AD under their travel 
insurance policy.
All reference to Euroins AD includes its medical assistance team.
What happened
Whilst abroad, in October 2022, Mrs P experienced pain in her leg. She says her leg 
became very hot and swollen within a short period of time. A doctor advised her to 
immediately go to hospital and a holiday representative called a taxi to take her there. 
Mrs P was initially told she had a blood clot. She contacted Euroins and advised that shed 
been taken to a private medical facility. Euroins told her that there was no cover under her 
travel insurance policy for private treatment. 
Euroins requested a medical report from the private medical facility to confirm diagnosis and 
whether it was safe for her to be transferred to a public hospital. The private medical facility 
wouldnt provide a medical report unless Mrs P was admitted overnight. And they advised 
that the nearest public hospital was an hour away.
So, Euroins advised Mrs P to pay and claim for the treatment overnight which she didnt 
think was fair because she couldnt afford to do this. Mrs P was discharged from the private 
medical facility a couple of days later. She received no contact from Euroins until after she 
was discharged. 
Mrs P complained to Euroins about the way she was treated. Having considered the medical 
evidence, Euroins said Mrs P had been stable enough to be transferred to a public hospital 
which was around two miles away from the private medical facility. And that the policy didnt 
cover for private treatment where adequate public facilities were available. However, it 
apologised for not telling Mrs P, when first contacted, that the public hospital was only two 
miles away. 
Mr and Mrs P brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. In the particular circumstances of this case, she didnt think it was fair 
for Euroins not to cover medical costs because they were incurred at a private medical 
facility. She recommended Euroins assess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms 
and conditions. She also recommended Euroins pay Mr and Mrs P £250 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Although, Euroins said it would be sending Mr and Mrs P a claim form to complete and 
return with supporting evidence, it didnt confirm acceptance of our investigators view. So, 
this complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Euroins has an obligation to treat customers fairly. It also has a regulatory duty to handle 
claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. 
When first contacting Euroins for assistance, Im satisfied that Mrs P was told that the policy 
didnt cover private treatment. Further, in its final response letter dated November 2022, 
Euroins has confirmed that as adequate public facilities were available, it wont cover Mrs 
Ps treatment costs at the private medical facility.
The policy terms provide cover for emergency medical expenses, but it says:
We will pay for private treatment only if there is no appropriate reciprocal health 
agreement in existence and no public service available. We reserve the right to 
organise a transfer from a private medical facility to a public medical facility where 
appropriate.
It also says that the policy doesnt provide cover for:
Any treatment, investigations or tests in a private hospital or clinic unless authorised 
and agreed by us in advance
Ill refer to this as the exclusion. 
However, I dont think Euroins has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this 
case by declining to cover Mrs Ps medical costs on the basis that they were incurred at a 
private medical facility. Ill explain why.
Mrs P says she wasnt aware that she was being taken to a private medical facility 
and that she only became aware of this once she arrived. Theres no compelling 
reason for me to doubt what she says about that, so I accept her submissions on this 
point. 
When first contacting Euroins, Mrs P said she had a blood clot and infection. And 
when speaking with the private medical facility Euroins contact notes reflect that it 
was told that the nearest public hospital was approximately one hour away. Euroins 
has subsequently said that wasnt right and the nearest public hospital was around 
two miles away. It accepts it didnt inform Mrs P about this at the time. 
I can understand given the seriousness of the situation and that Mrs P has said she 
was told that there was a risk that the blood clot could move to her heart, which is 
why she didnt want to travel an hour to another medical facility.
The private medical facility didnt provide a medical report at the time confirming 
whether it was medically safe for her to be transferred to a public hospital one hour 
away as it told Euroins Mrs P would need to be admitted overnight for a medical 
report to be produced. 
Euroins has said that its medical team has said her condition was stable enough to 
have travelled around two miles to receive treatment from the closest public hospital. 
However, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs Ps condition was stable enough to 
travel for one hour which is what she was told at the time.
Mrs P was told that she could pay for treatment overnight and then claim under the 
policy. I can understand why, in the circumstances, Mrs P was upset. She was in a 
vulnerable situation and says she couldnt afford to pay. She says she was only able 
to do so because her family transferred money to her. In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I accept what she says about that. 
Im satisfied that no further assistance was offered by Euroins which I dont think was 
fair in this case. For example, Euroins didnt contact Mrs P to check her prognosis or 
for an update as to whether it was medically safe for her to be transferred to a public 
hospital (or to tell her that it had located a public hospital around two miles away). It 
only contacted her after shed been discharged from the private medical facility
Im satisfied that Euroins failures in this case caused Mr and Mrs P distress and 
inconvenience. They had the unnecessary worry of being told that theyd be responsible for 
the medical costs incurred, at an already distressing time, and had to request funds from 
family members to cover the medical costs. 
Putting things right
I direct Euroins to:
reassess Mr and Mrs Ps claim  including a claim to cover medical expenses and 
hospital benefit  in line with the remaining terms of the policy on the basis that the 
exclusion doesnt apply. 
pay £250 compensation to Mr and Mrs P for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I direct Euroins AD to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman