DRN-3399755
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) blocked and closed his 
account without prior warning and without explaining why.
What happened
On 20 October 2020, NatWest blocked Mr Ss account while it carried out a review. It 
completed its review on 27 October 2020 and wrote to Mr S saying it would be closing his 
account in 14 days time.
Mr S complained, but NatWest didnt change its position. It issued a final response letter on 
11 November 2020, saying it couldnt disclose the reasons for its decision, but that it was 
made in line with the terms or Mr Ss account.
Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint, saying she was satisfied NatWest had acted appropriately when it 
blocked and closed Mr S account. Mr S said he felt the closure was connected to NatWests 
decision to decline a loan application made by Mr Ss limited company and made 
representations about the effects that declination had on him personally.
Because this complaint relates to the account in Mr Ss personal name, I wont address any 
matters relating to Mr Ss limited company. Any matters relating to the limited companys 
account must be dealt with separately and our investigator has explained the situation in 
connection with that matter to Mr S. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
If Im to uphold Mr Ss complaint, Id need to be satisfied that NatWest has acted 
unreasonably or done something wrong. And, having looked at everything both parties have 
sent me, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
The banking industry is heavily regulated and all banks in the UK have various legal and 
regulatory obligations, with which they have to comply. As part of these obligations, 
sometimes banks have to block accounts while they carry out a review and gather certain 
documents or information. 
Having looked at all of the evidence, Im satisfied NatWest was entitled to take the actions it 
did. NatWest has explained that it was acting in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
Mr Ss account and, having reviewed the same, Im satisfied that it was and that it was 
complying with its legal and regulatory obligations in doing so.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss account  which both NatWest and Mr S had to comply 
with  say that NatWest could close the account at any time by giving two months notice, or 
immediately and without notice, under certain circumstances. 
Ive looked at the terms of business, and Ive thought about the evidence NatWest provided 
me to support its decision. Having considered the evidence Ive been provided, Im satisfied 
that NatWest acted in accordance with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr Ss 
account. That is to say Im satisfied it was entitled to close Mr Ss account and that it wasnt 
obliged to give greater notice or advance warning.
I understand Mr S wants to know why NatWest blocked and closed his account. But, while I 
can say that Ive reviewed NatWests actions and Im satisfied it did nothing wrong, I cant 
reasonably tell it to disclose the reasons for its actions, because its under no obligation to 
reveal those reasons. So, its entitled to choose not to if it wishes.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman