DRN-3738599
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt reimbursed him after he notified it that hed 
fallen victim to a scam.
Background
Mr M has an account with HSBC. In April 2022, he used that account to make a transfer to a 
person he knows. The precise details are unclear, but Mr M has told us that he was invited 
to invest in a joint business venture overseas. He transferred £3,570. Whatever agreement 
had been reached between Mr M and this individual has since broken down. He says that 
they blocked his number and that, when he visited them at their home, they called the police. 
Mr M told Action Fraud that hed fallen victim to a scam. He also complained to HSBC, but it 
decided not to reimburse him. It wasnt persuaded that Mr M was the victim of a scam. It 
thought this was primarily a private civil dispute between Mr M and the recipient of his 
payment. The recipient was a personal contact of Mr Ms, he knew where they lived, and 
their respective children attended the same school. It also noted that there had been several 
previous payments made to this recipient which Mr M didnt dispute.
Mr M wasnt happy with HSBCs response and so he referred his complaint to this service. It 
was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. She agreed with HSBC that this was a 
civil dispute, rather than a scam.
Mr M disagreed with the Investigators view. He said that the fact that hed made genuine 
payments to this person in the past didnt automatically mean that they didnt scam him 
when they invited him to invest in this project. As Mr M disagreed with the Investigators 
view, the complaint was passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the Investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. 
I should be clear at the outset that Im only looking at whether HSBC has done what it was 
supposed to do. That doesnt mean that the person Mr M paid the money to hasnt done 
anything wrong or that he isnt entitled to get his money back from them directly. I cant make 
any finding on that point, but he may want to take independent legal advice to explore his 
options.
Under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, HSBC is expected (subject to 
certain conditions being met) to refund its customers if they fall victim to a scam. However, 
its not required to do so in the case of a civil dispute. Whether or not Mr Ms losses were 
due to a scam depends largely on what the intentions were of the person he paid  i.e. did 
they set out to deceive or mislead him for financial gain? I cant know for certain what those 
intentions were and so I must weigh up the evidence that is available and decide whether 
that shows its more likely than not that this was fraudulent.
It's for Mr M to demonstrate that that hes been victim of a scam. Unfortunately, Im not 
persuaded that hes done that. He has told us in general terms that he was investing in a 
business opportunity. Unfortunately, there is almost no evidence available regarding the 
actions or intentions of the person he paid. Hes shown us photos of a piece of machinery 
that was intended to be used as part of this joint venture, but no real explanation as to what 
agreement hed reached in exchange for his money. I dont know for sure whether Mr M was 
the victim of a scam or not. However, given the very limited information about what took 
place, Im satisfied HSBC acted fairly and reasonably when it decided that this was primarily 
a civil dispute  
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman