DRN-3588262
The complaint
Mr B and Ms V have complained about poor customer service and delays by Barclays Bank 
UK Plc and its solicitors in relation to their mortgage application.
To settle the complaint they want Barclays to compensate them for the stress and upset they 
were caused.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 24 June 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
Secondly, what led to the complaint being made really isnt in dispute. Barclays has 
accepted it caused delays and made mistakes, and has offered compensation, so I dont 
need to analyse the events in order to decide if Barclays is at fault; all I need to determine is 
whether the compensation offered is fair and reasonable. 
Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr B and Ms V being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary 
of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mr B and Ms V, first-time buyers, were purchasing a leasehold property with the 
assistance of a mortgage from Barclays. Mr B and Ms V had their own solicitors, and 
Barclays instructed another firm to act for it. 
In June 2021 Mr B and Ms V complained to Barclays about delays by both Barclays and its 
solicitors, which almost led to them losing the property they were buying. Barclays looked at 
what had happened and accepted that there had been avoidable delays. Barclays offered 
compensation of £500.
Dissatisfied with this, Mr B and Ms V complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened. In a detailed letter dated 24 June 2022 he set out 
a chronology of events, highlighting the delays caused by Barclays and its solicitors. He was 
satisfied that these delays had resulted in a lot of wasted time, as well as worry and upset, 
for Mr B and Ms V. 
The investigator didnt think £500 went far enough to compensate Mr B and Ms V for the 
stress theyd been caused. He asked Barclays to pay a further £250, taking the total 
compensation to £750. Barclays agreed to this but Mr B and Ms V didnt think it was 
sufficient for the upset theyd been caused.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, I wont be repeating all the details of what went wrong and why. Thats 
because Barclays hasnt disputed that mistakes were made. But I confirm Ive considered 
everything that happened, and thought about the impact of this on Mr B and Ms V.
Buying a property can be a stressful experience, even when things go smoothly. In this case, 
there were delays and mistakes by both Barclays and its solicitors. I think these could have 
been avoided if both the bank and its solicitors had applied a bit more diligence, attention to 
detail and timeliness to their actions. 
Barclays and its solicitors were aware that, due to this being a shared ownership property, 
there was a window of time during which the housing associations valuation was valid, and 
the bank also knew that this had been extended, with a final date of 14 June 2021 to 
complete. Due to the delays, the deadline to complete was almost missed, and it went down 
to the wire, completing on the last day on which the valuation had been extended. 
Ultimately, although Mr B and Ms V were worried they might lose the property, they didnt in 
fact do so. But I think the actions of Barclays and its solicitors caused considerable stress to 
Mr B and Ms V, which would have been avoided had there been better customer service.
Putting things right
Barclays offered compensation of £500, but later agreed with the investigators 
recommendation of £750. I think this is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the mistakes 
made and delays caused by Barclays and its solicitors. Although Mr B and Ms V asked for 
more compensation, theyve not provided any evidence or arguments to persuade me that a 
higher award would be justified.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Barclays Bank 
UK Plc to pay total compensation for distress and inconvenience of £750 (£500 offered in 
the final response letter and an additional £250). I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms V to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman