DRN-2662120
The complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt settled a travel disruption claim he made 
on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr M travelled to Australia to visit his daughter. He booked a separate trip 
from an Australian city to Bali, as part of his overall trip, between 19 and 23 March 2020, for 
himself, his daughter and her partner, as a gift for her birthday. He booked and paid for the 
return flights between Australia and Bali via an online travel provider and villa 
accommodation in Bali through an online accommodation provider.
Mr M travelled to Australia as planned. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the 
Australian government advised that any non-Australian nationals who left the country 
wouldnt be allowed to return. So Mr M cancelled the trip to Bali. The accommodation owner 
offered Mr M a credit voucher for the accommodation which would be valid until the end of 
2021. And the travel provider offered Mr M a credit voucher for the value of the flights, which 
could be rerouted and which would also be valid until the end of 2021. But as Mr M 
considered that hed need to travel back to Australia to make use of the vouchers, he felt 
they were of no use to him. So he made a claim on his travel insurance policy.
AXA turned down the claim. It said that the policy only covered financial losses a 
policyholders suffered. As both the travel and the accommodation provider had offered Mr M 
a credit voucher for the full value of his booking; it said he hadnt suffered a financial loss. It 
told Mr M that if he was unhappy with the travel and accommodation providers offers; hed 
need to take it up with them.
Mr M was unhappy with AXAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She thought that as the 
travel and accommodation provider had offered Mr P credit notes, his losses were 
recoverable. So she felt it was fair for AXA to turn down his claim. She also considered that 
as the credit notes were valid until the end of 2021 and that the flights could be put towards 
any route; the terms of the vouchers werent unfairly restrictive.
Mr M disagreed. He said that hed lost access to the money for around a year. He felt that 
travel insurance provided cover when things went wrong. He said things had gone wrong for 
him and he wanted recompense. And he said hed have to go back to Australia to use the 
vouchers, which is currently impossible and is an unreasonable requirement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down Mr Ms claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy and the circumstances of his claim to decide whether 
AXA treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, as it forms the basis of his 
contract with AXA. Mr M paid for the optional Travel Disruption cover, so AXA considered 
the claim under this section of the policy. This says:
What is covered
We will pay you for your proportion only of any unused travel, accommodation and other pre-
paid charges that you cannot claim back from any other source if you cannot travel and have 
to cancel your trip as a result of:
The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other regulatory 
authority in a country to/from which you are travelling advising against all travel or all but 
essential travel to the country or specific area you are travelling to providing the advice came 
into force after you purchased this insurance or booked the trip (whichever is the later)and 
was within 28 days of your departure date.
This section of the policy also includes a list of specific things the policy doesnt cover. One 
of these says:
Any costs incurred by you which are recoverable from the providers of the accommodation, 
their booking agents (or the administrators of either) or for which you receive or are expected 
to receive compensation or reimbursement.
Theres no dispute that while Mr M was away, the Australian government imposed rules 
which meant that non-Australian citizens wouldnt be able to return to Australia once they left 
it. This meant that if Mr M had taken the trip to Bali as hed planned, he wouldnt have been 
able to return to Australia to catch his return flight. So I can understand why he chose to 
cancel the trip to Bali. 
But AXA says that as the accommodation and travel providers have offered Mr M credit 
notes for the full value of his accommodation and his flights; he hasnt suffered a financial 
loss which is covered by the policy. And I think the policy wording makes it clear that AXA 
doesnt cover costs which can be recovered from elsewhere. Ive seen a copy of an email 
from Mr Ms accommodation provider. This states it could offer a voucher for the amount it 
received for his booking, which would be valid for a stay up until the end of 2021. 
Ive also seen a copy of an email from Mr Ms travel provider. This says that Mr Ms airline 
could offer a full refund as a voucher for the tickets  or that it could offer rebooking or a 
reroute. Again, this offer is valid until the end of 2021.
Based on this evidence, I think it was fair for AXA to conclude that Mr M hadnt suffered a 
financial loss, because the credit notes would cover the full value of Mr Ms pre-booked 
accommodation and flights. And both providers have offered Mr M around 20 months to make use of the credit notes. I dont think its unreasonable for AXA to conclude that Mr M 
might been in a position to use the credit notes before they expire. And in my view, the terms 
of the credit notes arent overly restrictive. I say that because the flight vouchers dont limit 
Mr M to flying from or to Australia  they can be rerouted. Its open to Mr M to make use of 
the accommodation if he chooses to do so. And it isnt clear that Mr Ms daughter and her 
partner cant make use of the accommodation even if Mr M doesnt feel able to do so. Given 
Mr M told us he booked the Bali trip to celebrate his daughters birthday, it seems that he 
planned for her and her partner to stay there at his own cost.    
I can understand why Mr M might prefer to get a cash refund for his costs. Especially as I 
appreciate that future travel plans are currently uncertain. I do sympathise with his position 
and its open to him to get back in touch with his travel and accommodation provider if hes 
unhappy with the options theyve given him. But taking everything into account, I think it was 
fair for AXA to consider that Mr M hasnt suffered a financial loss in the circumstances of this 
case. So I think it was fair for AXA to turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman