The complaint
Mr P complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent him money on high interest loans he was 
unable to afford to repay
What happened
AvantCredit provided the following loans to Mr P:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
PayableDate 
repaid
Loan one 03/08/2015 £1,000 12 
months£101.80 £1,221.63 01/08/2016
Loan two 08/08/2016 £2,000 24 
months£110.71 £2,656.98 05/08/2018
Mr P complained that they were high inte rest loans and that it caused hi m financial difficulty 
in having to repay them.
AvantCred it said that fo r both loans Mr P provided details of his financia l circumstances in 
his loan application. It considered this and verified the income amou nt he provided against 
informatio
n available to it from the Cre dit Reference Agencies ("CRAs").  It also took into 
consideration further information provide d by the C RAs, such as his credit score and existing 
credit commitments. It said that at no time did it offe r him a loan for an amount higher than it 
considered he could afford, so it carried out affordability assessme nts fairly.
Our adjudicator said that taking into accou nt Mr Ps circumstances AvantCredit shou ld have 
carried out further checks and that those checks would have revealed that the loan 
repayments in Mr Ps circumstances werent sustainable. He said the decision to lend both 
loans to him was in his opinion unfair.
AvantCred it disagreed, setting out that both loans were for debt consolidation and provided 
tables of debts that Mr P could have repaid, bringing his credit commitments down to a 
manageable level and making the loans affordable.
The matter has been passed to me fo r furthe r consideration.
Page 1 of 4
DRN-3319881Page 2 of 4What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr P would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ps ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that AvantCredit had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr P undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P.  
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).Page 3 of 4Mr P had a low income, so AvantCredit should have carried out a thorough assessment of 
Mr Ps financial circumstances at the time of the application.
loan one
As set out above, AvantCredits checks consisted of assessing Mr Ps circumstances from 
his loan application, verifying his oncome, and checking his credit record. AvantCredit has 
provided a credit summary rather than the full credit record. However from this it could be 
seen that Mr P had taken out seven credit accounts in the six months prior to the loan, four 
of which were short term loans. 
The loan was supposed to be for debt consolidation, but in light of the information in the 
credit report, I think AvantCredit should have carried out a more thorough assessment of 
Mr Ps finances to establish affordability. 
The most appropriate source of that information would have been bank statements, although 
there may have been other evidence. Mr P has supplied his bank statements which showed 
that between April 2015 and July 2015, he took out a total of eight short term loans, some of 
which didnt appear on his credit report. With the loan instalment he would have had credit 
commitments of about £630 out of an income of £1,700, which is quite high.
I appreciate that AvantCredit says that Mr P should have used the loan to pay off his credit 
commitments, bringing the ratio of income against commitments down to an affordable level. 
However it hasnt shown in its records that the loan was used for paying off specific loans. It 
could have stipulated that in order to borrow the money, the loans had to be paid off e.g. by 
paying the loan companies out of the loan before providing any money to Mr P. It didnt do 
that and I think as a result the loan was unaffordable to Mr P. I dont think AvantCredit made 
a fair lending decision in respect of this loan.
loan two
Mr P had paid up loan one, but I note he missed three payments which he had to be chased 
about. In respect of this loan, Mr P declared the same income and living expenses. Though 
I note the latter was set out at £600 when it actually totalled £837. The credit report showed 
that that he had taken on eight new accounts in the previous six months, four of which were 
in the three months prior to this loan. And it would have been apparent that his credit 
commitments hadnt reduced as they were supposed to after the first loan. 
Again I think AvantCredit should have carried out further checks because of the information 
revealed by the credit report and because of Mr Ps previous history with it. With the new 
loan, his credit commitments from his bank statements would have increased to £760 a 
month, about £120 a month higher than AvantCredits calculations.
Again AvantCredit says that Mr P should have used the loan to pay off his credit 
commitments. However again it didnt ensure this was done. I take into account that Mr P 
approached AvantCredit for this loan only a few days after paying off loan one with higher 
credit commitments than when he took out loan one. But it still didnt ensure that Mr P paid 
off his credit commitments.
AvantCredit has suggested that Mr P could still have afforded the loan without paying off his 
other loans/credit, as he would have had a disposable income of £292. I calculate this to be 
more like £103. I note also that Mr P had gambling payments on his recent bank statements. 
I dont think this loan was affordable.
So I dont think AvantCredit made a fair lending decision in respect of this loan.Page 4 of 4Putting things right
I think its fair that Mr P should repay the capital sums hes received as hes had the benefit 
of that. But I think AvantCredit should repay all the interest and other charges on the loans. It 
should:
refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on both loans.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the
date(s) they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement.*
remove any negative information if appropriate about the loans from Mr Ps credit
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. It must give
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman