DRN-2738059
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc didnt carry out proper affordability 
checks before he entered a conditional sale agreement through which he acquired a new 
motor vehicle. He wants interest and any charges refunded.
What happened
Mr H tells us that he didnt think that Santander carried out adequate affordability checks 
when it granted him finance for a new vehicle in October 2013. He states that payments 
were unsustainable after his partners income was reduced. Mr H says that he was also 
unable to afford the balloon payment at the end of the agreement without help from family 
members.
Agreement details:
Type of agreement: Conditional sale
 Start date: 31/10/2013
 Capital amount: £18,150
 Interest: £1,830.34 (plus an additional £289 completion fee)
 Total amount repayable: £20,269.34
 Term: 49 months 
 Repayments: 48 monthly repayments of £309.83 and a final payment of £5,397.50
Santander has explained that at the relevant time, the affordability decision was based 
largely on credit reference agency checks. And that as there were no defaults on Mr Hs 
credit file, he met its criteria.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Santander hadnt carried out sufficient checks.  But she said that if Santander had carried 
out adequate checks it would likely have reached the same lending decision. Having seen 
Mr Hs banks statements for the relevant time she thought that the finance was affordable. 
She felt that Mr Hs partner becoming unable to work wasnt something that either party 
would know at the time the lending decision was taken.
Mr H didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint is about the finance agreement with Santander which he entered in 
October 2013 to acquire a new vehicle. He feels the agreement was unaffordable, including 
the final balloon payment.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
Prior to making a decision to lend to Mr H, Santander was required to make reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that he could afford to repay the agreement in a sustainable 
way. Theres no fixed list of how to assess creditworthiness. But amongst the factors to 
consider would likely be the type of credit being provided, the length of the term, the 
frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of credit. And anything that 
Santander knew about any other agreements it may have had with Mr H.
In order to determine if the finance agreement was unaffordable the main issues I need to 
consider are:
1. Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
H would be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way?
      a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision based on those checks? 
      b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr H would be   
            able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way?
2. Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks?
I emphasise that the time for judging the lending decision is at the point it was made. And its 
based on what Santander knew, or ought reasonably to have known, at that time. 
Mr H was being provided with credit of £18,150 with 48 payments of £309.83 and final 
(optional) balloon payment of £5,397.50. Thats a substantial commitment over a lengthy 
period.
Mr H had previously taken out a vehicle finance agreement with Santander in November 
2012. Ive not seen what checks were carried out for that loan. But as it was settled when the 
new agreement was incepted and Mr H makes no complaint about that earlier loan, Ill 
concentrate on what Santander did in October 2013.
Theres no precise detail about what checks Santander carried out. But as it was able to 
identify Mr H didnt have a default on his credit file it appears probable that checks were 
conducted with one or more credit reference agencies. But credit reference checks alone 
wouldnt have told Santander much about whether Mr H could repay the finance sustainably 
over a four year term.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Whilst it had the record of his earlier loan repayments theres nothing to show that Santander 
enquired as to whether or not Mr Hs circumstances had changed in the intervening period. 
Its hard to see how Santander could be satisfied that Mr H could afford this new finance 
without knowing what he was earning and what his expenditure was.Ive concluded that Santander didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. And 
that it shouldve gone further and carried out checks on both income and expenditure. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr H would be   
able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way?
I think that if Santander had made further enquiries about Mr Hs income and expenditure, 
its probable it wouldve gone ahead and provided the finance. Ill explain why.
Its not for this service to say what checks Santander should have specifically done. But I 
wouldve expected it to ask Mr H about his income and committed expenditure. I cant be 
sure what Santander wouldve found had it carried out these checks. But Ive looked at Mr 
Hs bank statements as that gives the best approximation of what it would have likely learnt 
or seen had it carried out proportionate checks.
Mr H has provided bank statements for several months leading up to the agreement he took 
out in October 2013. The bank statements show that he had an income from employment of 
just under £1,700 per month. And that his partner was also contributing various amounts to 
household expenditure each month. On average those contributions came to nearly £800 
per month.
Whilst Mr Hs committed expenditure amounted to about £1,700 per month (the breakdown 
was detailed in our investigators second view) that leaves around £780 to cover food, petrol 
and insurance costs and the Santander payment. So it appears theres sufficient disposable 
income. And with the additional factor that the monthly payment for the later agreement was 
around £90 per month less than for the first agreement, I think Santander wouldve 
concluded that it was affordable and sustainable.
Im aware that Mr Hs partners income was reduced in February 2014, unfortunately due to 
ill health. But this was some months into the agreement and theres no information to show 
this was a foreseeable event.  I dont think Santander couldve taken this into account at the 
time the lending decision was made.
Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr H has mentioned that Santander hadnt taken account of his ability to make the final 
balloon payment. I dont think that Santander did anything wrong here. That payment was an 
optional payment. So Mr H had the opportunity to return the vehicle without further cost had 
he chosen to do so at the time.
In the event I understand that he extended the finance agreement to pay for the balloon 
payment and settled the agreement with the help of a family gift. And retained the vehicle.
I havent seen anything to make me think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way.
In summary, I find that Santander failed to make reasonable and proportionate checks 
before providing Mr H with finance in October 2013.  But for the reasons Ive explained, I find 
it more probable than not that had such checks been undertaken, the finance would still 
have been provided.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman