DRN-4418768
The complaint
Mr G complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)s decision to hold him 
at fault and settle another drivers claim against his commercial motor insurance policy. Hes 
also unhappy about the amount it paid out and its level of service.
What happened
Mr G was involved in an incident with a van, and he notified RSA. RSA investigated the 
claim and settled it as fault. It paid for the other drivers repairs, but it didnt tell Mr G this at 
the time. RSA agreed that it should have given Mr G clearer information and engaged better 
with him. After Mr Gs complaint came to us, RSA offered him £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset this caused. But Mr G remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought RSA 
was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to settle the claim as it thought best. And he 
thought it had reasonably considered the evidence before holding Mr G at fault. He thought it 
had reasonably based its payment for the other drivers repairs on an experts assessment. 
But he thought RSA should have been clear to Mr G from the start that he was at fault. And 
he thought its offer of £100 compensation for this was fair and reasonable.
Mr G replied that he thought RSA hadnt considered the full evidence and information 
available to substantiate that the claimed for damage was accident-related. He said his 
photographs showed that the damage was pre-existing. He thought the accident hadnt 
caused any damage and the other driver had been uninjured. He thought RSA should revisit 
the investigation. Mr G asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G said he had a minor collision, at low speed, with a van. He said he notified RSA of this 
and that the other driver had said damage to the van was pre-existing. Mr G offered RSA 
photographs and more information, but RSA said this wasnt then needed. 
RSA later contacted Mr G to ask if he was claiming for any damage, which he wasnt. And 
he heard nothing further until he learned that the other driver was making a personal injuries 
claim, and RSA had paid £5,000 for repairs. 
I can understand that Mr G feels frustrated that the minor collision he described led to such 
an outcome. And hes told us that the fault claim on his record means that he is unable to 
locate affordable cover. Mr G thought the other driver may have been partly at fault. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing an accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr G the same as someone else in his position. 
RSA is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr G to take over, defend, or 
settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr G has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before deciding how to settle it. 
Mr G said he had hit the van in the rear at low speed in traffic. In keeping with relevant rules, 
this would be regarded as a fault claim as Mr G has a duty to allow enough stopping 
distance. RSA didnt tell Mr G this at the time, and I will consider this further below. But I 
think it reasonably decided to hold Mr G at fault. 
RSA contacted the vans owner, and it then made a claim for repairs. It isnt unusual or 
wrong for an insurer to proactively make contact with the other party as this may reduce its 
outlay if there is a claim. So I cant say that RSA did anything wrong in this. 
Mr G described the damage caused at the time:
there was a mark on the bumper of the van and my car bumper was broken and bent, as 
was my number plate, and the undertray below the engine was knocked out of place.
But the other driver said there was also damage to the vans rear door. RSA appointed an 
independent engineer to inspect the van, review the repair estimate from the chosen repairer 
and authorise the work. Repairs were authorised and carried out and further repairs were 
then required and authorised. It isnt unusual for further hidden damage to be identified when 
repairs are undertaken. 
Ive seen the engineers report and it doesnt identify any pre-existing damage on the van. 
And I think the amount of damage to his car Mr G has described made it unlikely that just a 
mark was left on the van. So I think it was reasonable for RSA to rely upon the expert 
engineers report. 
Mr G thought dashcam footage from the van would show that there had been pre-existing 
damage, but the vans owner said this wasnt in operation at the time. RSA is required to rely 
on a civil standard of proof. Mr G accepts that he hit the van in the rear and caused damage. 
But if Mr G thinks cross-examination in a court may support his view, then this may be 
something he may want to pursue at his own cost. 
Mr G said his photographs taken at the time showed that the vans damage was pre-existing 
as there was dirt and rust present. Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how 
damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, 
the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine 
whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and whether it can 
justify its decision about repairs.
In this case, I can see that RSA considered the photographs after Mr G complained. It said 
the damage to the door was consistent with the other damage caused. It thought the 
damage didnt look old. So I think it considered Mr Gs evidence and justified its decision to 
pay for the vans repairs. Mr G still had a fault claim on his record regardless of the amount 
RSA paid out. 
RSA didnt tell Mr G at the time that the claim would be recorded as a fault. It did tell him that 
it would deal with the other drivers claim if one was made. But it didnt tell him it had settled 
the claim. This could have caused Mr G harm as he would have to declare incidents to future 
insurers, but I cant see that he has raised this as a concern. 
From what I can see, RSA is now dealing with the other drivers personal injuries claim. I can 
understand that Mr G feels this may be fraudulent or exaggerated. But, as Ive said above, RSA is entitled to settle a claim as it sees fit. Its already told Mr G that the amount of 
damage caused doesnt support his claim that no injuries were caused. But RSA wont want 
to pay out a claim which isnt supported by medical evidence. 
RSA paid Mr G £100 compensation for not communicating sufficiently with him. And I think 
thats in keeping with our published guidance, so its fair and reasonable. I think its for Mr G 
to decide whether or not he wants to accept its offer.
Putting things right
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mr G £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service, as its offered to do.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman