DRN-3200733
The complaint
Mr D complains about the premium AXA PPP Healthcare Limited quoted for renewal of his 
private health insurance cover.
What happened
Mr D had private health insurance with AXA for several years. In 2008 he moved abroad and 
his policy was changed to a global health plan. Mr D says at the time the premium was 
competitive.
At the 2019 policy renewal he complained to AXA about the increase in premiums. He said 
hed found a report about average international private medical insurance inflation which 
showed premiums had on average increased by about 7% whereas his premium had 
increased by about 14.5%. Hed only made one claim so he queried why his premium was 
much higher. Mr D asked AXA for a projection of his future yearly premiums.
AXA said:
At the 2019 renewal discussions with Mr Ds broker it had offered an additional 
discount of 7% and on further review offered another discount, which it detailed.
It reviewed premiums each year and took into account a range of factors, including 
age and inflation, and priced policies according to risk. All its policyholders were 
subject to yearly price increases due to those factors.
The premium increase was applied at renewal whether or not a policyholder had 
claimed on the policy. But claims made limited the amount of discount.
It couldnt comment on future premiums for Mr Ds policy. Renewal premiums were 
sent about 30 days before policy renewal for Mr D to consider. 
Mr D complained to us. In summary he said:
He was unhappy about the increase in his premium and AXA wasnt clear how it 
calculated the premium.
AXA should give a projection of future premiums, like some other insurers. He sent 
his future projections of premiums he thought he might have had to pay on his AXA 
policy if the increase had continued at the same percentage. He said only wealthy 
policyholders could pay such premiums but leaving a policy meant pre-existing 
medical conditions werent covered.
Hed changed his policy to another insurer who could give him future premiums 
projection. But that insurer had excluded cover for his pre-existing medical condition, 
which AXA had covered, so hed have to pay for any future treatment for that 
condition.
He wants AXA to uphold his complaint.
Our investigator said AXA had acted reasonably and had treated Mr D in line with how it 
treated other customers in the same circumstances.
Mr D disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He gave detailed responses but his 
main additional points are:
He hadnt seen any comparison information about the premium so didnt know if hed 
been treated the same as other policyholders.
He thought his premium has been calculated on an individual basis and priced to 
encourage him to leave now he was older with an increased chance of illness.
When he changed his policy to global cover AXA was reluctant to cover his newly 
diagnosed medical condition even though he was already insured by AXA, which he 
said was an important point.
Before I made a decision I asked  AXA to provide some further information which Ill refer to 
in my findings below
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds now raised that when he changed his type of policy AXA initially didnt want to cover 
his newly diagnosed medical condition even though it already insured him. I cant see Mr D 
previously raised that issue as a complaint with AXA and its not a matter its included in its 
final response letter to Mr Ds complaint. I understand that after discussion with Mr Ds 
broker ultimately AXA did agree to cover the condition so there was no disadvantage to him. 
But if Mr D wants to pursue that issue hell need to raise it as a separate complaint with AXA. 
If the parties cant reach agreement on the issue wed have to consider if we could look at 
the complaint given the time passed since that event happened. The issue doesnt make a 
difference to the outcome of this decision.
This decision is about whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably in its pricing of Mr Ds 
premium.
Its for an insurer to decide what risks it wants to cover and what premium to charge to cover 
a certain risk. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) doesnt regulate on the prices insurers 
charge or the methods an insurer might use to calculate a price. So we wont usually make 
any judgements about the way an insurer chooses to assess risk, the risk assessments it 
makes, or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk. There are aspects of price that we 
will look into further, as our investigator detailed, but theres no evidence those issues are 
relevant to Mr Ds complaint.
We can consider whether Mr D has been treated fairly and consistently with AXAs other 
customers who have the same circumstances. 
AXA has already told Mr D thered be a premium increase at renewal whether or not a 
policyholder had claimed on the policy. 
Ive asked AXA how it calculated Mr Ds premium and its provided me with information to 
explain the calculation. I know Mr D will be disappointed I cant send him the details about 
the calculation but as its confidential business sensitive information I cant provide Mr D with 
the information. Im satisfied that AXAs customers in the same circumstances as Mr D 
would have been charged a similar premium. Ive seen no evidence that AXA individually 
targeted Mr D and priced the premium to encourage him to leave the policy, as he 
suggested. I think AXA had treated Mr D fairly.
AXA wouldnt give Mr D a projection of future premiums hed have to pay on the policy. 
Although Mr D says some other insurers provide that information, whether to do so or not is 
a business decision for AXA to make and I cant tell it that it must provide projections.
From what Mr D says AXA not providing projections about future premiums was the main 
reason he moved insurer, and thats a decision hes free to make. I appreciate hes now 
bought insurance that doesnt cover his pre-existing condition but what cover he bought at what price was his decision when changing to another insurer. I cant reasonably say AXA 
has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman