DRN-4092094
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain about the settlement offered by esure Insurance Limited (esure) 
under their home insurance policy for the loss of a ring.
Any reference to esure in this decision includes their agents.
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S had a home insurance policy with esure. Under the policy they included a 
ring as a specified (high value) item at a valuation of £8,500. In October 2022 Mrs S and Mr 
S lost the ring, so they contacted esure to tell them about the loss and make a claim. esure 
offered a settlement of £8,500 (being the value specified for the ring under the policy).
However, Mrs S and Mr S werent happy with esures settlement offer as they believed the 
true value of the ring (so what it would cost them to replace it on a like-for-like basis) was 
significantly higher than the £8,500 offered by esure. The ring was purchased for £8,500 but 
they thought its current value was around £15,000 to £16,000. Unhappy at esures offer Mrs 
S and Mr S complained.
 
esure didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said they understood Mrs S 
and Mr Ss frustration. But their settlement offer was based on the figure provided by Mrs S 
and Mr S when they took out the policy and included the ring as a specified (high value) 
item. As that was the value placed on the ring by Mrs S and Mr S, esure couldnt offer a 
settlement greater than the sum insured.
Mrs S and Mr S then complained to this service. They were unhappy that esures settlement 
offer didnt cover what they considered the cost of purchasing a new ring. They wanted 
esure to increase their settlement offer ,as they believed the policy should operate based on 
a like-for-like replacement.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the policy set out that the most it 
would pay for a specified item would be the sum insured for that specified item. So, esure 
had offered a settlement in line with the policy limit and wasnt unreasonable. And it was up 
to Mrs S and Mr S to ensure the specified item figure for the ring reflected an up-to-date 
valuation. As esure werent applying the policy excess to the settlement, Mrs S and Mr S 
would receive the full amount insured.
Mrs S and Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They still thought the settlement offered by esure wasnt enough for them to 
replace the ring as new.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether esure have acted fairly towards Mrs S and Mr S.
The main issue in Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint is the value of the settlement offered 
by esure for their ring. Mrs S and Mr S say it isnt sufficient to enable them to cover 
the cost of purchasing a replacement ring. They think the policy should operate on a 
like-for-like bases and they want esure to increase their settlement offer. esure say 
the ring was included as a specified (high value) item under the policy, at a valuation 
of £8,500. So, thats the maximum amount they can offer as a settlement. Having 
considered both views carefully, Ive concluded esure have acted in line with the 
policy terms and conditions in making a settlement offer in line with the sum specified 
under the policy for the ring. I know this will be disappointing to Mrs S and Mr S, so Ill 
explain why Ive come to this view.
Ive first looked at the most recent Policy Schedule issued under the policy before the 
loss of the ring. It lists a total of £17,500 for specified items (including the ring at a 
sum insured of £8,500. So, the sum insured for the ring is clear. Ive also noted the 
following statement at the start of the Policy Statement (my emphasis):
What you need to do now
Please check this document very carefully. It records the information you gave 
us. You have a duty to take reasonable care to ensure the information 
provided or confirmed to us before you enter into, vary or renew your Policy is 
accurate and not misleading. This duty includes a requirement to ensure that 
your household goods, high risk items, personal possessions and specified 
items are insured for the full replacement cost as new at all times
Similar wording is set out in the policy terms and conditions, under a heading 
General terms and conditions which apply to your policy. 
I think makes it clear that when taking out the policy (and at subsequent renewals)  
the onus would have been on Mrs S and Mr S to provide all the relevant information 
required in order for esure to assess whether to offer cover under the policy, as well 
as the terms and conditions of that cover (including the premium to be charged for the 
policy). Figures for sums assured would be part of that information, and the onus 
would be on Mrs S and Mr S to provide information that was accurate and complete. 
So, it would be reasonable to expect them to have considered carefully what sums 
assured figures to provide. That would include the Specified Items.
The policy terms and conditions also make it clear, under the Specified items section, 
that:
It is important that You read Your Schedule and the General Terms, 
conditions and Exclusions that apply to the Policy. We will only pay up to the 
Specified item limit as shown in your Schedule.
I think this makes it clear that esures liability for claims in respect of specified items 
(including the ring) is limited to the amount set out in the Policy Schedule (£8,500).
Taking these points together, Ive concluded esure have acted fairly and reasonably 
in applying the policy terms and conditions in offering a settlement of £8,500 (the sum 
insured) for Mrs S and Mr Ss ring.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs S and Mr Ss 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman