DRN-2354192
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has unfairly declined 
their home insurance claim for storm damage. 
What happened
At the start of 2020, whilst some renovations were being undertaken at Mr and Mrs Ts 
home, a ceiling was replaced as it was about to collapse due to water ingress. Despite 
replacing the ceiling, it still continued to show signs of water ingress. The contractor that was 
carrying out the work thought the damage to the ceiling may be being caused by a leak from 
the flat roof above so he erected some scaffolding on the outside of the house so it could be 
inspected. Having done so the contractor recommended that the whole of the felt on the flat 
roof should be replaced. 
At the end of February, Mr and Mrs T contacted Lloyds to register a claim for storm damage 
to their home. They said to Lloyds that they thought water couldve been getting into their 
home through the seams in the felt. And they said they would like to claim for the cost of 
repairing the roof and the resultant water damage.
Lloyds checked the weather conditions from around the time the damage was noted and 
saw that storm conditions (as defined by the policy) had been present on occasions. So, it 
agreed to appoint a surveyor to inspect and report on the damage. The scaffolding was still 
present when the surveyor attended but he didnt use it, instead using a camera on an 
extended pole to take photographs of the flat roof.  
The surveyor thought the roof was in good condition although the adjoining neighbours roof 
wasnt. She thought the internal damage had been caused by an unknown defect. Lloyds 
reviewed the report the surveyor produced and noted that it said the flat roof was in good 
condition and that there was no sign of damage to the felt which, the surveyor noted, might 
be because when it had been replaced a number of years ago, the contractor had put a new 
layer of felt over the old although this couldnt be confirmed. The surveyor found no evidence 
of any damage which couldve been caused by a one-off storm. Rather the evidence pointed 
to rainwater ingress over time. 
Based on the surveyors report and photographs, Lloyds declined Mr and Mrs Ts claim. It 
said that there was no evidence that the damage had been caused by one of the perils 
covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs T complained to Lloyds but it didnt change its mind about their claim so they 
made a complaint to this service. They said thered been no sign of any water ingress before 
the bad storms in January and February. They also said they had since been advised to 
replace the felt with fibreglass which should have a longer lifespan. And they said a roofing 
contractor had since advised them that the water ingress was due to the storm. 
Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt recommend it was upheld as he didnt 
think Lloyds had unreasonably declined the claim. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with our 
investigators findings and said he was biased towards Lloyds and that this service hadnt 
acted in an independent, fair and impartial manner. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it was then 
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the 
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, storm, escape of water, accidental 
damage etc.  is covered. If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming 
for is caused by one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the 
insurer can rely one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. 
Mr and Mrs Ts policy covers them for loss or damage to their buildings caused by a storm. 
In order for Lloyds to accept Mr and Mrs Ts claim for storm damage to the roof of their home 
and their internal ceilings it must be shown that any damage being claimed for is the result of 
a single storm event. The policy defines what is meant by a storm: A period of violent 
weather defined as: strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph, sometimes accompanied by 
rainWe will take into consideration the condition of your home. A storm can highlight 
damage rather than cause it and damage that happens gradually through wear and tear due 
to lack of maintenance is not covered
This service has a well-established approach to dealing with complaints about declined 
storm claims. When we look at such complaints we ask three questions: 
1. do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened?
2. is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all three questions is yes then the complaint is likely to be upheld. But if the 
answer to any of them is no then the complaint wont succeed. 
Lloyds agree  and Ive seen the weather report myself  that on or around the time the 
damage was noted there were storm conditions in the locality of Mr and Mrs Ts home. So, 
the answer to the first question is yes. 
A well-maintained home is unlikely to be damaged by storms of the type we see in this 
country. But in so far as storms can cause damage, I think the damage reported by Mr and 
Mrs T is of the type a storm can cause. So, I think the answer to question 2 is a yes as well. 
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs T I cant fairly say the answer to question 3 should be a yes. I 
understand their strength of feeling about the claim but, taking all the circumstances into 
account, I cant reasonably say that the available evidence allows me to fairly conclude the 
storm conditions were the main cause of the damage to their home. Ill explain why. 
I can see that the roof to Mr and Mrs Ts home is a flat one covered entirely by felt. I have no 
reason to doubt that they had the roof replaced about seven years ago or that they take care 
to maintain their home. Typically felt roofs have a lifespan of about 10 years or so. The 
photographs taken by Lloyds surveyor show the roof in its entirety (with no blind spots) and, 
like the surveyor, I cant see any signs of obvious degradation or wear. I can see that Mr and 
Mrs Ts house is semi-detached and the roof of their next-door neighbour is in a poor 
condition. The contractor that was carrying out the renovations to Mr and Mrs Ts home at the start of 
the year recommended that the felt be completely replaced. Mr and Mrs T have provided us 
with his detailed quote and I note he says the works would include: remove decking boards 
to entire roof area, and fit new fillet timbers to existing joists to provide a more suitable run 
towards the gutter areas, and Cover the parapet walls with 12m plywood boards, providing 
a more suitable base for future felt. From these comments its reasonable to think that the 
existing run towards the gutters wasnt particularly suitable (and could perhaps mean water 
was pooling on the roof), or that the existing base for the felt was particularly suitable. This 
sort of damage is more associated with workmanship issues. It isnt the type of damage 
thats caused by a storm. 
The internal photographs show that there was water damage to the ceiling, both before and 
after it was replaced. From that, its reasonable to assume (particularly given the internal 
ceiling was stripped back to the joists and the boarding) that water mustve been getting in 
from the roof. 
That it was though doesnt appear  from the evidence Ive seen  to be as a consequence 
of the storm. I dont doubt Mr and Mrs T when they say there was no water damage before 
the storms in February. But I think the storm highlighted rather than caused the issues with 
the flat roof. I cant ignore the contractors comments, nor can I ignore the photographs of 
the roof which show the felt appears undamaged. It seems that despite appearing 
undamaged, the run to the gutters wasnt suitable, neither was the base to which the felt was 
attached. In the absence of any visible storm damage I think its most likely water was 
getting in because of one or both of these two issues. 
So, I dont think that Lloyds has unreasonably declined Mr and Mrs Ts claim. Their roof was 
letting in water but not, it seems, because it was damaged in a storm or any of the other 
perils in the policy. Rather it appears the storm highlighted the issues that existed and which, 
given time, were likely to fail in the reasonably near future given the average lifespan of a flat 
roof. So, I dont think Lloyds unfairly attributed the damage to an unknown defect. Insurers 
arent obliged  when they think the damage isnt covered - to work out what is actually 
causing it. Its the policyholders duty to show the damage they are claiming for is covered by 
the policy and I dont think Mr and Mrs T have been able to do so here. 
I know that Mr and Mrs T think the surveyors failure to go up on the roof to inspect it was 
unsatisfactory. Im unable to agree. The method used by the surveyor to assess the damage 
is one surveyors typically use. They are used to assessing insurance claims and I dont think 
the way Lloyds surveyor carried out his inspection was unreasonable. The photographs 
taken covered the entire roof area. 
Mr and Mrs Ts policy also includes optional additional accidental damage cover. But its a 
policy requirement that such damage is caused suddenly by an outside force. But the 
evidence suggests the damage was ongoing over a period of time, not caused suddenly. So, 
I dont think Lloyds unfairly declined to accept liability under this aspect of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs T eventually had their roof replaced by a different contractor in September 2020. 
Whilst I note his estimate states the quote is to replace the roof due to storm damage it was 
made about 8 months after the damage was said to have occurred. I think that the roofs 
condition would have changed in the meantime, even in a minor way. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to accept this single statement about what caused it without any accompanying 
qualifying comment and ignore what the surveyor and Mr and Mrs Ts contractor said around 
the time the claim was made. Mr and Mrs T say that they wouldve expected another independent surveyor to have been 
appointed to produce a more professional report. I cant require Lloyds to appoint another 
surveyor when I havent found its behaved unfairly or unreasonably. I cant agree that the 
report produced was unprofessional and without there being any contemporaneous evidence 
indicating that that damage might have been caused by a storm I cant reasonably require 
another report to carried out. 
Finally, I have no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs Ts claim was genuinely made. Unfortunately 
for them it wasnt accepted because the damage wasnt covered by the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2021. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman