DRN-3690932
The complaint
Mr U complains Revolut Ltd (Revolut) restricted his account and withheld the funds in it, 
causing him substantive financial loss. 
What happened
In January 2020, Revolut restricted Mr Us account. It asked Mr U to upload documents 
through its App to show his proof of entitlement to them. 
Revolut then contacted Mr U in early March 2020 through its in-app chat facility. Revoluts 
agent apologised for the delay and requested more information from Mr U. Revolut says it 
did this to meet its legal and regulatory obligations  as it needed to validate the source of 
funds coming into the account.
Mr U said he had already provided enough information to satisfy Revoluts enquiry and didnt 
need to do anymore. Amongst other things, Revolut explained it needed the missing bank 
statement which showed Mr U receiving a payment from the sale of property, which he said 
funded the transfers into his account.  
Mr U argued Revolut had no legal basis to ask for this information. Revoluts agent explained 
it needed this information to positively verify Mr Us account. Revolut then unblocked Mr Us 
account so he could make outgoing transactions, but he was told any incoming payments 
would result in the account being blocked again. 
Mr U said Revoluts actions had cost him financial losses of around 5,000 euros  especially 
as he used his account to get favourable exchange rates on money transfers. 
Unhappy with Revoluts actions, Mr U referred his complaint to this service. Im sorry about 
how long Mr U had to wait for his complaint to be looked into by an Investigator  I assure 
Mr U were continuously working on reducing our queues. 
Whilst awaiting allocation to an Investigator, Revolut made a proactive offer to Mr U to settle 
his complaint. It offered him £20, but Mr U did not accept this. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Us complaint, and in summary they found: 
- Revolut has legal and regulatory obligations it must follow, and this sometimes 
means it needs to carry out reviews of its customers accounts. Financial firms have 
the discretion to carry out these reviews
- As a regulated firm, Revolut can ask Mr U how he uses its products. Its not generally 
for our service to say what Revolut should accept to satisfy its review
- Revolt accept its own investigation was delayed. But its unlikely Mr U would have 
given Revolut the information it required, so its not responsible for the losses Mr U 
says he suffered
Mr U did not agree with what our Investigator said. He maintained Revolut had acted 
unlawfully and wanted copies of the in-app chat he had with its agent. Our Investigator 
provided this to Mr U. 
Mr U, who isnt a UK national, then asked for the EU regulation Revolut relied on to take the 
actions it did. Mr U maintained the official contract of property sale was, in of itself, enough 
to have satisfied Revoluts enquiry. 
Mr U then asked for an Ombudsman to get in touch with him. It follows that I must now 
decide this matter.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Us complaint. I note Mr U feels strongly 
about this, and no doubt my decision will disappoint him  so, Ill explain why. 
Financial business in the UK, like Revolut, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks 
need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
So, I dont think Revolut did anything wrong, in line with obligations placed on it as a UK 
regulated firm, by restricting Mr Us account while it carried out a review.
It's also not uncommon for these firms to ask its customers for information and evidence 
about the funds, in order to fulfil its legal and regulatory obligations. So, I think Revolut acted 
fairly  and in line with obligations placed on it  when it asked Mr U for specific information 
about the source of funds in his account. 
Mr U uploaded documents he feels should have been enough to satisfy Revoluts 
investigation. But he didnt hear from them for several weeks that it needed more. Revolt 
accept it caused a delay. 
Ordinarily, I would consider compensation for any trouble and upset undue delays may have 
caused. But when Revolut did contact Mr U in March 2020, it asked for further information 
about the funds. Specifically it wanted to see that they did emanate from the sale of a 
property as Mr U asserts. The other documents hed previously provided did not show the 
amount he says the property was sold for enter the account. 
As Mr U said the funds - which were larger than his previous activity - were from the sale of 
a property, I think its reasonable Revolut asked him for more information showing this. That 
means Im satisfied Revolut did nothing wrong by asking for this additional information. 
As Mr U did not agree to send this information - and I can understand his reasons for this  I 
dont think the delay in Revoluts investigation had any material impact on him getting access 
to his account any sooner. I say that because even if Revolut had asked for this information 
earlier, Mr U would not have given it for the same reasons. So any trouble and upset caused 
by the delay would not have been alleviated by Revolut acting in a timelier manner. 
Mr U says he suffered substantive financial loss. From what Ive seen he didnt have the 
large value of sums he says he did at the time of the restriction. But in any case, as Revolut 
didnt do anything wrong by taking the actions it did, I wouldnt find it needed to compensate 
Mr U for any financial loss. I note Revolut allowed Mr U to move any funds held in his account in early March 2020 
without Mr U giving the information it asked for. I think this is more than reasonable. 
I appreciate Mr Us asked for the specific legislation Revolut relied upon to review his 
account and ask for information about the source of funds. The regulator sets regulations 
which financial businesses must comply with  and most of the legislations will be covered 
by this. 
Regulated businesses are required to comply with a wide range of law and regulation, 
including the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) Rulebook, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook and various pieces of primary and secondary legislations. Most of 
these regulatory requirements apply to all UK regulated businesses, and Revolut is subject 
to these legal and regulatory requirements.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman