DRN-4151417
The complaint
P, a limited company complains that Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard delayed 
processing a customers payment, which in turn led to a chargeback by Ps customer.
P wants Barclaycard to refund the money it took and pay compensation for the stress 
caused and damage to Ps reputation. 
What happened
P has a merchant processing agreement with Barclaycard. On Friday 19 August 2022, P 
took a customers card payment. As P would usually receive payment by the next working 
day, P arranged to deliver the customers order on Tuesday 23 August 2022.
Around 23 August 2022, P noticed it hadnt received the payment into its account and 
contacted Barclaycard. Barclaycard agrees that it shouldve checked its system to find out 
when Ps terminal last connected and advised P to carry out a test sale and end of day 
reading. This wouldve then forced the transaction for processing. Barclaycard says the 
stored transaction was forced through the next day - 24 August 2022. 
Despite P copying its customer into emails with Barclaycard to try and explain what had 
happened and arrange delivery of the goods, Ps customer had involved the police and 
wouldnt respond. Ps customer later raised a chargeback which meant Barclaycard debited 
Ps account. 
The investigator agreed that when P contacted Barclaycard about the transaction, 
Barclaycard should have told P to carry out end of day banking to push the payment 
through. The investigator was satisfied that Barclaycard corrected the problem the next day 
so the funds were then received by P. 
Barclaycard had already paid P £50 to apologise for the misinformation it gave to P. The 
investigator thought an additional compensation payment of £150 was fair and Barclaycard 
agreed. The investigator didnt think Barclaycard should refund the chargeback as it couldnt 
be held liable for the fact Ps customer overreacted and involved the police.
P disagrees with the investigation outcome and says Barclaycard admitted its mistake and 
that the processing of the payment took 7 days not the contractually agreed 24 to 48 hours. 
P points out that its customer blamed P for not ordering the goods as the customer had seen 
money leave their account but not arrive with P until seven days later. P is very unhappy with 
the length of time it has taken Barclaycard to deal with its complaint.  
P says Barclaycard didnt carry out the chargeback fairly as it didnt receive any written 
warning and wasnt given the chance to defend the claim before the money was taken. As 
this was a new complaint point, the investigator asked Barclaycard for evidence that it sent P 
notice of the chargeback. As the notice was sent to P at their old address, the investigator 
asked Barclaycard to confirm whether P had updated its address prior to sending the 
chargeback notice. Barclaycard said it had no record of P changing its address before it sent 
the chargeback notice and no letter had been returned as undelivered.
P remains very unhappy with the whole process and says Barclaycard breached the terms of 
its account, leaving P thousands of pounds in debt through no fault of its own. P says this 
has nothing to do with a change of address.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Ps complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me. 
To make sure that payments are received on time, Barclaycards website and merchant 
processing guide recommend that merchants use their card machine to bank payments at 
the end of every day. Although P says it carried out end of day banking on Friday 19 August, 
Barclaycard doesnt have any record of this taking place and P hasnt provided a copy of the 
end of day receipt. Without this evidence, it makes it difficult for me to find that Barclaycard 
was at fault for the payment not reaching Ps account by Monday 22 August as expected. 
I appreciate P says Barclaycard has admitted that the payment processing was delayed due 
to a system error but I dont agree. Instead, Barclaycard said that for reasons unknown, the 
transaction stored in the terminal which can happen on occasions. Its for this reason why 
the end of day banking process is so important. 
P says that it spoke to Barclaycard about the transaction on Tuesday 23 August 2022, so 
this appears to have been the first time Barclaycard was made aware of a problem. 
Barclaycard told P that a manual authorisation would need to be completed which could take 
10 days. Instead, Barclaycard should have checked its systems to see when Ps system last 
connected and then told P to carry out a test sale and end of day reading. This would have 
forced the transaction for processing  as happened on 24 August 2022. 
I agree that Barclaycard made a mistake when it first spoke to P about the transaction but I 
dont consider its failure to provide the correct information lead directly to Ps customer 
cancelling the order and raising a chargeback. This is because from what P has told us, its 
customer refused to take calls and emails from the point after it had spoken to Barclaycard 
on 23 August and had already cancelled the order. So, even if Barclaycard had given P the 
correct information that day, P would have struggled to explain this to its customer. 
Even if I had found that Barclaycard made a mistake with the original processing of the 
transaction, it wouldnt change the outcome of this complaint because I dont consider it was 
reasonably foreseeable that Ps customer would move so quickly to cancel the order and 
involve the police. Or that Ps customer would refuse all contact so that delivery of the goods 
couldnt be arranged to take place just a few days late. 
I appreciate P thinks Barclaycard debited its account without its permission but the merchant 
terms set out what happens in the event of a chargeback. If a merchant must pay 
Barclaycard back for a chargeback  as happened here  Barclaycard has the right to 
deduct the amount from the merchants bank account. Barclaycard has also provided a copy 
of a letter addressed to P notifying it about the chargeback. This was sent to the address 
Barclaycard held on file for P and it has no record of the letter being returned as undelivered. 
So, based on the evidence Ive been given, I dont have reason to find that Barclaycard 
didnt follow the chargeback process. 
Overall, I consider the investigators recommendation that Barclaycard pay P a further £150 is a fair way to resolve this complaint. It recognises the inconvenience caused to P when it 
had to contact Barclaycard more than it otherwise should have. 
For the reasons outlined above, I dont require Barclaycard to refund the amount of the 
chargeback or pay more compensation than Ive directed it to pay below. I appreciate that 
given the financial impact on P; my decision is likely to be very disappointing. 
Putting things right
To put things right Barclaycard should pay P £150. For the avoidance of doubt, this in 
addition to the £50 Barclaycard has already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank Plc trading as 
Barclaycard to make the payment outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman