DRN-2804411
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC treated them unfairly when their 
mortgage matured.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out an interest only mortgage with Barclays in 2010. The term of the 
mortgage was due to expire in December 2019. 
Mr and Mrs Ps broker contacted Barclays in December 2019 regarding a rate switch 
application. But Barclays declined the application because the mortgage was close to 
maturity. And they told the broker that Mr and Mrs P would need to contact the maturities 
team.
Mr and Mrs P contacted Barclays. They explained they wanted to extend the term of the 
mortgage. But they were told that their application would not meet Barclays affordability 
criteria. And it was suggested that they should look to re-mortgage elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs P subsequently obtained a mortgage with another lender and redeemed their 
mortgage with Barclays. But in the period between the mortgage maturing and being 
redeemed they received correspondence from Barclays inferring that it might seek a 
possession order for their property.
Mr and Mrs P complained to Barclays. But Barclays said it had handled the maturity of the 
mortgage correctly so it didnt uphold the complaint.
Our investigator felt that Barclays should have done more. She said, in summary, that under 
the relevant rules Barclays had the option of disregarding an affordability assessment. And 
she felt that if Barclays had allowed Mr and Mrs P to make an application it might have 
concluded that it was in Mr and Mrs Ps best interests to extend the mortgage. Its failure to 
do this had left Mr and Mrs P with the impression that their home might be repossessed. 
Our investigator recommended that Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs P £500 compensation 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. But Barclays doesnt agree, and so the 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator, and for the same reasons. 
I can see from the information provided to me that Barclays mortgage adviser looked at 
extending the mortgage on an interest only basis for 5 years (employed income) and on a 
repayment basis for 10 years (retirement income) but said that neither option met Barclays 
affordability criteria. So he suggested that they should look at re-mortgaging elsewhere. 
It is correct to say that, following the Mortgage Market Review (MMR) carried out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in 2014, lenders are required in most circumstances to carry out 
rigorous affordability assessments. And, in general terms, I dont think it is wrong for a lender 
to take account of the affordability of a mortgage after retirement. However, the relevant 
rules do contain transitional provisions that allow lenders to disregard the outcome of an 
affordability assessment in certain circumstances where to do so would be in the best 
interests of the consumers. As Mr and Mrs P took out their mortgage before April 2014 and 
havent borrowed anything more since then, Im persuaded that the transitional provisions 
would apply in this case. 
I agree with our investigator that, if Barclays had allowed Mr and Mrs P to make an 
application, and had considered that application in accordance with the transitional 
provisions, it is likely it would have concluded that it was in their best interests to disapply the 
affordability assessment and allow them to extend the term of their mortgage. Mr P has 
supplied this service with a copy of a letter he sent to Barclays in December 2019 setting out 
a proposal to repay the full mortgage over a four year period. And Mr and Mrs P say, and I 
accept, that they had not missed any payments on their mortgage to date.. So, from the 
evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that its likely the monthly mortgage payments would have 
continued to be affordable for Mr and Mrs P, and that they did have a plan to repay the 
borrowing, and were not simply seeking to extend it indefinitely. 
I appreciate that Barclays adviser believed he was saving Mr and Mrs P the time and trouble 
of making an application when he said that their application would be turned down. But Im 
persuaded that he made an error when he did so, as he didnt consider the effect of the 
transitional provisions. And Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs P were caused trouble and upset 
due to this. In particular they say, and I accept, that the correspondence they received from 
Barclays gave them the impression that it might take action to repossess their property.
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs P were able to find a new mortgage with another lender, so I cant now direct 
Barclays to extend the term of the mortgage to put things right. Our investigator has 
suggested that Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs P £500 to compensate them for the trouble 
and upset they have experienced. And, having carefully considered the circumstances, I 
agree.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr and 
Mrs P £500.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman