DRN-3362852
The complaint
Mr F has complained, through his representative, about the shares he bought through
Templeton Securities Limited (an appointed representative of Alexander David
Securities Limited). The representative has said that the firms failings resulted in Mr F
investing in shares which were unsuitable.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 23 February 2022. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it were set 
out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant parts of the decision below, and it forms part of 
this final decision. 
The provisional decision said:
My understanding is that Mr F was advised by an unauthorised firm to open a SIPP
and transfer his existing personal pension into it. The total amount transferred into the
SIPP was approximately £67,000. My understanding is that Templeton Securities
Limited wasnt involved in the advice given to Mr F to switch his pensions to the SIPP.
Mr F was then persuaded by another unregulated firm to open an account with Templeton
Securities. He completed an application form on 9 May 2014 for a Private Client Portfolio
account. At the time Mr F was in his mid-fifties, married, self-employed, and he was
earning approximately £13,000 a year. His intended retirement age was 65.
On the same date (9 May 2014), Mr F signed a letter of authority for the unregulated firm
allowing it to obtain information about his pension.
When Mr F opened the account he completed a Private Client Portfolio Agreement and 
Application Booklet. These said, amongst other things:
What to expect as a client of Templeton Securities
We understand that individual client investment needs vary with differing goals and as an
independent stockbroker, Templeton Securities aim is to provide the best private client
investment service with clarity and vision whilst tailoring our advice to suit individual client
needs.
To understand your investment requirements and to create your personal portfolio, we will
need to know the details of your financial background and your plans for the future which will
enable us to advise a tailored solution to suit your aims and objectives. It is therefore 
imperative that you fully complete this Application as failure to do so may mean that we are 
unable to affect a suitable portfolio or offer an appropriate service.
We are required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 {"FSMA") to 
provide you with suitable investment advice and services, based on the information you 
provide to us about your circumstances. By completing this form in its entirety, you will 
enable us to fully comply with the requirements of this Act.
Under the section Important Financial Information it said:
In order for us to properly assess your ability to bear investment risks in relation to the 
services we provide, we need to understand the composition of your assets and 
liabilities, and income and expenditure. We are required to take this into account when 
assessing the suitability of our investment management service we provide...
Please enter details of your total assets and liabilities (Please enter amounts to 
the nearest thousand pounds)
Under a list of asset types including Property, Cash, Investment ISAs, Equity Investments 
and Investment Bonds, only £67,000 was listed under Pension Plans. Mr Fs total assets 
were recorded as £67,000. Mr Fs income was noted as £13,200 a year, and his 
expenditure £13,200.
Under Investment Risk and Objectives it said:
Preferred Level of Portfolio Risk
Please indicate below your preferred level of portfolio risk as part of your overall investment 
strategy.
A tick was placed in the medium and medium/high categories.
The section headed Investment Experience asked what types of investment Mr F had 
traded previously and the box Advisory Broking was ticked. When asked to describe his 
level of experience for various asset classes, the novice category (less than 1 year) was 
ticked for equities, fixed interest and alternative assets. And the intermediate (1-5 years) for 
Funds.
Under Acceptance Form it said, amongst other things:
l/We wish Templeton Securities Limited (Templeton") to advise on a portfolio of investments 
for me in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, a copy of which we have received and 
which I agree to.
The relevant sections of the General Terms and Conditions of Business included:
2 Introduction
2.1 This document contains details of the investment advisory and execution only services 
which Templeton Securities (TEMPLETON) shall provide you with our services in 
accordance with the Client Application Form, and it sets out the obligations and rights 
applying between us and you.
2.2 These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable 
Regulations. The term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by 
the FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any Applicable 
Regulations, the latter will prevail;
3. The services we will provide
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with 
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial 
circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though you 
have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that you are not 
expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction in a non-complex 
financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or product investment 
recommendations. Nothing in our literature or in these Terms & Conditions should be treated 
as a solicitation or recommendation to buy, sell or maintain any product. We will action all 
instructions on an execution-only basis. This means that we are only able to act on the 
instructions that you provide. We cannot give you advice about what instructions you should 
give us. You are responsible for the investment decisions that you make when you engage 
our services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept responsibility on a continuing 
basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio
3.2 If we have agreed to provide you with an advisory service, we accept responsibility for 
advising you as to the merits of any particular investment based on the information 
supplied by you in the TEMPLETON Application Form pertaining to your individual 
circumstances, requirements and objectives. We may provide you with investment advice 
on your request. Information supplied by you, via the TEMPLETON Application Form, 
should be updated as necessary before we give you advice on a particular transaction. If 
you do not inform us of any investment or types of investments, which you do not wish us 
to recommend or purchase for you, we may recommend to you any investments provided 
that we have reasonable grounds for believing that each investment product we do 
recommend is suitable and appropriate for you, in accordance with FCA rules. We do not 
undertake discretionary management of your investments, any investment advice we give 
you is provided on the understanding that we do not accept responsibility on a continuing 
basis for advising on the composition of your portfolio.
3.7 We may, at our discretion, decline to accept any order or instruction from you or 
instigate certain conditions prior to proceeding with your order.
4.9 Specific client instructions
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we will 
execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions.
5. Suitability
5.1 In providing a managed portfolio service or giving investment advice to you, we 
are required by the FCA to obtain the necessary information from you regarding your
knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type ofinvestment 
or service provided to you, your financial situation and your investment objectives in order to 
assess the suitability of our advice and of the transactions to be entered into by us on your 
behalf. In particular, we must obtain from you such information as is necessary for us to 
understand the essential facts about you and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transactions to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:     (a) meets your investment objectives;
(b) is such that you are able to financially bear any related investment risks consistent  
with your investment objectives; and
(c) is such that you have the necessary experience and knowledge in order to    
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of your portfolio.
6. Appropriateness
6.1 In providing services other than investment advice management, we may be subject 
to an obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the 
contemplated product or service for you by determining whether you have the necessary 
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the 
specific type of product or service offered or demanded. In such circumstances, where on 
the basis of information received we consider that the contemplated product or service is 
not appropriate for you, we will provide you with a warning to that effect.
6.4 Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular 
transaction if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that transaction, you 
are not expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-only basis. Where the 
transaction relates to non-complex financial instruments such as shares, bonds and 
UCITS, we will inform you at the time that we will execute your order on that basis and we 
will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or appropriate for you. Please 
note therefore, that you will not benefit from the protection of the relevant FCA Rules 
requiring us to assess the suitability or appropriateness of the transaction for you.
The Terms definitions provided Execution-Only means that we act on your instructions 
and offer no advice as to whether such an investment is suitable for you.
A total of £66,757 was transferred into the account on 20 May 2014.
Templeton sent a letter to Mr F on that same date - 20 May 2014. Amongst other things it 
said:
"We are required to classify each of our clients into one of three categories; Retail Client, 
Professional Client or Eligible Counterparty. Based on the information available to us, we 
have classified you as a Retail Client in respect of all the services we make available to 
you. This means you are within the category of clients who receive the highest level of 
protection under the regulator system.
We note your interest in high risk products, investments in smaller companies, in 
particular 'Penny Shares' and investments that are not readily realisable e.g. small 
unquoted companies involve a high risk that all or part of your investment may be lost. 
You may also have difficulty in selling these shares at a reasonable price and in some 
circumstances you may not be able to sell at any price. There can be a big difference 
between the buying and selling price and if they have to be sold immediately, you may get 
back much less than you paid for them.
On 21 May 2014 Mr F e-mailed Templeton Securities. The e-mail included:
I wish to invest £33,117.00 in Eligere investments plc (ELI) gxg listed securities with a 
55 pence limit for T3 settlement.
I wish to invest £33,117.00 in Emmit pic (EMT) aim listed securities with a £1.95 limit 
for T1 settlement.Please advise me via e-mail when this has been transacted.
Templeton bought these shares investing £32,828 in Eligere and £32,752 in Emmit 
(after commission and costs). My understanding is that the instruction was prompted 
by the one of the unregulated firms who provided Mr F with the wording for it.
Mr F was paid a sum of approximately £4,000 by one of the unregulated firms which 
he has said was described to him as introductory commission.
The FCA issued a statement about the promotion of shares in EMMIT on 31 October 
2014. It said it had been made aware that individuals were being encouraged to transfer 
money from their work pension schemes into Self-Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) 
and use that money to buy shares in Emmit plc. It said some investors were being offered 
cash back on their investments in Emmit plc of up to 30% of the transfer value, paid by a 
third party, as an incentive to do this. Some investors appeared to have invested 100% of 
their pension assets into Emmit plc shares and could suffer significant financial loss if 
they have done this without fully understanding what they were doing.
Trading of shares in Emmitt plc and Eligere Investments plc was suspended in May 
and June 2015 respectively.
Mr F complained to Alexander David through his representative in January 2020. The 
representative said, in brief, that Templeton knew or ought to have known that it was 
extremely suspicious to receive multiple almost identical instructions to invest in at least 
two non-mainstream companies trading on alternative markets within a short space of 
time. It said if proper enquiries had been made it would have become apparent that    
Mr F didnt understand the potential risks and consequences of making the investments. 
And if they had been pointed out he could have avoided proceeding. It said that it 
should have been clear to Templeton Securities that the nature of the investments 
made were wholly unsuitable for Mr F. And that Templeton shouldnt have permitted the 
investments to be made.
Templeton Securities didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint, and Mr Fs representative referred 
the complaint to us. One of our investigators considered the complaint. He recommended 
that it should be upheld. In summary, he thought that the circumstances of the transaction 
ought to have alerted Templeton Securities that a third party was involved. And that it 
should have been prompted to look into the matter. On doing so, he thought it would have 
discovered that an unauthorised firm was behind the instructions to invest and was giving 
investment advice in breach of s19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Given the clear risks to the consumer, he thought Templeton Securities should 
have exercised its discretion to decline Mr Fs instruction to invest. And if it had done so, 
on weighing up all the factors, he thought it likely Mr F would have chosen not to proceed 
with the investments. The investigator also thought that Mr F would be successful in 
recovering his money through a claim under s27 of FSMA.
Templeton Securities didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said, in summary:
The Ombudsman Service had found in its favour on other complaints that had been 
referred to us with a very similar pattern of circumstances.
Although the Principles stood over the specific COBS Rules, they didnt replace 
them. PRIN was primarily guidance rather than rules.
The findings were supported neither by the contractual terms or the COBS rules.At the time of the transaction there was no indication a third party was involved, and 
it only came to light when the FCA issued its warning in October 2014.
The investigator had said that given the circumstances Templeton Securities should 
have investigated the transaction and then exercised its discretion to decline the 
instruction. He said given its responsibility to treat Mr F fairly and act in his interests, 
Templeton should have explained why it had done so. Templeton said such an  
obligation wasnt within PRIN.
The investigator had found that Mr F would have chosen not to proceed if Templeton 
Securities had intervened. It said this was an easy assumption with hindsight. It said 
the shares werent illiquid, and Mr F was offered a cash incentive to transfer his 
pension. It asked if we had investigated the unregulated firms or the SIPP provider, 
and whether compensation had been sought from those firms.
It had written to Mr F on 11 September 2014 regarding the appropriateness of 
investing in high risk investments. The shares were trading at around 132.50 at that 
time. Mr F therefore had plenty of time to consider his position before the Emmitt 
shares were suspended in May 2015. Mr F should have mitigated his position. 
Whether he was experienced or not, it was common sense for someone to monitor 
their pensions and investments. Mr F wanted to stick with the investments and it saw 
no reason why Mr F should be compensated.
The facts of the court case referred to by the investigator were entirely 
distinguishable from the facts of Mr Fs case. Mr F had approached Templeton 
directly, and there was no arrangement in place with any person who might have 
advised Mr F beforehand.
The investments werent obscure and listed on regulated markets. The trades were 
execution only and fully complied with FCA Rules. The instruction came directly from 
Mr F, he had indicated he was willing to take a high risk and there was no need to 
investigate his instructions. Templeton conducted its business with integrity and paid 
due regard to Mr Fs interests. It didnt agree it had failed to adhere to the regulators 
Principles for Business.
Mr Fs representative provided a further submission on his behalf. Ive taken it into account
in making my provisional decision below. Mr F/his representative (and Alexander David)
have another opportunity to provide any further evidence or arguments that they want to
make following this provisional decision, and having had the opportunity to consider my
provisional findings.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its compulsory
jurisdiction if that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of
one or more listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1R).
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
include advising on investments (article 53 RAO). And arranging deals in investments 
(article 25 RAO). So I can consider the complaint either about advice  or the omission to 
provide advice. Or about arranging the purchase of the shares if it was an execution only 
sale.Ive therefore read and considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
provisionally decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook to take into account the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
               (c)  codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
When evidence is incomplete Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities  
which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is most likely to have happened 
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The firm has referred to other cases considered by Our Service that were resolved at an 
informal stage in our process by our investigators and on the facts as they understood 
them. They werent decided by a final decision issued by an Ombudsman. Ive made my 
decision on Mr Fs case on the basis of what I consider are all the relevant circumstances to 
decide what I consider be fair and reasonable given all the evidence and arguments 
available.
My understanding is that both shares were allowable as per the SIPP Permitted Investment 
document. Although the SIPP provider initially raised doubts about the eligibility of Eligere, 
after further investigation it has confirmed to us that it considers Eligere was a permitted 
investment at the time it was bought.
The documentation and literature that was provided at the time that the Private Client 
Portfolio account was opened clearly described it as providing an advisory service. However, 
whilst the account was advisory, the terms did also provide for Templeton to accept 
execution only instructions in some circumstances.
Templeton Securities has referred to Clause 6.4. Clause 6.4 came under the heading 
Appropriateness. Clause 6.1 said we may be subject to an obligation under Applicable 
Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the contemplated product or service. I 
think this is reference to the requirements under COBS 10 (the regulators Conduct of 
Business Rules). My understanding is the shares bought here werent subject to COBS 
10. But Clause 6.4 went onto say:
Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular 
transaction if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that 
transaction, you are not expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-
only basis. Where the transaction relates to non-complex financial instruments such as 
shares, bonds and UCITS, we will inform you at the time that we will execute your order 
on that basis and we will not be required to ensure that the  transaction is suitable or 
appropriate for you.
And Clause 3.1 provided: 
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with 
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though 
you have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that 
you are not expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction in 
a non- complex financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or product 
investment recommendations. [My emphasis].
The documentation that has been provided doesnt show that Mr F was designated 
as an execution-only client. However Clause 3.1 and 6.4 provided an alternative basis 
for carrying out execution only services as highlighted. And Clauses 3.1 and 4.9 went 
onto say:
You are responsible for the investment decisions that you make when you engage our 
services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept responsibility on a 
continuing basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio
4.9 Specific client instructions
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we 
will execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions..
Given the particular wording of the 21 May 2014 e-mail, I think Templeton Securities was 
entitled to reasonably believe that Mr F wasnt expecting advice about the merits of the 
transaction. It was an order to buy particular shares and at a particular price, on a 
specific settlement basis. I dont think there was anything in the e-mail that suggests that 
Mr F was asking for advice about the merits of the purchases or otherwise suggests that 
Mr F was expecting Templeton to give him advice. I think this is consistent with the 
transaction been driven by the unregulated firm(s). Templeton wasnt therefore accepting 
responsibility for the investment decision executed on an execution only basis as per 
Clause 3.1. And it carried out the instruction as per Clause 4.9.
Clause 6.4 of the terms said that Templeton Securities would write to Mr F where it 
executed a transaction in non-complex financial instruments to inform him it had placed the 
order on that basis. Templeton didnt do this at the time. It says it did write to Mr F on 11 
September 2014 which I will consider further below.
Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. We 
have received a number of complaints against Templeton Securities representing 
Alexander David, about very similar transactions that all happened at around the same 
time.
Its apparent that Templeton Securities received a number of requests to open this type 
of advisory account with it, all within a relatively short period. And very shortly after the 
accounts were opened e-mailed instructions with almost identical wording were sent to 
Templeton Securities asking to invest in these same two shares (and in some cases 
one other share).
On the day that Templeton Securities received Mr Fs e-mail (21 May 2014), it had already 
received a number of e-mails from different investors all with near identical wording. The e- 
mails were sent to the same person at Templeton Securities (who I understand held the 
CF30 function with Alexander David Securities at that time). Templeton 
Securities/Alexander David should have copies of these e-mails on their files. However 
details (to the degree that it is appropriate to provide) of these e-mails can be requested 
from the investigator if required.Templeton Securities primary duty was to implement its clients instructions. But that duty 
wasnt unqualified.
Firstly, it had a broad contractual discretion whether to accept any order or instruction from 
Mr F as provided in Clause 3.7 of the Terms and Conditions. Second, it had an obligation to 
comply with the FCAs rules.
As I have set out above, the accounts Terms and Conditions included:
2.2 These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable 
Regulations. The term Applicable Regulations means:
(a) the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by 
the FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
    (b) the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
    (c) all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any 
Applicable Regulations, the latter will prevail.
So the duty to comply with the FCAs rules was recognised in the Terms and 
Conditions as an overriding duty that prevailed over anything to the contrary in those 
Terms.
The FCA is responsible for consumer protection which it seeks to achieve through 
application of its Rules, including its Principles for Business (PRIN). Templeton 
Securities was providing regulated financial services and was bound by these 
Principles and other Rules. This is consistent with the accounts terms and 
conditions.
As Mr Fs representatives have said, in British Bankers Association v The Financial Services 
Authority & Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
The Principles are best understood as the ever-present substrata to which the specific 
rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to 
reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would be 
fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by 
the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having 
regard to the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever 
formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the 
argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the Principles which I think
are relevant to this complaint. In my view they are Principles 2, 3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with dueskill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care 
to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate 
risk management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests 
of its customers and treat them fairly.
Alexander David has said although the Principles stood over the specific COBS Rules, 
they didnt replace them. And PRIN was primarily guidance rather than rules.
We havent said that the Principles replace the COBS rules. Im obliged to consider the 
Principles and as I set out above this was recognised by the courts in the case British 
Bankers Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011] EWHC 999 
(Admin). That the Principles must always be complied with has also been confirmed by 
Jacob J in Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
WHC 2878 (Admin) at paragraph 134. The Principles are not just guidance but rules in 
their own right and it is established that firms must comply with them, and I have 
considered them in that context. And as I have said above, the duty to comply with the 
FCAs rules was provided in the Terms and Conditions as an overriding duty that 
prevailed over anything to the contrary in those Terms.
Ive therefore considered the FCAs Principles in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint. Ultimately, I need to consider whether in conducting 
this business Templeton Securities complied with these Principles. Ive considered the 
matter in the context of the wider circumstances as I have described in considering 
Templeton Securities obligations; that Templeton was receiving a number of e-mails sent 
to the same person; there was a pattern of remarkably similar worded execution only 
instructions from different clients with SIPP accounts it was being asked to process, in the 
same niche shares, on non-mainstream markets, and within a reasonably short period of 
time.
I think in these circumstances a stockbroker, acting reasonably, ought to have been 
alerted that something unusual and concerning might be going on. In my view, the 
circumstances ought to have been a trigger for Templeton Securities to intervene in 
the normal processing of the transaction and take a closer look behind it.
If it had done so, it would have identified that the instructions were coming 
from ordinary retail customers who:
had all recently opened advisory accounts and yet within a short period of 
time from opening were all sending execution only instructions to make their 
first investment;
were investing the majority of the money in their SIPP in these same 
niche shares presenting significant risks; they werent the type of 
investments that you would normally expect to form the significant part of 
anyones pension provision;
had sent almost identically worded instructions to invest in the same niche 
shares, suggesting these retail consumers may be being systematically 
advised by someone to buy these shares and on how to go about it.
And this was in the context that:   Only an FCA authorised firm was lawfully able to give investment advice. And a 
regulated firm giving investment advice would usually arrange the transactions 
themselves so as to charge dealing commission. It raised the possibility of serious 
malpractice if an unauthorised person was giving investment advice in breach of 
s19 of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
The number of instructions to purchase two niche shares, specifying particular 
days for settlement at particular prices, was highly unusual for seemingly 
unconnected retail customers. Including settlement details in their instructions was 
not only unusual but served no obvious purpose from a pension investors point of 
view.
The possibility that the advice to buy the shares was coming from an unauthorized 
person was increased by the riskiness of concentrating pension funds in the 
shares of one or two small, obscure companies: an FCA-authorised firm would 
have regulatory obligations not to give unsuitable investment advice, and would be 
unlikely to find such shares a suitable pension investment for many (if any) of their 
clients, let alone a string of clients, and all at around the same time.
In my view, the circumstances surrounding the receipt of Mr Fs instructions ought 
reasonably to have caused Templeton Securities to take a closer look at the transaction. If 
it had done so, and looked at the information it already had available through the account 
opening documentation, it would have seen that Mr F had said he had a modest income; no 
savings or investments of note, and the £67,000 invested in the SIPP represented his total 
assets. Hed said his preferred level of risk was medium to medium/high, and experience 
wise he was a novice investor in equities.
His instructions to invest his entire net wealth into two niche shares, presenting significant 
risks, was clearly at odds with his other financial provision, inconsistent with him being a 
novice investor in equities, with a likely limited understanding of the investments, and 
preferring a medium to medium/high level of risk.
Given these inconsistencies, I think Templeton Securities should have recognised that the 
investments were clearly unsuitable for Mr F. And that Mr Fs placing of the manifestly 
unsuitable order wasnt a result of some idiosyncrasy of Mr F himself, because others were 
giving virtually identical instructions in similar circumstances. There was plainly likely to be 
a third party behind all the instructions.
So in this context, is it reasonable to think that Templeton Securities should have 
discovered that the source of the numerous and similarly worded instructions to buy the 
niche shares came from an unregulated source?
Templeton Securities has said the unregulated firms werent known to it. And it never 
had any discussions or agreements with either of them. It said it had no knowledge of or 
arrangement of any kind for the introduction of business or otherwise.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest there was any formal arrangement 
between Templeton Securities and either of the unregulated firms.
However there is a Form of Authority on its file that was signed by Mr F and dated 13 
May 2014. Such a form was on the majority of the complaints that have been referred to 
the Ombudsman Service. But irrespective of that, I think there clear warning signs in the 
existing information that Templeton Securities already had available to it. And on makingfurther enquiries with Mr F and other clients directly, it would have become apparent that an 
unauthorised person was advising clients to invest in these shares and helping them do so; 
giving investment advice and arranging deals in investments in breach of s19 of The 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. I dont think Mr F or the other clients would have 
reason not to tell Templeton Securities who had recommended the transactions and the 
unregulated firms role if Templeton Securities had asked the question and pointed out the 
reasons for its concern.
In this context, I think Templeton Securities should have identified that Mr F and other 
clients were probably being given regulated investment advice by a firm which lacked 
authorisation to give the advice, and that an unregulated firm(s) were probably breaching 
the general prohibition under s.19. On making reasonable enquiries it would have 
discovered that the advice in Mr Fs case was wholly inconsistent with his circumstances 
and manifestly unsuitable for his pension fund, and that executing his instructions was 
entirely contrary to his best interests. In these circumstances I think it should have exercised 
its discretion to decline to accept the instruction.
So I dont think Templeton Securities met its obligations under Principles 2, 3 and 6. I think if 
it had conducted its business with skill care and diligence and took reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems, it should have identified the unusual pattern of execution only requests and 
intervened to take a closer look at the transaction. If it had done so, in the circumstances as 
I have described, I think it should have spotted the clear risks to Mr F, and, acting in his best 
interests, exercised its discretion to decline to accept his instruction.
Taking all the circumstances into account, I consider that Templeton Securities 
unreasonably accepted Mr Fs instruction when it had the opportunity and obligation to 
prevent the purchase of the shares.
Given that I think Templeton Securities failed to meet its regulatory obligations, I need to 
decide whether its failings caused the losses that Mr F has claimed. So Ive considered 
what Mr F would likely have done if Templeton Securities had declined to carry out his 
instruction.
Mr F had already transferred his money to the SIPP and switched his money into the 
advisory account with Templeton Securities. So if Templeton Securities had declined to 
accept the instruction Mr F would have had practical difficulties if he still wanted to buy 
the shares; he would have needed to find another broker and get the SIPP provider to 
open another account to enable him to do so.
Mr F has confirmed that he received a payment of £4,000 following the transaction which he 
says the unregulated firm described as introductory commission.
I recognise the influence of the unregulated firms who appeared to be driving the 
transactions in the background. And that a payment could have been motivation for Mr F to 
want to continue to buy the same shares, irrespective of the actions of Templeton Securities 
and therefore the practical difficulties of doing so.
However I think its likely Mr F would have lost trust in the unregulated firm(s) if 
Templeton Securities, as a regulated firm, had said it wouldnt process his instruction and 
its reasons for not doing so.
Templeton Securities said it sent a letter to Mr F dated 20 May 2014. Amongst other things
it said:"We note your interest in high risk products, investments in smaller companies, in particular 
'Penny Shares' and investments that are not readily realisable e.g. small unquoted 
companies, involve a high risk that all or part of your investment may be lost.
Templeton has said this was an introductory letter and, regardless of whether the new client 
was low, medium or high risk, it was a generic paragraph that was included in the letter to 
give a general warning of trading in high risk shares.
Ive currently seen no evidence that Mr F had expressed an interest in high risk products, 
investments in smaller companies, in particular 'Penny Shares' and investments that are not 
readily realisable. And when he opened his account the documentation showed he had 
limited experience of investments, was a novice investor in equities and his preferred level 
of risk was medium to medium/high, which isnt consistent with an interest in these high-risk 
shares.
Given the significant risk of loss of the amount invested in the shares, approximately
£66,000, relative to the £4,000 payment; the practical difficulties of buying the shares if 
Templeton Securities had declined his instruction, and that Mr F had indicated his preferred 
level of risk was medium to medium high, I think, on balance, its unlikely that Mr F would 
have invested in Emmit and Eligere had it not been for Templeton Securities failings.
Templeton has said it wrote to Mr F on 11 September 2014. It said the letter notified Mr F of 
the risks of the investment yet he decided to take no action to mitigate his position.
Mr F has said he doesnt recall receiving such a letter. And Alexander David hasnt provided 
a copy of such a letter in its file or evidence to show that a letter was sent.
Ive seen a copy of the letter sent to other clients. Assuming it was the same letter, it 
included:
Re: Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit
We are writing to draw your attention to the investment of your pension in the above type 
of stocks and believe that you need to consider whether or not you feel its appropriate to 
invest in such high risk investments.
We fully understand that you have purchased these 'Execution Only' but wish to advise 
that in the provision of this execution, Templeton Securities is not required to assess the 
suitability of the service provided or offered and that therefore, as a client, you do not 
benefit from the corresponding protection of the relevant FCA Conduct of Business 
Rules.
The letter was about the Emmit shares only. It did say the shares were high risk, but it said 
the investor should consider whether or not they felt they were appropriate for them. Mr F 
was recorded as a novice investor in equities. I think he would reasonably have understood 
the shares were appropriate given hed been advised to buy them only a few months 
earlier. Whilst this was by an unregulated firm, I think its unlikely he would have known the 
significance of this.
I dont think the letter was sufficient to prompt investors to act. It was relatively brief. It did 
draw the investors attention to the high-risk nature of the investment. And that Templeton 
Securities hadnt assessed suitability. But the letter didnt indicate there were any particular 
problems with the investment.So even if I accepted that Mr F was sent such a letter, I dont think the wording was 
sufficiently strong or specific such as it ought to have prompted him to act. As I said, the 
letter only referred to Emmit  Eligere wasnt mentioned. I dont think the letter meant that Mr 
F shouldve acted to mitigate his position. Or that his losses should be limited to what theyd 
have been if hed sold his Emmit shares on receipt of that letter. For the reasons Ive given, I 
dont think Mr F would have been invested in the shares but for Templetons shortcomings; 
in my view it should have identified there was an unregulated business involved and 
declined to process the investment instruction.
Templeton Securities has asked whether the unregulated firms and product provider were 
being investigated and/or compensation sought from them. I have no powers to investigate 
complaints against the unregulated firms. Whilst I accept they had a role in the transaction, 
it was Templeton Securities that was authorised to provide these regulated financial 
services, and was bound by the obligations flowing from the Rules and Principles as I have 
outlined above.
Templeton Securities and the SIPP provider had their own distinct regulatory obligations 
under the Principles. I think in the circumstances, the onus was on Templeton Securities to 
have recognised the clear possibility of detriment to Mr F, and it should have prevented the 
investments being made in the first place, for the reasons I have given.
In my view, Mr Fs losses flow from Templeton Securities failings and so its fair and 
reasonable that Templeton Securities should redress Mr F for those losses. If Templeton 
Securities considers that some other party is responsible, in whole or in part for Mr Fs 
losses, I dont think Mr F, if his losses are met in full by Templeton Securities, would 
decline to assign any rights of action he might have against any other party to Templeton 
Securities.
So I think Mr Fs losses flow from the failure of Templeton Securities to meet its 
regulatory obligations. And I think it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for 
Templeton Securities to pay compensation to Mr F for the losses that resulted from 
those failings.
Weve been told that the FCA conducted an investigation into Templeton Securities with 
regard to both Eligere and Emmit, including a full review of all telephone calls and emails 
but then dropped the investigation, deciding that there was no case to answer and no 
wrongdoing found on Templeton Securities part. Ive seen a copy of a letter sent by the 
FCA to Alexander David about that investigation, but on the face of it I dont think the FCA 
were investigating the same matter. In the absence of full details of that investigation, Im 
not persuaded it changes my findings as set out above. Im considering if Templeton 
Securities met its obligations to Mr F in its dealing with him. For the reasons Ive set out, I 
dont think it did.
Applying sections 27 and 28 FSMA
I have also examined a separate basis upon which Templeton Securities may be 
responsible for the same losses. Ive considered the findings in the recent Court of Appeal 
case Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP. In deciding what is, in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook 
to take into account, amongst other things, relevant law and regulations. In doing so Ive 
considered the facts of this case in light of the legal principles expounded by the Court of 
Appeal in the recent case Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP, which I think are 
relevant. The court considered, amongst other things, the application of sections 27 and 28 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
In summary, s27 may apply where an authorised person makes an agreement with another 
person in the course of carrying out a regulated activity, which was a consequence of 
something said or done by an unregulated party acting in breach of the general prohibition 
(s19 of FSMA). S27 provides that an agreement to which it applies is unenforceable against 
the other party, and sets out what the other party can recover.
S28 of FSMA provides the court with the discretion to allow an agreement to which s.27 
applies to be in any event enforced, if it considers it is just and equitable to do so.
The relevant parts of section 27 and 28 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 provide:
27 Agreements made through unauthorised persons.
(1) This section applies to an agreement that 
(a) is made by an authorised person (the provider) in the course of carrying on a 
regulated activity,
(d) is made in consequence of something said or done by another person (the third 
party) in the course of
(i) a regulated activity carried on by the third party in contravention of the general 
prohibition,
(1A) An agreement to which this section applies is unenforceable against the other party.
  (2) The other party is entitled to recover
(a) any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the agreement; and
(b) compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of having parted 
with it. 
(3)Agreement means an agreement
(a) made after this section comes into force; and
(b) the making or performance of which constitutes, or is part of, the regulated 
activity in question carried on by the provider.
28 Agreements made unenforceable by section 26 or 27 [general cases].
(1) This section applies to an agreement which is unenforceable because of section 
26 or 27, other than an agreement entered into in the course of carrying on a credit- 
related regulated activity.
(2) The amount of compensation recoverable as a result of that section is
(a) the amount agreed by the parties; or
(b) on the application of either party, the amount determined by the court.
(3) If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in the circumstances of the case, it 
may allow
(a) the agreement to be enforced; or
(b) money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained.
(4) In considering whether to allow the agreement to be enforced or (as the case may    
be) the money or property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained the 
court must
(b) if the case arises as a result of section 27, have regard to the issue mentioned in  
subsection (6).
(6) The issue is whether the provider knew that the third party was (in carrying on 
the regulated activity) contravening the general prohibition.
(7) If the person against whom the agreement is unenforceable
(a) elects not to perform the agreement, or(b) as a result of this section, recovers money paid or other property transferred by him 
under the agreement, he must repay any money and return any other property received 
by him under the agreement.
(8) If property transferred under the agreement has passed to a third party, a reference in 
section 26 or 27 or this section to that property is to be read as a reference to its value at
the time of its transfer under the agreement.
The Court of Appeal decided that s27 of FSMA applied in the circumstances of that case. 
So it went onto consider s28 (3) - would it be just and equitable, in the circumstances of the 
case, to allow the agreement to be enforced/ the money and property paid or transferred 
under the agreement to be retained. In deciding the matter s28 (4) required it to consider 
s28(6)  did the provider know the third party was contravening the general prohibition? It 
considered whether this meant actual knowledge of it or constructive knowledge. And 
decided it meant actual knowledge. It found that Carey didnt have actual knowledge. But 
then it went onto say:
Where a provider actually knew that the general prohibition was being breached, that 
must weigh heavily against use of the power conferred by section 28(3) of FSMA. If, on 
the other hand, a provider lacked such knowledge, it may still be appropriate to deny 
relief under section 28(3). And
Likewise, meeting the requirements of section 28(6) will not necessarily mean that relief 
should be granted. Amongst the factors that it may be proper to take into account is 
whether the provider should reasonably have known that the general prohibition was being 
contravened.
The court decided, on the particular facts of the case, not to exercise the discretion 
provided to it in s28. It didnt think it was just and equitable to grant Carey relief under 
section 28(3) of FSMA. It referred to the surrounding circumstances that it thought ought 
to have given reason for Carey to be concerned about the possibility of the unregulated 
firm arranging and advising on investments, even though it didnt in fact appreciate that 
the general prohibition was being contravened.
The court made the following comments:
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own decisions, 
there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers from their own 
folly. That much reduces the force of Mr Greens contentions that Mr Adams caused his 
own losses and misled Carey; and
While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated 
sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so onto 
the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce agreements and 
being required to return money and other property and to pay compensation regardless of 
whether they had had knowledge of third parties contraventions of the general 
prohibition.
Ive considered Mr Fs complaint in light of the Courts findings. For s27 of FSMA to 
apply, an agreement must have been made by an authorised person (here, Templeton) 
in consequence of a contravention of the general prohibition by a third party (here the 
unregulated firm(s)).
Given the facts of Mr Fs complaint and the surrounding circumstances as I have set out 
above, I think its most likely the unregulated firm(s) was/were breaching the general prohibition by arranging deals in and advising on investments  articles 25 and 53 of the 
Regulated Activities Order. And I think the advice and the unregulated firm(s) actions in
providing Mr F with his draft purchase instruction clearly played a crucial part in Mr F 
buying the shares. As I have explained, I think its hardly likely that so many ordinary retail 
clients would suddenly all unilaterally decide to invest in these two little known niche 
shares at around the same time. So I think a court would find that s27 applies, and Mr F 
can (subject to s.28), recover the monies he invested through his agreement with 
Templeton Securities when it accepted his instructions to purchase the shares and the 
investment losses he sustained.
Ive therefore gone onto consider s28.
I think the overriding question is that set out in s.28(3); whether it would be just and equitable 
in the circumstances of the case to allow enforcement of the agreement or retention of the 
price paid. The significance of s.28(4) and (6) is to require the court to have regard to 
whether the firm knew the third party was breaching the general prohibition. But as the Court 
of Appeal emphasised, meeting the requirements of section 28(6) will not necessarily 
mean that relief should be granted. So whilst it has to be taken into account, it doesnt make 
that factor necessarily determinative.
Equally, the question of whether the firm should reasonably have known the general 
prohibition was being breached is something that it may be proper to take into account, but 
it is also not a determinative test, just a potentially relevant circumstance in some cases.
I think in deciding s28 (3) and what was just and equitable in Mr Fs case, the court would, 
as it did in Adams v Options, look at all the circumstances in the round.
For the reasons I set out, I think Templeton Securities ignored several red flags that should 
have reasonably alerted it that there was a strong possibility that its clients were being 
systematically put in harms way; being given the same seemingly irresponsible advice by a 
common, unknown source. As I have said, I dont think Templeton Securities acted 
reasonably when ignoring those signals of potential wrongdoing. And I think whilst the court 
would take into account it may not have had actual knowledge of the breach, I think, looking 
at the circumstances in the round, had it acted reasonably rather than ignore those clear 
warnings it would have discovered the breach on making reasonably enquiries around it.
Taking all this into account, I dont think a court would find it was just and equitable to allow 
Templeton relief under s28. And therefore Mr F could recover his money under s27.
I said that my provisional decision was that I thought it was fair and reasonable to uphold Mr 
Fs complaint on either of the bases I had outlined; that is, that Templeton Securities had 
failed to meet its regulatory obligation under the Principles. And that its likely that a court 
would decide that Mr F could recover his money under s27.
I went on to set out how I thought Alexander David should calculate fair compensation and 
pay it to Mr F. 
I asked Mr F and Alexander David to provide any further evidence or arguments that they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Fs representative said that Mr F accepted the provisional decision. However it asked that 
compensation be paid to Mr F through his representative outside of the pension (with a 
deduction for basic rate income tax where appropriate). This was because of Mr Fs personal and financial circumstances which it outlined. It also said he had lost confidence with the 
SIPP provider, and didnt want further funds paid into the SIPP as it would allow the provider 
to charge administration fees.
Alexander David didnt provide any further evidence or arguments to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Mr Fs representatives asked that compensation be paid outside of the SIPP. However my 
aim in awarding compensation is, as far as it is possible, to put Mr F back into the position 
that he would otherwise have been in had the firms failings not occurred. 
Templeton Securities wasnt involved in the transfer (switch) to the SIPP. The money Mr F 
has lost as a result of Templetons failings would otherwise have been held in the SIPP. Mr F 
will have access to compensation paid into the SIPP as he would have done but for the 
firms failings. If Mr F is concerned about the fees applied he can raise them with SIPP 
provider. Whilst I am obviously sorry to learn of Mr Fs circumstances, I dont think these are 
appropriate reasons not to have the compensation paid into the SIPP.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr F as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if Templeton Securities had not agreed to purchase 
the shares for Mr Fs account.
If it had not agreed to buy the shares I think Mr F, having already completed the switch of his 
pension to the SIPP, would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what 
he would have done, but Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr F's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should Alexander David Securities Limited do?
To compensate Mr F fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
It should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mr F's pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities 
Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr F's pension 
plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
I think Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age. So the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr F would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
investmentBenchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
The amounts FTSE UK The date Date of a
invested in Private of final
Eligere Investors purchase decision
(£33,117) and Income Total of each
Emmit Return Index; share
(£33,117) 
including
charges, less
a deduction
of £4,000 
divided
equally - so
£2,000 from
each.8% simple a 
year from date
of a final decision to 
date of
settlement if 
settlement isnt 
made within 
28 days of 
Alexander 
David being 
notified of
Mr Fs 
acceptance of 
this decision
The deduction of £4,000 reflects the payment that was made to Mr F and which he has
had use of. In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Pay Mr F £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter 
has caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr F in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much it has taken off. It should also 
give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
actual value 
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David 
Securities Limited should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted 
from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to purchase the investment the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Alexander David 
Securities Limited may wish to require that Mr F provides an undertaking to pay it any 
amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for 
any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
Alexander David Securities Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking. 
fair value 
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I dont know exactly how Mr F would have invested. Mr F had indicated he was willing to 
take a medium to medium/high degree of risk. But it appears this was largely driven by the 
unregulated firm. Mr F had already switched his money to the pension. I think if Templeton 
had refused to accept Mr Fs instructions he could have sought suitable advice
from it on how to invest his pension. Given his particular circumstances and apparent
modest financial provision, I think he would have been advised to invest at medium risk 
at most.
I think the index I have outlined above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable
proxy for the degree of risk I think its likely that Mr F would have been recommended and he 
would have agreed to take.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
My final decision
My final decision is that I think it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Fs complaint on either
of the bases I have outlined above; that is, that Templeton Securities failed to meet its
regulatory obligation under the Principles. And that its likely a court would decide that Mr F
could recover his money under s27.
I order Alexander David Securities Ltd to calculate and pay compensation to Mr F as I have
set out above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman