DRN-2782572
The complaint
Miss Ms unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited handled her claim after she was 
involved in a car accident.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are familiar to both parties. This background is intended 
to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full timeline or list every 
point that has been made.
Miss M was involved in a road traffic accident in June 2019. She reported the accident to 
Aviva and advised there was an independent witness to the accident able to testify she was 
not at fault.
Aviva didnt obtain the witnesses statement before Miss Ms claim went to arbitration and 
without it a 50:50 liability split was decided. Miss M was advised she was being held 50% 
liable for the accident after she contacted Aviva in October 2019.
Miss M raised a complaint. Aviva acknowledged it shouldve done more to obtain the witness 
statement before the case went to arbitration. When it did obtain the statement later that 
month, it changed the status of Miss Ms claim to non-fault meaning she retained her no 
claims discount and wasnt liable to pay 50% of her policy excess. Aviva also offered Miss M 
£75 compensation.
Aviva later increased its offer to £100. Miss M accepted the payment but remained unhappy 
so asked our service to look into things. Our investigator felt Avivas offer to resolve the 
complaint was fair and reasonable, so she didnt think it needed to do anything more. Miss M 
didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
Further Developments
I contacted both Miss M and Aviva with my initial thoughts. I said I didnt think £100 went far 
enough to reflect the impact of Avivas errors on Miss M and instead thought it should pay a 
further £200 - increasing the compensation paid to Miss M to £300 in total.
Miss M said both her and her passenger at the time of the accident have experienced delays 
to their personal injury claims as a result of Avivas delay in clearing her of any fault. Miss M 
also asked me to consider the time it took Aviva to inform her it was recording her claim as 
non-fault. She said had she been told this sooner it wouldve lessened the impact the 
situation has had on her.
Aviva also disagreed with my initial thoughts saying that in addition to paying Miss M 
compensation of £100, itd also reimbursed 50% of Miss Ms excess which she wouldnt 
have been able to claim back from the third partys insurer. Aviva also said, that whilst it was 
unable to place a monetary value on it, its decision to reinstate Miss Ms no claims discount 
(NCD) benefited her greatly in addition to the compensation itd paid.
As neither Miss M or Aviva agreed with my initial thoughts, Ive now considered this matter in 
a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, and Ive 
done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated 
on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avivas acknowledged it was at fault by not acting to obtain a witness statement following 
Miss Ms accident. This isnt in dispute. Ive seen the contact notes provided by Aviva. Its 
clear from the outset Miss Ms testimony was consistent with regards to her not being at 
fault. She made Aviva aware of there being a witness to the accident and gave a detailed 
account of the incident. What remains in dispute is what fairly compensates Miss M for the 
distress and inconvenience Avivas error caused her.
Im aware Aviva were initially provided an incorrect telephone number for the witness. It 
wasnt provided with the correct number until August 2019 so its from this date Ive 
considered the impact Avivas failure to act had on Miss M.
Aviva made contact with the witness two months before arbitration decided Miss M 
would be held 50% liable for causing the accident. The witnesss version of the event 
matched Miss Ms testimony, and the witness agreed for a statement form to be sent 
out. But a further week passed before Ive seen any evidence a form was sent, 
prompted by Miss M chasing Aviva for an update.
Miss M chased Aviva again in October but was told the witness hadnt responded. Again, 
Ive seen no evidence a response was chased by Aviva and it wasnt until after arbitration 
and Miss M raised a complaint that a further witness form was sent out  this time via 
recorded delivery. Had Aviva done more to follow up obtaining a statement from the 
witness  which I think it should have done, Im satisfied the outcome would more likely 
than not have resulted in a no fault claim against Miss M. I say this because after Aviva 
received the witnesss statement shortly after sending out a further form, it made the 
decision to record the claim as such within a matter of days.
But this decision wasnt made by Aviva, or at least communicated to Miss M for a further 
month, during which Miss M was left with the understanding that shed be liable for 50% of 
her policy excess and would have to find future insurance void of any no claims discount 
shed built up. I can understand why this wouldve had a considerable impact on her 
especially as shed told Aviva shortly after registering her claim that she was not in a 
position to pay her policy excess.
Further adding to the impact on Miss M, I can see she received contact from the company 
dealing with her personal injury claim letting her know that the third partys insurer had 
informed it the claim had been agreed as being a 50:50 split liability. Miss M has said this 
delayed her claim being progressed. I can see after Miss M contacted Aviva, it provided 
confirmation that the claim had been closed as non-fault. But again, I can see no evidence 
Aviva acted to ensure confirmation was given prior to her having to chase.I would have expected Aviva to have done more to assist Miss M with her claim. Aviva has 
confirmed, following its decision to record the claim as no fault of Miss M, shes wasnt 
liable to pay her policy excess and itd reinstated her NCD. I agree this is the right thing to 
have done. Im satisfied it puts Miss M back in the position she wouldve been in had the 
witness statement been obtained prior to arbitration. But I dont think £100 is a fair and 
reasonable reflection on the distress and inconvenience caused during the circumstances 
of this complaint.
Its important to say theres always going to be some distress and inconvenience caused 
as a result of being in an accident. Miss M has said how it still impacts both her and her 
daughter, a passenger in the vehicle when the accident occurred, to this day. Whilst of 
course Aviva werent in any way at fault for the accident occurring, I think its clear it 
contributed to making the impact of it worse. 
Aviva made contact with the witness soon after receiving the correct contact number. And 
it was aware the witness supported Miss Ms testimony. Had it done more  which I think it 
should have done - it seems that arbitration, and the extra stress being held partly liable 
put on Miss M couldve been avoided. I say this as it only took Aviva about two weeks to 
obtain a witness statement once arbitration had been decided  and Miss M had made a 
complaint. So, I think its fair to assume that the same timeframe wouldve applied had 
Aviva followed up with the witness when it shouldve done which was around the middle of 
August. Had it done, all the things that happened since then, including the time Miss M has 
spent chasing Aviva, the delays experienced, and all of the extra stress, worry and 
inconvenience put upon Miss M, couldve been avoided.
Putting things right
Aviva should pay a further £200 to Miss M - increasing the compensation paid to £300 in 
total. Im satisfied this is a fair resolution in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Miss M a further £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman