DRN-3193937
The complaint
Mr B complains that Caledonian Consumer Finance Limited has treated him unfairly in 
relation to a professional skills course he took finance to pay for.
What happened
Mr B made an approach online in November 2020 about a professional skills course (the 
Course). He was contacted about this and an appointment was arranged for the 08 
December 2020. Mr B, following a second appointment, entered into a Fixed Sum Loan 
Agreement on 12 December 2020 to go on the Course which would provide him skills and 
external qualifications to take to follow a new career path. 
He paid for the Course by entering a fixed sum loan agreement (a loan) with Caledonian 
who then paid the Course Provider for the Course with the advance from the loan 
agreement. As part of this arrangement Mr B agreed to repay the loan to Caledonian through 
monthly repayments. 
Mr B cancelled his direct debit for making the loan repayments in early 2021. He was then 
told he had tried to cancel outside the 14-day period (where he could cancel freely) so he 
had to pay the full course cost. So he complained.
Caledonian investigated the matter by liaising with the Course Provider. Caledonian told Mr 
B that it didnt feel that it had done anything wrong. It explained about the nature of the 
Course and the qualifications hed gain. Mr B didnt agree so he complained here.
The investigator didnt feel any part of the complaint should be upheld. Mr B doesnt agree. 
So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a loan of this type is sold by a credit broker, as is the case here then the lender 
(Caledonian) is responsible for any material misrepresentations given by the broker and the 
underlying purchase. This is because, due to Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, 
the broker is treated as acting as the lenders agent.
And so Mr B can bring a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). 
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr B has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against a supplier of goods or services (here the Course provider), he can complain 
to the lender (Caledonian).
I should add that this decision isnt about the Course Provider as it is not within my 
jurisdiction or remit to do so. Caledonian has obligations under the Act to consider whether 
there was breach or misrepresentation regarding the arrangement Mr B entered into here. 
And Caledonian is within my remit and I need to decide if it has treated Mr B fairly in relation 
to his claim regarding the Course.
I have considered the requirements of the legislation and the circumstances here. 
Caledonian doesnt dispute that a claim can be raised here. As these circumstances sit 
within the financial limits, the appropriate relationship is in place and the other requirements 
have been met, I think this situation can be considered under the Act.
Ive reviewed the agreement and other information provided from when Mr B agreed to go on 
the Course. There is no real time recording (e.g. Video or Audio) of what was actually said 
when Mr B discussed the matter with the broker. However there are the materials used for 
such discussions available and the documentation which Mr B agreed to. For this complaint 
to be upheld I would have to be persuaded that either Mr B was materially misrepresented 
what the course was and if he had been properly informed, he wouldnt have entered the 
agreement. Or Id need to be persuaded that the agreement had been breached and 
Caledonian should be held responsible for that.
It is clear from what the Course Provider has shown that Mr B logged into the Course on a 
number of occasions after enrolling but didnt complete any assignments and stopped 
logging in during the first weeks of 2021. So as the course was available to Mr B and he 
hasnt complained that it wasnt provided or available, Im satisfied the contract for the 
Course hasnt been breached by the Course Provider. It seems clear it was Mr B who 
stopped using it rather than it being not available or provided. So Caledonian doesnt have to 
remedy any breach here. But was the Course misrepresented to Mr B?
Ive seen what the Course aims are and what it requires of those attending the Course. I see 
that the Course provides access to a number of qualifications from well-known external 
providers during the Course plan. 
The first evidence of Mr B not being happy (that Caledonian was aware of) was his 
cancelling his monthly payment. Caledonian then spoke to Mr B who referred to a letter 
which hed sent, but clearly Caledonian hadnt received at that point. The Caledonian contact 
notes of that call said that Mr B didnt explain his reasoning for cancelling other than to say it 
was all in the letter and hed had legal help.
Mr B key arguments in his letter of February 2021 to Caledonian are that I was under the 
impression I was receiving a legitimate qualification that was recognised by modern trading 
standards. Since this moment I have received very poor quality of learning materials that led 
me to recognising the falsification of the qualification. He then refers to negative online 
comment about the course. He then says I have been mis-sold what I was told was a 
legitimate training course.
Mr B says other things in his letter, but these are the key reasons he gives for wishing to 
withdraw from the course. He also says hes taken guidance from a lawyer about his 
complaint. So I think this letter is a summation of his position at the time he chose to 
withdraw from the Course.
Ive considered these comments carefully. And having considered the qualifications which 
are available through the Course (including from well-known qualification providers) I dont 
think Mr Bs arguments are persuasive. This Course does provide access to legitimate 
qualifications provided by external qualification providers which are recognised and accepted 
across that industry. And if Mr B had stuck with the Course he would have had opportunity to 
take those exams, and if successful, those exams would have provided an important 
stepping-stone in his new career. So when Mr B says he thought he was going to receive 
legitimate qualification he was. So there isnt any misrepresentation here.Mr B say he thought the learning materials were very poor quality and this led him to the 
conclusion the qualification was falsified. Im not persuaded that the qualification was 
falsified. In fact Im satisfied the qualifications available were legitimate.
So in short the reasons Mr B gives for wanting out of the Course at the time, after taking 
guidance from a lawyer, are not persuasive to me and I consider them inaccurate in regard 
to the legitimacy of the qualifications offered. So not only am I satisfied that there wasnt any 
misrepresentation in this regard to Mr B, but it seems clear that his reasons for stopping 
attending the Course and his payments were erroneous. I think if Mr B had engaged more 
with the Course provider at the time hed have discovered his reasoning wasnt correct. 
However it seems Mr B was swayed by online comments about training courses as he has 
referred to this. Caledonian arent responsible for such comments.
Caledonian in its complaint response set out its position on the matter, including making 
clear the qualifications were legitimate and dealing with Mr Bs complaint issues.
Our Investigator issued their assessment of the matter in October 2021 which found Mr B 
hadnt been treated unfairly. Mr B has since provided a number of other complaint points 
which up until this point hed not brought up to either this service or Caledonian. Ill address 
these now.
Mr B now says he wasnt told about practical training elements of the Course. Im not 
persuaded by this as the course materials make clear that at a much later stage than when 
Mr B stopped paying there would be such practical elements to the Course. Mr B says local 
companies who could provide placements or apprenticeships werent hiring. Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence that Mr B was told that the Course provider would provide such 
placements. Clearly Caledonian isnt responsible for businesses it has no connection with.
I note that the Course Provider has said that the course has both a tutor with whom Mr B can 
discuss his needs, but it also has a degree of flexibility so that Mr B can follow the course in 
a manner which suits him. But Ive not seen any substantial evidence of Mr B engaging with 
the Course Provider.
Mr B says that he was told that the course was (one of the examination bodies) approved 
yet I have come to find this is untrue. This is significantly different to what Mr B had said 
when he cancelled his payment. Im not necessarily persuaded he was told that the 
examination body had approved the course considering his contemporaneous comments on 
the matter. Notwithstanding this, I dont think it would make a difference. This is because it is 
the passing of these externally provided qualifications which enable people undertaking this 
course to qualify and enter the industry. Simply attending the course itself doesnt enable 
entering the profession. So Im not persuaded he was told this or that this issue actually 
makes a material difference.
Mr B says the Course Provider hasnt tried to help him with this issue. However it is clear he 
didnt engage with it before cancelling his payment. And from the contact notes it seems he 
referenced his legal advice to the Course Provider in the first call had after cancelling his 
payments. So I can appreciate why the Course Provider might have felt that Mr B was set on 
not continuing with the course and wasnt wanting to discuss his continuation of the course 
any further.
Mr B raises the issue of whether he was told he would need to pay extra if he couldnt 
complete the course within three years. I can see this information is in the information 
available to him so if this had been a problem for him at the time he could have exited the 
arrangement within the 14 days cooling off period. Furthermore Im not persuaded that someone who wanted to do this course would be put off by this at the point of sale 
considering the circumstances Mr B was in. And I dont think Mr B, having not completed a 
single assignment when he cancelled could have understood at that point how long he would 
have taken to complete the course considering hed barely started it. So whether or not he 
was told about this in the conversations had I dont think makes a difference for these 
reasons.
Mr B says he felt pressured into agreeing this course. If that was the case hed have felt this 
at the time of signing. So its not clear why when he felt this way he would then choose to 
wait until sometime after the cooling off period had elapsed to stop his repayments and then 
complain. Id expect him to have raised this immediately rather than raising it for the first-
time many months later. So Im not persuaded the broker or Caledonian had done anything 
wrong here.
Mr B says he exercised his rights under legislation to exit the contract. He refers to 
Consumer Rights 1967. I think hes trying to refer to either the Misrepresentation Act 1967, 
Section 67 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015, or the Act Ive already referred to, as theres 
no such Act as the Consumer Rights Act 1967. Ive considered these possibilities and Ive 
not seen anything which persuades me he had a legislation-based reason to exit the 
agreement he could rely on when he tried to without any cost as he suggests. And I dont 
think it would be fair for him to exit the contract when he tried to or for Caledonian to pick up 
the cost of him doing so. I should add that Mr Bs arguments about those making 
misrepresentations having to demonstrate that they were not negligent are unpersuasive. I 
say this because Im not persuaded there has been a material misrepresentation here which 
led to Mr B entering a contract hed otherwise not have done. So without a misrepresentation 
being demonstrated there is no negligence to disavow.
So having considered the issues where Mr B says he was misrepresented, what has 
happened and what Caledonian have said and provided from the time, on balance I dont 
think Mr B was materially misrepresented to when deciding to take the course he took.
From the evidence it seems clear that Mr B has been provided with the course he was told 
he was going get. Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the contract has been breached. 
All in all having considered everything Mr B has said I dont think Caledonian has treated Mr 
B unfairly. Im not persuaded the contract has been materially misrepresented to Mr B or 
breached. So, I have decided that this complaint shouldnt succeed.
I suggest Mr B speaks to the Course Provider about restarting the course if hed like to. 
Caledonian hasnt treated Mr B unfairly. So it can pursue him for any outstanding payments 
under the Agreement if it wishes to.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about Caledonian Consumer Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman