DRN-1568199
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly refused to pay her claim under her 
pet policy.
What happened
Mrs M took out a pet policy with Allianz which started on 14 January 2019 with the initial four 
weeks free cover. She then ensured she had the subsequent annual policy which covered 
her dog for the rest of his life subject to the terms and conditions of the policy.
The policy doesnt provide any cover for illnesses which predated or occurred within the first 
14 days of cover. It does however cover claims arising from injuries from the start date. 
Mrs M said her dog became lame on 23 January 2019 during a walk in the woods. She 
brought him to the vet on 30 January 2019 and the vet subsequently diagnosed he had 
suffered a cruciate ligament rupture to his left hind leg. Her dog then required an operation to 
repair it. 
Mrs M then claimed the costs of this amounting to £3,766.96. Allianz reviewed the clinical 
history of Mrs Ms dog and said it couldnt pay her claim as her dog suffered cruciate 
ligament disease within the first 14 days of cover which was excluded under the policy. 
Mrs M complained but Allianz wouldnt change its stance. So she brought her complaint to 
us. The investigator didnt think Allianz had done anything wrong. Mrs M disagreed so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First I do understand and appreciate how strongly Mrs M feels that Allianz have got this 
wrong and are being very unfair. I also understand that the costs involved in treating her dog 
for this were considerably substantial. 
However, Allianzs policy in common with most other pet policies has different limitations of 
cover. As Mrs M is aware her policy has the following definitions and terms:
There is no cover for an illness that shows clinical signs in the first 14 days of your 
cover starting. 
The policy defines an illness as Any change(s) to a normal healthy state, sickness, 
disease, defects and abnormalities,  
The policy defines an injury as Physical damage or trauma caused immediately by 
an accident. Not any physical damage or trauma that happens over a period of time.
The terms also define clinical signs as A change(s) in your pets normal healthy 
state, bodily functions or behaviour.
Allianz said it was clear from Mrs M account in the vet history for her dog that dog began 
suffering lameness on around a week before she took him to the vet on 30 January 2019. 
Mrs M confirmed she believed her dog became lame on a walk on 23 January 2019. Mrs Ms 
cover for her dog started on 14 January 2019. Therefore theres no dispute the dogs issue 
started within the first 14 days of cover provided for Allianz. 
The issue is now whether that was a injury or an illness. My role and that of this service is 
to assess, based on the evidence and the terms of the policy, whether here, Allianz did 
anything wrong in coming to its decision. We also assess whether it came to its decision 
reasonably. Were however not qualified vets and therefore merely deal with the evidence 
any vet involved produced.
Here Mrs Ms vet hasnt said whether her dog suffered an accident causing his lameness. 
He said the following:
The owners advised that [dogs name] had been for a walk in the woods, he had run 
off and when he came back he was limping on his left hind leg. We are unable to 
pass comment on this as it is impossible to say for certain how this occurred.
Allianz internal vet said that because theres no evidence of a significant trauma, it must be 
that Mrs Ms dog has cruciate ligament disease which means, her dogs claim was not as of 
a result of an injury but as a result of an illness. And therefore because it occurred within 
the first 14 days of cover, her claim is excluded. The vet went to say that the x-rays showed 
some osteoarthritis too. And this would point to a disease process in the cruciate ligament 
leading to the eventual rupture, rather than Mrs Ms dog suffering a significant trauma 
rupturing it. And she referred to several research publications explaining the process of 
cruciate ligament disease in dogs. She also noted that Mrs Ms dog was of a breed type that 
was prone to cruciate ligament disease. 
Mrs Ms vet responded merely talking of the fact that osteoarthritis doesnt rupture the 
cruciate ligament. 
Taking everything in to account, Allianz has shown me that cruciate ligament can rupture 
through a disease process and that in the absence of a significant accident or trauma, that 
its more likely than not Mrs Ms dog suffered from this disease process. Therefore I consider 
Allianz didnt do anything wrong in deciding the rupture of cruciate ligament couldnt be 
classed as an injury under the policys terms. Which unfortunately means for Mrs M that her 
claim cant be covered, given her dog ruptured his cruciate ligament within 14 days of the 
policy starting.
My final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman