DRN-3234447
The complaint
Mr K complains about how The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) pursued arrears on his
mortgage. He said even though he was paying off the arrears as agreed, TMB continued
with legal action. He said it misled the court, and was extremely difficult to deal with.
What happened
Mr K said that TMB kept trying to repossess his home, even though hed agreed to a
payment plan to pay off the arrears on his mortgage. He said TMB's lawyers misled the court
over his payment plan and the amounts owed. Mr K said hed kept up his payments, paid off
the arrears and ended up being four months ahead on his payments, but TMB wouldnt stop.
Mr K said he eventually managed to get TMB to get the claim struck off. But he said this took
a lot of his time and effort. And TMB was trying to charge him for its solicitors costs. Mr K
said he didnt think it was fair for him to have to pay these costs. And he wanted
compensation for the time hed had to spend correcting misinformation given to the courts.
TMB showed us the history of Mr Ks mortgage payments. In 2016, he was overpaying each
month. But then in September 2016, he started to miss payments, and whilst lump sum
payments were occasionally made after this, by February 2018 Mr K had used up the credit
accrued from previous overpayments and was six months in arrears.
These arrears continued to build during 2018. At the end of 2018, Mr K was 12 months in
arrears. Mr K has explained to TMB the personal and family circumstances which led to this.
TMB said that although Mr K had then agreed a plan to pay off the arrears, it didnt think it
had been wrong to go ahead with legal action. It said that any court order could then
legitimise any agreement it had reached with Mr K. TMB said it was entitled to take litigation
action when an account is three or more monthly payments in arrears. Mr K was more than
three months in arrears between July 2017 and February 2020. And between July 2017 and
December 2018, the arrears were increasing every month. So TMB said it was entitled to
take litigation action and it felt that the action taken was reasonable and proportional.
Between early 2019 and early 2020, TMBs solicitors have repeatedly commenced work to
bring this case to a hearing, including providing fresh witness statements updating the court
on the current position of Mr Ks mortgage, and apparently scheduling hearings. But all of
these hearings appear to have been postponed.
TMB initially denied that any mistake had been made in what it told the court about the
amount of arrears on the account, but later said that one witness statement had contained a
typo, meaning Mr Ks account was shown as around £40k in arrears, not £4k in arrears.
TMB said it hadnt added solicitors costs to the balance of the mortgage yet. It said the
hearings had been postponed each time and the case left open, or as its formally known,
adjourned with liberty to restore. It said that is what usually happens when either party has
asked for more time to prepare information for a hearing, or as happened in this case, where
a complaint has been escalated to our service. But TMB said it wasnt appropriate for a court
to strike out the case immediately as this could then result in the full litigation process having
to start from the beginning and could lead to unnecessary costs being incurred.
TMB has told us that in March 2020 the case was again adjourned with liberty to restore, to
be struck out in a years time if it hadnt been restored. It appears that a court date had been
set for early April, but this was then presumably adjourned again without attendance.
Mr K has said that he felt it was very wrong for TMB to leave court action open, at a time
when he had made significant overpayments, and was in fact ahead of schedule on his
payments. TMB accepted that Mr K was then four months ahead on his monthly payments. It
said that Mr K had asked the court to strike off the general order.
TMB initially said that it would leave the case open, because it would be cheaper for Mr K (if
he did fall back into arrears) for an existing court case to be restored than for a new case to
be taken against him. But then Mr K wrote to the court to say that he didnt think these
proceedings should be allowed to continue. TMB agreed that legal action should be formally
halted, and on 2 September 2020 it wrote to the court acknowledging that Mr K had
requested this action be discharged, and that it would agree to this, on the basis that Mr K
had not only cleared the arrears, he was several months ahead with his mortgage payments.
TMB said it couldnt agree that either it or its solicitors had made communications with Mr K
difficult. It said that sometimes, questions would be best directed to certain areas of the
business or the solicitors. Thats because solicitors cant tell Mr K the outstanding balance of
an account on a given day, and TMB cant tell Mr K about the current status of litigation
action and court hearing dates.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr K was 12 months in
arrears when TMB started legal proceedings. He said, based on the increasing level of
arrears, he didnt think it was unreasonable for TMB to hand over the account to its solicitors
at this point. Although Mr K did then start to make overpayments, our investigator didnt think
it was unreasonable for TMB to have continued with this action once it started.
Our investigator noted that TMB confirmed an error occurred when a witness statement was
prepared in January 2020, on the level of arrears on the mortgage. Those were stated as 
being £39,828.09 when the correct position was £3,928.09. Our investigator accepted the 
arrears were significantly over-inflated, but Mr K was still more than three monthly payments
behind. Our investigator didnt think this mistake had a material impact on Mr Ks complaint.
Our investigator said any legal fees incurred by TMB could be added on to Mr Ks mortgage.
Mr K didnt agree. He said he had a payment plan in place before TMB took this case to
court. It had said it wouldnt go ahead with legal action, but then it did. Mr K said TMBs
witness statement not only told the court that his arrears were ten times what they actually
were, it also said that there was no payment plan in place, when there was, and he was
already paying under the plan. Mr K also said that TMB wasnt asking for a suspended
possession order then, it was seeking possession of the property.
Mr K also said it was very difficult to deal with TMB and its solicitors, because when he
contacted the solicitors, they referred him back to TMB, and vice versa.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said although Mr K started to make 
overpayments shortly after TMB began preparing legal action, it was still legitimately entitled
to continue with legal action due to the outstanding arrears amount. Our investigator said
that TMB wasnt seeking immediate possession. And ultimately it was for the court to decide
how to proceed and not TMB.Our investigator also said that TMBs solicitors notes do show all conversations and
information provided during this period. He said he didnt have any reason to tell TMB it
couldnt add legal costs to Mr Ks mortgage.
Mr K said that our investigator had ignored key items. TMB said it wouldnt pursue legal
action when he set up his plan in December 2018, but it did anyway. Then at the start of
2019 he agreed a new payment plan with the solicitors.
Mr K said that the last court filing from TMB was a claim for full possession, NOT suspended
possession. And he said that our investigator had also ignored that TMBs solicitors wrongly
told the courts there was no payment plan in place.
Mr K also said he wasnt aggrieved by being directed to talk to solicitors. He was saying that 
whenever he had questions he was referred to TMB, then TMB would refer him back to the 
solicitors.
Mr K also said our investigator appeared not to have understood that this case never went to
a proper hearing. Mr K said he had to apply to have it struck out, which it then was because
of his request.
Mr K was very unhappy with what wed done to investigate this case. He wanted his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me for a final decision. I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr K has told us he set up a plan on his mortgage to reduce the arrears with TMB in 
late 2018, but he paid his contractual monthly payment (CMP) in January 2019, and 
he began to overpay in February 2019. So I havent been able to see that Mr K 
actually started to pay these arrears down until February 2019. Thats consistent with 
the plan I can see he set up, which was acknowledged by TMBs solicitors in a letter 
dated 8 February 2019.
I dont think TMB was wrong to continue to prepare legal proceedings at this time. I 
can see from the witness statement provided from the time that TMB was then 
seeking a suspended possession order. I think this was appropriate given the level of 
arrears at this point, and that Mr K had only just started to pay those arrears down.
A hearing scheduled for March 2019 didnt take place. It was postponed before the 
hearing date. I dont think that it was wrong for TMB or its solicitors to allow the 
hearing to be adjourned, with leave to restore, in February 2019. I know that Mr K 
had a payment plan in place then. But TMBs action allows the case to be brought 
back if Mr K fell back into arrears. I dont think that TMB had to completely withdraw 
its legal action at this stage.
The case was then repeatedly adjourned, partly because Mr K had raised a separate 
complaint with our service. So no suspended possession order was ever made. In 
the meantime, Mr K continued to reduce the arrears on the mortgage.Mr K said he had considerable difficulties dealing with TMB and its solicitors at this 
time, because he was repeatedly passed from one to the other. But I cant see 
evidence of this on the notes that TMBs solicitors made at the time.
TMBs solicitors also responded to a complaint by Mr K. They investigated Mr Ks 
direct complaint, and said there was no evidence on calls of him being passed back 
repeatedly to TMB. This is consistent with call notes I can see.
I do think, as TMB has said, that there is an inevitable amount of to-ing and fro-ing in 
a situation like this, because TMB will always have the latest information on how 
much Mr K owes, and its solicitors will have the latest information on how legal 
proceedings are going. But I havent seen anything to suggest to me that the 
difficulties Mr K had in communicating with TMB and its solicitors went beyond what 
was reasonable, and to some extent inevitable, in the circumstances.
I can see that TMB then sought to reschedule this hearing, after February 2019. But I 
think its important to note that by the time TMB was trying to have this hearing 
rescheduled, Mr K had already engaged very positively with TMB.
Mr K kept to his payment plan between February and August 2019. In September 
2019, he paid only around the CMP amount, without the overpayment, but 
overpayments began again in October 2019. In December 2019, and then again from 
February to April 2020, Mr K made very significant overpayments, going well beyond 
what hed agreed to overpay. That meant his arrears were entirely cleared by April 
2020. Mr K continued to overpay after this, and his mortgage was soon several 
months in credit.
So, by the time a witness statement was prepared for a second scheduled hearing, in 
June 2019, Mr K had some months of regular monthly overpayments behind him, 
showing good progress reducing his arrears. Whilst Mr Ks account did remain in 
substantial arrears, I dont think TMB should have taken steps which incurred further 
legal costs at this point.
I can see that TMB then sought again to have the hearing rescheduled in early 2020. 
I think that a number of mistakes were made in the witness statement which was 
supplied at this time, and I do think that these were material.
The witness statement Ive seen says Mr Ks arrears are around ten times what they 
actually were at this point. The statement says that there is no plan agreed, although 
at the time it was written, Mr K had been paying under his agreed plan for almost a 
year. This statement says that it was prepared for the second hearing in the case, but 
there doesnt appear to have been a first hearing at this point. And the statement 
does say TMB is seeking possession in 28 days, not a suspended possession order.
So the witness statement Mr K was sent in early 2020 threatened far more serious 
action than had been suggested before. And it justified this using a misrepresentation 
of the position of Mr Ks mortgage. I think that this witness statement must have been 
extremely distressing for Mr K. I can see he responded to this by continuing to make 
very large overpayments, much larger than previously agreed. Those cleared the 
arrears, and also took his mortgage some months in advance of payments due.
I can understand why Mr K responded in this way. I dont think Mr K shouldve had to 
do this.
Mr K then sought to have the legal proceedings brought to a close. While I wouldntordinarily expect this to be necessary, again, I can understand why Mr K responded 
in this way. And I dont think Mr K should have had to do this.
So I do think that TMB and its solicitors (who act for TMB, and for whose actions 
TMB is, in my view, responsible) have made mistakes here. And I think TMB should 
do something to put this right.
I note that TMB hasnt yet passed any legal costs on to Mr K, through adding them to 
his mortgage. I dont think that TMB should have continued with legal work, which 
does incur costs, after Mr K had shown he was engaging with it and demonstrated 
his willingness to reduce the arrears on his account. So I dont think that TMB should 
add any costs to Mr Ks mortgage that relates to work undertaken from June 2019 
onwards.
I also think that the actions of TMB, in submitting to court a document which gravely
misrepresented the position of Mr Ks mortgage and sought possession in 28 days, 
caused Mr K considerable distress, and inconvenience both in overpaying his 
mortgage, and working to have the remaining proceedings ended. For those reasons, 
I think that TMB should pay Mr K £500 in compensation now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties arent required to respond to my provisional decision, and may not do so if they 
have nothing to add. In this case, neither party has replied.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Mortgage Business Plc may not add to Mr Ks mortgage any 
costs relating to legal work undertaken from June 2019 onwards. And it must pay Mr K £500 
in compensation now.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman