DRN-2370684
The complaint
Mr T, a sole trader, has complained that One Insurance Limited avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) his motor insurance policy and refused to pay his claim. He wants records of 
the voidance removed, his claim paid and compensation for his increased premiums and 
trouble and upset.
What happened
Mr T took out a motor insurance policy with One Insurance through an online price 
comparison site. When his car was damaged whilst parked and unattended outside a clients 
house, he tried to claim on his policy. 
One Insurance declined his claim, avoided his policy and kept the premiums hed already 
paid. When Mr T complained, it said hed answered the question hed been asked about 
modifications to his car incorrectly. It said sign writing on the car was an undeclared 
modification. And that it considered this to be a qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it 
to avoid his policy and refuse his claim. 
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. She didnt 
agree there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. This was because she thought One 
Insurance hadnt made it clear to Mr T that modifications would include signage. She said 
One Insurance should consider Mr Ts claim, remove records of the voidance, pay for his 
repairs and pay him £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
One Insurance doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts policy with One Insurance was a private one for both business and personal use. So 
the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
One Insurance thinks Mr T failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he stated in his application via a comparison site that his car didnt have any 
modifications. Mr T had applied stickers advertising his business to his car. He said he didnt 
consider these were modifications. And so Ive looked at the question he was asked when 
he completed the application.
Mr T was asked Does the car have any modifications? A Help box stated:
Modifications are non-standard changes made to the car after manufacture. These include 
new spoilers, alloy wheels etc, but a tow-bar doesnt have to be listed.
Mr T answered No. The question was restated in the policys Statement of Fact. Mr T was 
sent his policy documents then and at renewal and he was asked to check them for 
accuracy and tell One Insurance about any changes. Examples of these included:
Modifications to any component of your vehicle (especially wheels, engine or bodywork.
One Insurance said Mr T should have disclosed that the car had signage on it as this was a 
cosmetic modification. But the examples provided on the online site and in the policy 
documents all refer to mechanical or structural modifications. Ive looked at the policy 
documents and I cant see that modifications are ever defined to include non-structural items 
such as signage. So I think that Mr T wasnt asked a clear question by One Insurance 
through the comparison site he used.
And so I think this means Mr T took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he said the car hadnt been modified. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied One Insurance was entitled to avoid Mr Ts policy in accordance 
with CIDRA. And, as this means that it unfairly avoided his policy, I think One Insurance 
does have to deal with his claim following the damage to his car. And  as CIDRA reflects 
our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing One Insurance to 
rely on it to avoid Mr Ts policy would be an unfair and unreasonable outcome in this 
complaint. 
Mr Ts policy was declared avoid whilst he was with a client. He couldnt then drive his car as 
the avoidance was immediate. He was caused embarrassment and trouble by this. The 
investigator recommended that One Insurance should pay him £150 compensation for this. I 
think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id require in similar 
circumstances. 
Mr T then had to find cover elsewhere at a higher premium. But I cant hold One Insurance 
responsible for the premiums charged by another insurer. Also, Mr T cant provide evidence 
of what difference the avoidance had on his quotes. But I think One Insurance should 
remove records of the avoidance and provide Mr T with a letter stating that his policy was 
avoided in error. He can then ask his new insurers to rerate his policy. 
Mr T also paid for his car to be repaired privately as One Insurance had unfairly declined the 
claim. I think One Insurance should reimburse him for the cost of this, £296. And, as Mr T 
has been without his money for some time, I think it should reasonably add interest to this 
amount.
 Putting things rightTo restore Mr Ts position, I require One Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Remove records of the avoidance from any internal or external databases where its 
been recorded and provide Mr T with a letter stating that the policy was avoided in error.
2. Pay Mr T £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
avoidance of his policy.
3. Reimburse Mr T £296 for the cost of the repairs he made because of the declined claim, 
adding interest at 8% simple per annum to this amount from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman