DRN-3747172
The complaint
Mr G complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) didnt offer to 
complete repairs following water damage to his home, and its cash settlement offer was less 
than the repairs cost.
What happened
Mr G had buildings and contents insurance with LV. He suspected there was a leak from the 
waste pipe, so he claimed under his policy. LV accepted the claim.
After liaising with LVs loss adjuster, Mr G went ahead with the damage repairs using his 
own contractor. However, LV only offered to reimburse around half of what it cost Mr G to 
have the work done. He complained, but LV said the policy terms and conditions allowed it 
to settle the claim at what it wouldve cost its contractors to do the work if Mr G chose to use 
his own. But Mr G said he didnt choose to use his own contractor: he just wasn't offered the 
option of using LVs contractors. LV maintained its offer, so Mr G brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator said LV had made an offer in line with the policy, so she didnt think LV had 
done anything wrong.
Mr G didnt agree. He said as long as it was done quickly he didnt care who did the work, 
and he repeated his claim that LV hadnt offered him any other options.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Gs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The damage, and the extent of work needed to repair the damage, isnt in dispute. And LV 
accepted the claim. So, the issues Ive considered, here, are:
Whether LV gave Mr G the option to use its contractors for the work, or enough 
information that he ought to have realised that was an option, and 
Whether LVs offer to cash settle Mr Gs claim at what it wouldve cost it to do the 
work was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The policy sets out what Mr G needed to do when he first notified LV of his claim, as follows:
Follow these simple steps:
1. Check youre covered by looking at this booklet and your personal details;
2. Call us as soon after the incident as possible  please have your policy details and 
information about the claim ready when you call;
3. Speak to us before you make any arrangements for replacement or repair;
Although I havent received a copy of the call, the subsequent events suggest that Mr G 
followed the instructions.
At the point Mr G made his claim, Id expect LV to explain to Mr G what the next steps would 
be. It appears to have done so because it arranged a site visit to assess the damage.
But its from here that communication broke down.
Mr G said the loss adjuster who inspected the damage told him to get it fixed as soon as 
possible. Given that it was a leaking waste pipe limiting Mr Gs use of his bathroom facilities, 
I think his account is entirely plausible, so I have no reason to doubt it. What isnt clear, 
though, is whether that meant he should get just the leak fixed or the overall damage. 
Mr Gs plumber was on site at the same time as the loss adjuster and I understand he went 
ahead and fixed the leak over the subsequent days after experiencing some difficulty. The 
repair to stop the leak isnt covered under the policy, so Mr Gs decision to go ahead with 
that work isnt in question.
From here, evidence in the form of a text conversation shows that Mr G gave the loss 
adjuster a quote for the damage repairs and said work would start later that day. The loss 
adjuster said it was more than the insurers rates and asked for a breakdown of costs. The 
loss adjuster didnt say anything about LV not covering the full cost if work did start, or that 
LV could do the repairs. I think this was a missed opportunity on LVs part to provide clarity.
Around five days later, Mr G provided an update to the loss adjuster to say that the leak 
repair had been more difficult than expected, so work on the damage repairs hadnt started. I 
havent seen any further messages to say whether or not the loss adjuster responded.
So, based on the evidence up to this point, Im satisfied that Mr G fulfilled his obligation to, 
Speak to us before you make any arrangements for replacement or repair .
The policy sets out LVs commitment to Mr G as follows:
Our commitment to you
Well always:
give you clear and correct information;
be fair and reasonable;
act as quickly as we can.
Ive already commented on one missed opportunity to provide clarity. A week later, LV called 
Mr G to apologise for the delay sending a scope of works, which wasnt available. LV said it 
told Mr G he may not receive a settlement for the full cost if he arranged the work himself. 
After a further week passed, Mr G called LV to ask for a cash settlement, but its scope of 
work was still not available. LV said it repeated its confirmation that Mr Gs full costs might 
not be covered. Its worth noting that by this time, Mr Gs contractor had already completed 
the repairs.
I asked for call recordings so I could hear whether LV told Mr G about using its own 
contractors, but LV wasn't able to provide them. So, I must base my decision on the 
evidence I have and what is more likely to have happened. Turning to the policy, it says:
How will my buildings claim be settled?
If the loss or damage is covered by this insurance well agree with you to:
arrange for repair or replacement using one of our suppliers; or
pay the cost of repair; or
make a cash payment.
Well pay the full cost of any repair or replacement costs we have
agreed to pay. 
Cash payments
If we can offer a repair or replacement through one of our suppliers and you choose not 
to have the item repaired or replaced or you wish to use you own supplier, we will not pay 
more than the amount we would have paid our supplier. If were unable to offer repair or 
an equivalent replacement is not available, well pay the nearest cash equivalent 
LV confirmed in its final response letter to Mr G that it wouldnt have told him during its first 
call that he had the option of using its contractors.
While the policy, quoted above, does say LV wont pay more than it would cost it to complete 
the repairs if Mr G chose to use his own contractors, I havent seen any evidence to show 
that LV offered to arrange a repair. There was contact between Mr G and LV before the 
repairs were completed, but before LV provided its scope of work, during which LV couldve 
offered its contractors. Therefore, I think it was reasonable for Mr G to expect that LV would 
settle his claim by paying the cost of repair or as a cash settlement. And because theres no 
evidence LV offered a repair, I dont think its fair to cash settle only at what it wouldve cost 
using its own suppliers.
In summary, then, I find Mr Gs account of events more compelling than the limited evidence 
provided by LV. I havent seen evidence to show that LV properly guided Mr G through the 
claim process. And, given that LV didnt provide a scope of work until a month after the loss 
adjusters visit, its understandable that Mr G went ahead and used his own contractor to fix, 
and repair damage caused by the waste-water leak. 
I said I was minded to require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to:
reimburse Mr G the full cost of the repairs, and 
pay 8% simple interest* on the cash settlement from the date Mr G paid the invoice 
to the date Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited makes payment to him.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr G didnt have anything more to add. Although, after noting that I hadnt heard his first 
notification of loss (FNOL) call with LV, he offered to send a copy of the recording. 
LV didnt agree with my provisional decision. It confirmed it didnt have any call recordings as 
evidence. However, LV said it was documented in its records and discussed with Mr G 
during the FNOL call that if he used his own contractor LV would need to agree costs.
Further to this, LV said Mr G went ahead with the work even though he knew it wouldnt 
cover his costs, so it wouldve been reasonable to expect him to explore other options. And 
although it couldnt provide evidence of offering its contractors, LV said its actions surely 
indicate that it was prepared to do the works, especially when it couldnt agree Mr Gs costs.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive now listened to the FNOL call, which Mr G kindly provided. Despite what LV said, I didnt 
hear any evidence that LV told Mr G if he used his own contractor it would need to agree 
costs. Instead, I heard the following:
LV told Mr G it would appoint a contractor to go through what needed repairing. 
Mr G mentioned he already had someone working on his kitchen who could quote.
LV said Mr G could use his own contractor as long as he didnt go ahead until hed 
seen LVs contractor.
Mr G confirmed, his contractor shouldnt do anything until hed seen LVs contractor.
LV agreed that was correct.
At no point in this conversation were costs discussed, yet it wouldve been an appropriate 
time to do so. While LV says its actions indicate it was prepared to do the work, I cant 
agree. Mr G did what he shouldve done, which was to, Speak to us before you make any 
arrangements for replacement or repair. LV shouldve made the situation clear to Mr G in 
line with its responsibility as set out in the policy, Well always: give you clear and correct 
information. I dont think its done so, here.
Im not disregarding LVs recorded evidence that it told Mr G his costs may not be covered if 
he used his own contractor. But LV hasnt provided evidence which persuades me it made 
that clear to Mr G before the repairs were completed. Nor has it provided anything to show 
that it offered to do the work.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Gs 
complaint and Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited must:
reimburse Mr G the full cost of the repairs, and 
pay 8% simple interest* on the cash settlement from the date Mr G paid the invoice 
to the date Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited makes payment to him.
*If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr G a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman