DRN-2304866
The complaint
Ms R has complained about BUPA Insurance Limiteds decision to decline her claim for eye 
treatment under her private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms R experienced a sudden deterioration of vision in her left eye. BUPA provided 
authorisation for her to see a consultant to obtain a diagnosis.
Ms Rs consultant diagnosed that she was suffering from branch retinal vein occlusion 
(RVO). When her vision subsequently worsened, the consultant recommended that she 
undergo an injection into her eye to treat the problem.
Ms R asked BUPA to provide cover for this procedure but it refused. It said her condition 
was chronic under the terms of the policy.
Ms R complained to BUPA about its decision but it wouldnt change this. Ms R therefore self-
funded her treatment and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. While he accepted that 
RVO was a chronic condition under the terms of the policy, he considered that Ms Rs 
treatment should be covered on the grounds it was an acute flare up of that condition.
BUPA didnt accept the investigators findings. It said that Ms Rs treatment was designed to 
provide temporary relief of her symptoms and wouldnt cure the underlying RVO. It said the 
treatment might have to continue indefinitely and therefore wasnt eligible under the policy, 
even under the exception for acute flare ups of chronic conditions. It said that our service 
had supported its position on this a number of times in the past and that it could see no 
reason why Ms Rs circumstances should cause us to depart from this established stance.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states:
We do not pay for treatment of chronic conditions. By this, we mean a disease, illness or 
injury which has at least one of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups 
and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back.
Exception: We pay for eligible treatment arising out of a chronic condition, or for treatment of 
acute symptoms of a chronic condition that flare up. However, we only pay if the treatment is 
likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you being restored fully to your previous 
state of health, without you having to receive prolonged treatment. For example, we pay for 
treatment following a heart attack arising out of chronic heart disease. This exception does 
not apply to treatment of a mental health condition. 
BUPA declined the claim on the grounds that RVO has no known cure and is therefore a 
chronic condition. Our investigator didnt dispute this. However, he noted that Ms Rs 
consultant had advised it was highly likely that the macular oedema, which was a symptom 
of the RVO and had given rise to Ms Rs vision problems, would be resolved through one or 
two injections. The investigator thought it reasonable that the macular oedema should 
therefore be seen as an acute symptom of the RVO which had flared up and which was 
therefore eligible for cover under the exception to the chronic condition clause noted above.
I consider this is a reasonable view to take. The treatment was expected to lead quickly to 
the restoration of Ms Rs eyesight. It doesnt matter that the RVO itself is a chronic condition 
and that the treatment was not attempting to cure this. I consider the treatment was eligible 
under the rules of the policy. 
BUPA has shown us its internal guidelines which say that it wont provide cover for this 
treatment. However, I dont consider this is consistent with the terms of its policy. If BUPA 
wants automatically to exclude treatment of acute symptoms of RVO, it should amend its 
policy document to state this explicitly.
BUPA has also referred to past decisions by this service. I have looked at those decisions. 
However, as BUPA is aware, each case is judged on its own merits and in this case Im 
satisfied that Ms R's treatment was eligible for cover.
I understand that Ms R received her first injection in about June 2020 and that by December 
2020 Ms R had actually undergone four injections, rather than the one or two originally 
envisaged by her consultant. I dont know whether Ms Rs policy was still in force at the time 
she received her fourth injection. For the avoidance of doubt, I consider that BUPA should 
provide cover for Ms Rs treatment up to the end of December 2020, provided this treatment 
was received while Ms Rs policy was still in force. I consider that BUPA does not need to 
provide cover for any treatment beyond this because the treatment could then no longer be 
said to leading quickly to the restoration of her previous state of health.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require BUPA Insurance Limited to accept Ms Rs claim and provide cover in line with the 
policys remaining terms and conditions for her treatment until the end of December 2020 (or 
until her policy ended, if sooner). If Ms R has paid the eligible costs herself, BUPA should 
reimburse her and add interest at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date she 
paid the invoices until the date of settlement.* 
* If BUPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms R how much its taken off. It should also give Ms R a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman