DRN-3202343
The complaint
Mr D complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) refused to let 
him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr D acquired a new electric car at a cost of £17,796 funded in part by a 
finance agreement with MBFS. Shortly after taking delivery Mr D complained to the dealer 
that the car wasnt attaining the mileage he had been led to believe. Mr D has told this 
service that the car was to be used to for regular journeys of 26 miles to visit a relative and 
back. The average range per charge he was able to achieve was around 52 miles.
The dealer tested the car and said that it exceeded the predicted range each time. It also 
liaised with the manufacturer and performed a number of checks and downloaded data. The 
conclusion was that the car was performing as expected.
Mr D asked to reject the car and there seems to have been some confusion about this. 
However, in the end rejection was not accepted by either the dealer or MBFS. The car was 
subjected to an independent inspection and the report which concluded that the car wasnt 
faulty. 
Mr D said the inspection had several flaws, the car had been charged using a 3-stage high 
voltage system which wasnt available to him for domestic use. It also didnt include a 
diagnostic test or comparison with an identical car. Mr D said that he hadnt thought, as had 
been suggested by the inspector that the car was losing range after charging.
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted the records which Mr D had 
kept which showed an average predicted range of some 63 miles, but the actual range 
achieved was around 52 miles. 
She noted the marketing material on the manufacturers website, which showed an operating 
range of 77-78 miles. In the small print, it explains this was determined according a 
prescribed measurement method  Worldwide Harmonised Light Vehicle Test Procedure 
(WLTP). Cars across the world are advertised using this measure. Doing so enables 
consumers to compare vehicle specs on a like for like basis. She explained that this 
measure is obtained in very specific laboratory conditions. She added that the manufacturer 
was obliged to advertise the range obtained under these specific conditions.
She said she had no reason to doubt that the data was accurate though this did not mean 
that in real life driving that this range would be achieved. She referenced the various factors 
which can impact the range and concluded there was no basis to say the advertising 
material was incorrect.
She added that there was no evidence that the car was faulty and she had no reason to 
disagree with the inspectors conclusions.
Mr D didnt agree and said that he didnt have a 3-phase charger and all electric vehicles 
should charge to the battery range specified in the brochure. He said that the majority of 
charges he had recorded were in the low 60s. but that was reducing to around 59. He said 
that the dealer had originally offered to replace the car, but it had changed its mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MBFS is also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
There are two issues I have to consider; one was the car misrepresented by the dealer 
and/or the manufacturer and two, was it faulty at the point of sale
A misrepresentation is when a false statement of fact has been made and that false 
statement of fact induced a consumer to purchase the goods or services. In order to find a 
misrepresentation has occurred, there must be proof that a false statement of fact has been 
made and it needs to be decided that that false statement induced the consumer to enter 
into the agreement.
The marketing material sets out the range as prescribed using the WLTP method. This gives 
a figure achieved under specified conditions. This figure may not be attained in real world 
driving, but it does allow for comparison to be made between different vehicles. It seems that 
in almost all cases the range achieved by electric vehicles in day to day driving is somewhat 
lower than the WLTP figures. I cannot say that the figure used for this car are inaccurate and 
I have noted the small print makes it clear that day to day driving will produce a different 
result. As such I can say there was misrepresentation.
The second issue is whether the car was faulty at the point of sale and is delivering a lower 
range than it should due to some fault. I have studied the records maintained by Mr D and 
have noted his other electric vehicle does not suffer the same issues as this one.
I have also noted Mr Ds argument that the predicted range after charge is not as high as it 
should be. I have no supporting evidence that would, allow me to identify that as a fault at 
the point of sale. The difficulty have is that I have an independent report from an expert which does not support that conclusion. While he may have had the benefit of the car being 
charged with 3-phase charger, but that of itself does not mean that his conclusion is invalid.
Added to that is the view expressed by the dealer that it managed to achieve a higher range 
when it tested the car in real life situations. I also gather the matter has been considered by 
the manufacturer which has been unable to find grounds for saying the range is below what 
would be expected. I would add that any suggestion that the dealer was prepared to accept 
rejection does not mean that rejection is the appropriate outcome.
This model of car has a low range and is impacted by a variety of factors in everyday use. I 
am not sure that the predicted range can be held as a benchmark as to the actual achieved 
mileage. Again, the various factors will affect the actual mileage achieved and it is 
regrettable that the 52-mile round trip which Mrs D uses regularly is on the limit of the cars 
range in the real-life circumstances of that particular journey. 
I appreciate Mr Ds frustration with the situation and the limitations he and his wife encounter 
with the use of the car, but I cannot safely conclude that t wasnt fit for purpose or that it was 
misrepresented.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman