DRN-1665353
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc has been unable to reduce his mortgage 
payments while he is experiencing financial difficulty. To settle the complaint Mr S wants 
Barclays to allow him to pay £10 per month for a fixed term and to reduce the interest rate 
on his current account.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
What led to the complaint being brought can be summarised as follows. 
Mr S has a mortgage with Barclays, through its residential mortgage lending business, 
Woolwich, taken out in July 2006. He borrowed £63,000 over a period of 15 years on a 
capital repayment basis. The mortgage is due to end next year.
The mortgage also came with a Mortgage Current Account Reserve (MCAR). This is an 
overdraft facility which allows a borrower to draw against capital already paid off the 
mortgage, subject to Barclays terms and conditions. In line with any other overdraft, it is 
repayable on demand. It must be repaid in full when the mortgage account is closed, either 
at the end of the mortgage term or if the mortgage is repaid before the end date. From the 
annual mortgage statements, it appears Mr S has used the MCAR to its fullest extent. The 
interest rate on the MCAR is Barclays Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
Barclays records show that Mr S doesnt live at the mortgaged property, changing his UK 
address in Barclays records in 2011, and having lived abroad for some years.  
Due to injury sustained in 2012, Mr S was unable to pursue his career and so fell into 
financial difficulties. Mr S has a number of products with Barclays, including the mortgage 
and MCAR, and in 2018 Mr S contacted Barclays to see what could be done to help him with 
all his debts. 
Mr S was able to repay the mortgage arrears of just over £4,000 in October 2018. He 
returned to the UK in July 2019, and sought help from Barclays. But unfortunately Mr S has 
struggled to make the full mortgage repayment of about £370 per month or payment of about 
£185 towards the MCAR. On the advice of StepChange, he began paying just the interest on 
the mortgage, £10 per month.
Unfortunately, after looking at Mr Ss financial position Barclays didnt think it could offer any 
solution to Mr Ss financial difficulties. Thats because there were no options which would be 
affordable. Any short-term measures would only make his financial situation worse, given 
that the mortgage term is due to end in 2021.
In July 2019 Mr S complained to Barclays. He said he could afford only the interest on the 
mortgage  and as the term had only two years left to run, Mr S said that the interest was 
only £10 per month. Mr S was unhappy that he was being charged £185 per month on the 
MCAR, and thought the interest rate was too high. Mr S said hed looked at equity release, 
but most providers wouldnt lend the full amount he needed. Mr S also explained that he was 
trying to sell a property in Thailand, which would release some funds.
Barclays reviewed what Mr S said, but wasnt able to offer the concessions Mr S wanted.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr S complained to us. An investigator looked at the 
complaint but didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly. The investigator explained to Mr S that 
it wouldnt be right for Barclays to agree to any arrangement that wasnt affordable, given 
Mr Ss financial situation. 
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He maintains that Barclays isnt 
treating him fairly and that the interest rate applied to the MCAR is too high.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive read the detailed timeline of events Mr S has sent us setting out his contact 
with Barclays since April 2018. Ive reviewed the mortgage account and MCAR statements 
and Ive looked at the regulations which apply where a customer is in financial difficulty.
I appreciate that Mr S is unhappy at the interest rate charged on the MCAR, which is 
Barclays SVR. This is the contract rate to which he agreed and is the same for all customers 
who have a MCAR attached to their mortgage. I dont think its unfair for Barclays to charge 
interest on the MCAR at the rate specified in the contract, in the same way as other 
customers in the same circumstances.
In relation to the mortgage, the starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat all 
customers, but particularly those facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one 
of the fundamental principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the 
right to receive payment of the money owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. UK 
Finance, (formerly the Council of Mortgage Lenders) also has its own guidelines about what 
it expects lenders to do to comply with MCOB, which mirror closely the requirements of 
MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved, for example, temporary unemployment, or a borrower being on maternity leave.For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such transferring a 
mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
It would not be fair to put in place an arrangement which would ultimately make a borrowers 
position worse. Mr Ss financial situation is such that even a short-term arrangement such as 
an interest-only concession on the mortgage would, at the end of the arrangement, result in 
Mr Ss financial position being even more tenuous. 
This is because when a short-term payment arrangement comes to an end, any unpaid 
interest or capital is added back to the loan and has to be repaid before the end of the loan 
term  which in this case is next year. Even if Barclays had agreed to a concession for six 
months, at the end of that period Mr Ss repayments would increase. As he cant afford the 
repayments at the moment, this would put him in an even more difficult situation. 
Extending the mortgage term would only be viable if Mr S is able to demonstrate that he has 
the income to pay the mortgage off over an extended term. Unfortunately, he does not.
So in all the circumstances, although I appreciate Mr S is likely to disagree with me, I dont 
think Barclays has been unfair in the way its dealt with Mr Ss financial difficulties. 
I fully understand that Mr S has been through a very difficult time; his health issues have in 
turn caused financial hardship which I have no doubt has resulted in great stress to Mr S. 
But the extent to which Barclays is able to help him is very limited, given the regulatory 
parameters within which the bank is required to operate to ensure any arrangement is 
sustainable and affordable, and Mr Ss lack of income. 
I think if Mr S had been in the process of selling the property and had evidence of this, 
Barclays might have been able to agree to a concession pending the sale, given that the 
mortgage term is so close to its end. That would be a matter for Barclays discretion.  
But according to information online, the property may recently have been rented out at a rent 
of £600 per month. If this is correct, it will enable Mr S to cover the mortgage repayment of 
£377 per month and the £185 towards the MCAR. It would be helpful if Mr S could update 
Barclays about this and provide the bank with a copy of the tenancy agreement. I would 
remind Mr S that by the end of the mortgage term when the debt becomes payable in full, 
the property should not be encumbered by any other party with any right of occupation in it, 
such as a tenant.
Before the mortgage comes to an end in about a years time, Mr S will need to think about 
how he intends to repay the mortgage and MCAR in full. Barclays has said that, given Mr Ss 
financial situation, extending the mortgage term would not appear to be an option. I also note 
Mr S has already explored equity release, which he says will not raise enough funds to repay 
his debts. But if Mr S intends to rent out the property long-term, he might find it helpful to 
speak to an independent financial adviser to see if he can arrange a buy-to-let mortgage on 
the property in order to repay Barclays mortgage.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for, and I am sorry if this decision adds to his 
distress. But for the reasons given above, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the way its handled Mr Ss financial difficulties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman