DRN-2755275
The complaint
E has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited declined a third-party claim it made, under 
the Third Parties (Rights against Insurers) Act 2010 (the Act), in respect of a policy taken out 
by another company, B. The policy was underwritten by Ageas when the alleged insured 
event took place. E is represented in its complaint by Mr L.
What happened
Mr L operated a barge business, E.  It owned a barge that was moored together with a barge 
owned by B. Both barges were set on fire by an arson attack in 2014, causing E financial 
losses of more than £50,000. At the time of the fire, Es barge was uninsured. An 
investigation followed the arson attack, a number of arrests were made, and prosecutions 
undertaken with at least two criminal convictions handed down by the court. But Mr L 
informed us that the case against the main conspirators was dismissed.
As B was insured by Ageas, and entered into liquidation in October 2018, E attempted to 
make a third party claim under the Act against Bs insurance policy with Ageas. Mr L says he 
was told that third party liability would be covered by Bs policy, but nothing could be done 
until the court cases in relation to the arson attack had concluded. 
Mr L told us that during the years since the arson attack, he and his family had suffered 
greatly with stress and the financial pressure the attack caused. He also said hes had a 
heart attack and the whole issue has affected his health negatively as he invested his life 
savings in the boat and after only six months he saw it go up in flames.
Ageas is represented in this matter by solicitors, who Ill refer to as K. In October 2019, K 
wrote to E to deny liability and to advise that an indemnity wouldnt be provided in the 
circumstances. They said Mr L hadnt proven that B was responsible for the fire, and even if 
he had, B wouldnt have received the benefit of any insurance cover, due to the 
circumstances of the fire, so under the Act, E also wouldnt receive any indemnity. 
K explained that with regard to the part of the policy that provided insurance for public 
liability, an indemnity would only be provided where there was damage to any material 
property arising out of or in connection with the business of renting canal boats. As the 
damage caused to Es barge wasnt as a result of B carrying out its business, Ageas said it 
wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms and conditions. 
E brought a complaint to our service about Ageas refusal to accept its claim, in August 
2020. Ageas initially challenged Es eligibility to bring a complaint to our service, so on 2 
March 2021, I issued a jurisdiction decision confirming that we did have the necessary power 
to investigate Es complaint under the Act. I explained that the aim of the Act is to enable a 
third party to claim compensation for losses caused by an insolvent person or company who 
has insurance covering the risk of legal liability to third parties. 
I concluded that the Act did give E a devolved legal right to benefit from a claim against 
Ageas, thus making E eligible to bring the complaint to this service. We therefore could 
investigate whether or not there were potential third-party rights. 
I went on to clarify that before E would be able to recover any monies from Ageas, this 
service would need to consider the merits of the complaint to establish whether or not Ageas 
is liable for the claim. I explained that Ageas wouldnt have to indemnify a third party, under 
the Act, if in law it would not have had to indemnify its own policyholder. I invited both parties 
to provide their arguments and information in relation to the merits of Es complaint. 
Ageas made the following submissions: 
it had conducted its indemnity enquiries and had repudiated Es claim on the basis 
that the policy would not have responded to a claim from the policyholder, B, 
because the fire had been started deliberately, by a third party; 
the purpose of the Act was to place E in the same position it would have been in had 
B still been solvent. But as Ageas wouldnt have indemnified B, its under no 
obligation under the Act to indemnity E;
in any event, even if the fire wasnt deliberate, the public liability section of the policy 
says that indemnity will only be provided in circumstances where the damage to the 
property was directly connected with Bs business of rending canal boats, which 
wasnt the case here; and 
it maintained its position that no insured peril operates in these circumstances and 
cover wouldnt have been provided to B, so Ageas doesnt need to indemnify E, 
under the Act.
Our investigator then proceeded to look into the merits of Es complaint. On 31 March 2021 
she issued her view not upholding the complaint. In the view our investigator explained:
although Es barge had been moored to Bs barge, as that wasnt notified to Ageas, 
Ageas hadnt agreed to cover any damage under the policy, in the event it arose;
the public liability section of Bs insurance policy only covered damage arising out of 
and in connection with the business of providing a hire service of canal boats. 
However, the available evidence indicated the damage was caused by an arson 
attack. As it wasnt related to the business of providing a hire service  the damage 
wouldnt be covered by the policy; and 
Ageas therefore wasnt liable for the damage caused to E;s barge, because the 
insured peril Mr L was claiming for, wasnt covered by the insurance policy.
E didnt accept our investigators view. Mr L asked our investigator to confirm she had seen 
the full policy terms and questioned whether the policy was fit for use. He re-iterated that 
Ageas broker told him that a third-party claim would be considered following the result of the 
court outcome. He said that an employee of one of the directors of B had been convicted of 
a criminal offence in relation to the arson attack. He also told our investigator that the police 
had evidence to show the directors of B had received a text to say the job had been done, 
at the time of the incident. Mr L requested an ombudsmans decision on Es complaint and 
asked that the ombudsman take account of the Marine Insurance Act 1906 in coming to their 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my jurisdiction decision, the aim of the Act is to enable a third party to claim 
compensation for losses caused by an insolvent person or company who has insurance 
covering the risk of legal liability to third parties. However, before the third party can recover 
the insurance monies from the insurer, they must first establish the insureds liability for the 
loss.
That is the point at which Es claim fails. Mr L has provided evidence to show that Es barge 
was destroyed by a fire caused by an arson attack. Hes also shown that certain persons 
were convicted by the courts for the arson attack. And hes explained how he believes those 
persons are linked to directors of B. 
While Mr L makes some compelling points, the explanation and evidence hes provided 
arent sufficient to persuade me that its more likely than not, that B was liable for the losses 
E has suffered as a result of the fire. 
And even if Mr L had proven that B was ultimately responsible for the arson attack and 
damage to Es barge (which he hasnt done) the insured peril would need to be covered by 
Bs insurance policy, which it isnt.
The cover provided for public liability is set out in Section 4(B) of the policy terms and 
conditions, starting on page 100. Our investigator has provided a copy of this section to 
Mr L. 
Paragraph 1 says that Ageas will indemnify B against legal liability in respect of damage to 
any material Property including damage to vessels in its custody and control (paragraph 
12.1.1). Arguably, as Es barge was moored to Bs barge, it was in its custody and control. 
However, the provision goes on to say that the damage must arise out of and be in 
connection with the Business, which in Bs case, was the business of renting canal boats.
In this case, the damage arose out of an arson attack, unrelated to the renting of a canal 
boat, so not connected to Bs business. The damage therefore wasnt a result of an insured 
peril under the policy.
In addition, I note that the indemnity in paragraph 1 is against legal liability, and while Mr L 
has made some submissions about the potential legal liability of B, for the damage, that 
liability hasnt been established. So, at the current time, there is only a hypothetical legal 
liability, which isnt the subject of an indemnity under the policy terms and conditions. 
In conclusion, while I remain of the view that E was able to bring a claim against Bs policy 
with Ageas under the Act, Im not satisfied that E has established Bs liability for its loss. I 
therefore dont consider that Ageas has unreasonably declined Es claim, so I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman