DRN-4014893
The complaint
 A company which Ill refer to as H complains that through their solicitors, Belmont Green 
Finance Limited trading as Vida Homeloans (Vida) caused delays during its purchase of a 
buy to let property (the Property).  
In bringing this complaint, H is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr F. 
What happened
 The background to the complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 6 February 
2023 which forms part of this decision. 
I provisionally concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. On the substance of the 
complaint, I said - in summary that: 
Having regard to the timeline Vida have set out as well the available evidence 
concerning the actions of their solicitors who I referred to as G, I was satisfied on 
balance that Vida did not cause any material delay in the purchase of the Property. 
I noted the correspondence that the sellers of the Property sent to their estate agents 
at the time they took the decision to place the Property on the market again at a 
higher asking price.  In it the sellers explained that on 29th November 2021 theyd 
accepted the offer to purchase the Property based on Mr Fs assurance that H was a 
cash buyer who didnt need a mortgage and therefore the sale would proceed 
quickly. But, as the sellers observed, Mr F decided after all to take out a mortgage 
which made the purchase transaction more complex.
Furthermore, the correspondence also suggested that when the sellers took the 
decision to increase the asking price for the Property, they were aware the legal 
formalities were more or less completed. But it appeared that at the time they were 
balancing the extent to which theyd already lost out financially in terms rental 
income, ongoing and increased mortgage payments, service charge as well as 
missing out on the increase in property value. So, even if I concluded G did cause 
delay  which I not - I didnt think I could safely conclude that was the primary, if at all 
reason the sellers demanded a higher purchase price from H.  
In relation to the completion of the purchase of the Property using Hs own funds, 
because of the delay I was not persuaded Vida could be held responsible for that 
either. H had Vidas new offer of mortgage on 5 May 2022 the day scheduled for 
exchange of contracts. I noted an e-mail that Hs solicitors (K) sent to H at the time. K 
warned H that having received Vidas revised mortgage offer that: 
 If we proceed and complete with your funds, I am unsure whether the lenders 
solicitor will start the process in its entirety again with a new offer. I am not able to 
confirm either way, but wanted to mention the possibility that they might as I
imagine this will add time and frustration, which of course it would be preferrable to 
avoid.
Vida accepted my provisional decision, but H didnt. On its behalf Mr F said  in summary:
From the beginning of the process G did not understand for whom they were acting. 
G believed that they were acting for H, the buyer, and K were acting for the seller. 
E-mail exchanges between G and K in March 2022 show that misapprehension 
persisted. In particular, on 21 March 2022 K sent the contract pack to G and asked if 
they required anything further. G responded to say the contract had to be amended 
to show K was acting for the seller. K had then to call G to straighten things out and 
to further confirm G were acting for the lender not the buyer. 
So, the misapprehension by G that they were acting for H continued until late in the 
conveyancing process. G failed to act properly and had no proper regard for the time 
that was being lost whilst they resolved for whom they were acting. 
The delays H experienced were not of the administrative type sometimes 
experienced in conveyancing transactions. And in any case, in an e-mail dated 1 
April 2022, G said they would not start work until they received an undertaking from 
K to pay their fees. G did not therefore begin work on behalf of Vida until after that 
date which further demonstrates they were responsible for delays.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my Provisional 
Decision. Ill explain why.  
It isnt uncommon in conveyancing transactions for the same solicitors to act for the 
mortgage lender as well as the buyer. Ive seen correspondence dated 5 and 7 January 
2022 from G to Mr F that was likely to give the impression they, rather than K were acting for 
H. Gs 7 January 2022 email for example attaching Gs Engagement Letter thanking Mr F for 
his instructions to act for H and enclosing also their Terms of Business. So, I agree with Mr F 
that at the start of the process it appears there was confusion on Gs part whether G were 
indeed acting both for Vida as well H. 
That being said, Im satisfied the mortgage offer that Vida issued a few days later on 10 
January made the position clear. The offer letter confirmed K was acting on behalf of H. And 
although Mr F anticipated G might already have had a copy, on 18 January 2022 Mr F sent 
G another copy of the mortgage offer. So, the likelihood is that after the mortgage offer had 
been issued G would have known that K were acting for H.
  
I note Mr Fs suggestion that Gs initial misunderstanding persisted for some time into the 
conveyancing process and contributed to the delay H complained about. But Im not 
persuaded this was indeed the case. I have seen no persuasive evidence to indicate that 
apart from their initial misunderstanding as Gs January 2022 correspondence show, G continued to behave as though they, rather than K were acting for H, let alone that this 
misapprehension contributed to the delays H complained about. I say that for the following 
reasons:
In February 2022, G told Mr F they were waiting for contracts from the sellers 
solicitors. Vida told us it was not until 21 March 2022 G received the contracts pack 
from K. This is borne out by Mr Fs testimony as well as correspondence from G to 
Mr F on the same day where G also said: 
 We have spoken to the estate agent who is going to come back to us with a 
revised memo of sale showing the correct parties in this transaction so that we 
can communicate with the vendors solicitors
Vida have explained that after receiving the results of their searches, on 1 April 2022, 
G notified K of the remaining documents that were needed whereas K didnt respond 
until 20 April, when they confirmed theyd passed Gs enquiries to the sellers 
solicitors. 
Vida also explained that for the rest of April until early May, there were further 
exchanges of correspondence between G and K in which G chased K for missing 
items of information. 
These are important timelines presented to me in Vidas testimony. Unfortunately, there is no 
evidence from K rebutting that testimony. So, based on the evidence before me, not only am 
I not persuaded G were mistaken about who they were acting on behalf of, it is also difficult 
to conclude G caused delays for which Vida were ultimately responsible. 
And neither have I been persuaded by the available evidence G did not begin their work in 
connection with the sale of the Property until after 1 April, as Mr F believes took place. The 
evidence, not least Gs correspondence with Mr F in February 2022, as I noted above, does 
not support that conclusion. 
Im satisfied in light of Hs mortgage offer that G were in any event entitled to seek 
assurance from K regarding their fees. The mortgage offer said the following:
a conveyancing fee payable to Vida Homeloans' conveyancers on completion of the 
mortgage for carrying out the necessary legal work on their behalf. Based on similar 
mortgage transactions, we would expect this additional fee to be around £500.00 but 
this is only an indication 
The document also included the following: 
The borrowers solicitor / legal adviser in this transaction is as follows:
[K Solicitors]
The borrower is reminded that they are responsible for payment of all costs, fees, and 
expenses associated with this mortgage, incurred by both solicitors acting.
In view of all that Ive said above, Ive not been persuaded G caused delay in the purchase 
of the Property and that by extension Vida should be held responsible for that delay and the 
increase in the purchase price demanded of H by the seller. 
   
My final decision
 My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman