DRN-3824310
The complaint
Mrs G complained about issues at a Lloyds branch when she went to make a payment. She 
wants an apology from Lloyds, and more compensation than Lloyds has paid her.
What happened
On 1 April 2022, Mrs G went to a Lloyds branch. She wanted to transfer money from her 
account to buy gold. She said she was told that the account to which she wanted to transfer 
the money was a scam company, and Lloyds wouldnt carry out the transfer. 
The next day, 2 April, Mrs G returned. She saw a different cashier, and said she wanted to 
transfer money for payment for a sofa. She took with her an email to her, which branch staff 
thought was a suspect email. Mrs G was taken to a private room to ask her about Lloyds 
concerns, where she spoke to the manager. 
Theres a difference in the evidence about what happened:
- Mrs G said shed got the businesss details from a friend so she was sure the 
company wasnt a scam. She said the cashier had shouted at her and she was 
embarrassed in front of other people. Mrs G said she didnt swear and only slightly 
raised her voice after she was shouted at. Mrs G said the manager was wearing a 
black face mask so she felt frightened.
- Lloyds said that when Mrs G was in the private room with the manager, she shouted 
and swore at the manager, while banging on the desk. Lloyds said that its manager 
politely asked her to stop, because the bank was trying to support her. 
Lloyds called the police, in line with its standard procedures. Lloyds said that while awaiting 
the police, Mrs G left the branch, shouting and swearing, and other staff and customers that 
tried to intervene.
On 8 April Lloyds issued a Warning letter. It said that it was writing following the incident of 
verbal abuse. If there was a repeat or that or any similar incident, it would have no choice 
but to give her notice to close her account, in line with its acceptable customer behaviour 
policy. 
On 12 April, Lloyds wrote to Mrs G about her complaint. It said that when a customer 
requests a large cash withdrawal, branch staff had to ask relevant questions for a variety of 
reasons. That included complying with anti-money-laundering regulations, to establish 
whether there was a safer way of moving the money other than cash  and importantly, to try 
to establish whether the customer was about to fall victim to a scam, or had been coerced to 
make the payment. 
Mrs G contacted Lloyds again. She said that the Warning letter had been sent to her 
husband, with whom she had a (different) joint account, and this breached her privacy. She 
also said that the 12 April letter had been issued before she and Lloyds had discussed the 
complaint. And she said the 12 April letter had referred to cash, when shed been trying to do 
the transfer by other means, not by cash. She was still unhappy about the branch service, 
and about the fact that her account had been blocked.
On 19 April, Lloyds sent Mrs G its final response letter. It said that it was sorry for referring to 
the wrong payment method, and for incorrectly having addressed the Warning letter to Mrs 
Gs husband. So it said it was paying her £150. But Lloyds said it had intentionally blocked 
the account because of its concerns, when Mrs G had left the branch before the issue had 
been resolved. Lloyds also said it understood that Mrs G remained unhappy and was 
challenging the events that took place. But it said that as it had audited this, and had had to 
take the steps it did, it wasnt overturning its decision not to uphold that part of Mrs Gs 
complaint. 
Mrs G wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said Lloyds had frozen her 
account from 2 April to 6 April and shed had no idea when shed have access to her money. 
She said it had been frightening and embarrassing to be berated by the manager who had 
been wearing a large black face mask inches from her face. She said she wanted an 
apology, and compensation for Lloyds having deprived her of her money, and she said shed 
also been forced to close her account.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. She said that it was difficult for her to say 
what had happened as she wasnt there at the time. But Lloyds banking procedures allowed 
it to suspend, block or close accounts if they felt it was the right thing to do  which was why 
it had temporarily blocked her account. The investigator thought that £150 compensation 
was fair in the circumstances. She said it looked as if this had been paid to Mrs G, but if it 
hadnt, Mrs G should let her know.
Mrs G didnt agree. She said the investigator had taken the Lloyds managers word over 
hers, which wasnt fair, and the manager was being rude to her. She said he was wearing a 
black face mask and she found this frightening.
Mrs G said Lloyds never mentioned money-laundering, and £150 wasnt fair. She said shed 
been paid £450 for a previous breach of privacy. Mrs G asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What the terms and conditions say
Ive looked first at Lloyds terms and conditions, to which Mrs G would have signed up when 
she opened the account. 
First, Ive considered the fact that Lloyds stopped Mrs G making the payment which she 
wanted to.
Section D says that Lloyds can stop a customer making a payment: 
When can we stop you making a payment? 
We can stop you making payments, if we reasonably think it is necessary: 
 to keep your account secure 
And section D.16 says:
We may refuse to make a payment for you if we think the type of payment you are making 
has a high risk  of being connected to an 'APP scam', fraud or other criminal activity. An APP (Authorised Push Payment) scam is where you are tricked into transferring money to a 
fraudster via a bank transfer
So Lloyds had the power to refuse to make the payment which Mrs G wanted to make.
Mrs G also complained because Lloyds stopped her account on 2 April. Section M of the 
terms and conditions says:
 When can we close an account or stop or suspend a service, benefit or package of 
benefits you provide? 
 We can end this agreement (or account, benefit or benefits package or service) without 
telling you in advance  if we reasonably think that: 
 there is or may be illegal or fraudulent activity connected to the account; 
 you are or may be behaving improperly. This includes being abusive or threatening to our 
staff or including abusive  or threatening messages in payment instructions; 
 a regulator or Government may take action against us (or another Lloyds Banking Group 
company) unless we end it; 
 we may break the law or regulatory requirement if we don't end it; or 
 you have broken the agreement in a serious way.
So Lloyds had the power to stop Mrs Gs account when it had security concerns about the 
payment she wanted to make, which it properly exercised. There is also provision for Lloyds 
to close accounts with notice in a number of circumstances. I havent set that out here, 
because Mrs G told this service that shed closed her account herself. But Lloyds would 
have had the power to close it if Mrs G hadnt done so.
Events in the branch
Its clear that there was an unpleasant incident in the Lloyds branch on 1 and 2 April,  
involving shouting and swearing, after Mrs G wasnt allowed to make the transfer she 
wanted to make. The police were called. Where both sides disagree is about who was at 
fault for this. I cant know for sure what happened because I wasnt there. However, it often 
happens that theres a conflict of evidence, and when that happens I take my decision on 
what I think is most likely to have happened, taking into account all the circumstances of the 
case. I dont think its likely that Lloyds would have called the police if it had been Lloyds staff 
who had been shouting at a customer, rather than Mrs G shouting at staff. Nor do I think Mrs 
G would have been frightened because the manager was wearing a face mask. By the time 
of the incident, face masks had been in normal daily use for several years because of the 
Covid pandemic. So Im not persuaded that Lloyds should pay Mrs G compensation because 
an employee was taking a safety precaution which had become normal and which was a 
way of protecting both the wearer and Mrs G herself.
Privacy and error in Lloyds 12 April letter
I can see that the Warning letter was sent to Mrs Gs correct address, but it was wrongly 
addressed to her husband Mr G. Mrs G and her husband did have a joint account, but it was 
from Mrs Gs sole account that shed tried to make the suspect payment. And Ive seen 
nothing to indicate that Mr G was present when the incident in the branch took place. So 
Lloyds should have addressed its letter to Mrs G, not to Mr G.
There was also an error in that the 12 April letter, which Mrs G said was before she spoke to 
Lloyds in full about her complaint, referred to cash withdrawals. Mrs G had tried to make a 
transfer, not a cash withdrawal.
So I find that Lloyds was at fault for these errors. It apologised for them in its 19 April letter, 
and paid her £150. Ive considered whether there should be any extra compensation for distress and inconvenience these might have caused Mrs G. I note that Mrs G said shed 
received £450 for another privacy incident. I dont have, or need to have, any details of that 
incident, whether it was with Lloyds or another organisation. Thats because we look at each 
case individually. And here, I consider that the £150 which Lloyds said it paid Mrs G, was fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, for the privacy issue and error in 
its 12 April letter. 
The investigators view invited Mrs G to say if she hadnt received the £150. In her response 
to the investigators view, Mrs G didnt say that she hadnt received this. So I assume the 
money has been paid, and there is nothing more outstanding to be paid to Mrs G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman