DRN-3778820
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In March 2022, Miss K found some shoes on a social media platform that she was interested 
in buying. Miss K says shed used this platform once before to buy shoes from a different 
seller. 
Miss K says the shoes were listed for £200 and that the sellers profile listed multiple pairs of 
shoes they were selling. She said the profile had 80,000 followers and had reviews that 
suggested theyd sold lots of shoes to other buyers who were very happy with their 
purchase. Miss K initially contacted the seller and asked some questions about the shoes 
and says they responded promptly which made her believe they were legitimate. Miss K 
says the price for the shoes was slightly lower than other sites, but that this seller said they 
were having a summer sale which she found believable.
Miss K made a payment of £200 but didnt receive the shoes, so she contacted Monzo and 
raised a fraud claim.
Monzo considered Miss Ks claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) 
but declined to refund Miss K, saying she hadnt done reasonable checks to make sure the 
seller or the shoes were genuine.
Miss K wasnt happy with Monzos response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Miss Ks complaint and recommended that Monzo fully refund her 
and pay 8% simple interest on the refund.
Monzo disagreed with the investigators opinion saying:
Miss K didnt do any checks other than looking at the sellers profile on the social 
media platform. 
The sellers profile didnt have a link to a company website, which a genuine 
business would have. 
While Miss K mayve bought shoes through the same platform previously, she was 
taking a risk in doing so. 
Miss K shouldve been concerned because the account name she made the payment 
to was a personal name and not the business name on the sellers profile. 
Miss K shouldve paid for the goods via a different method that mightve given her 
buyer protection, rather than paying for the goods by bank transfer.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo arent a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) but have 
agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Code. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse 
customer who have been victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or service; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
 * there are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code, but they dont apply to this case.
Having reviewed the case, I dont agree that Monzo can rely on this exception to 
reimbursement for the following reasons:
The checks that I would expect Miss K to do, will depend on any red flags that she 
wouldve seen that shouldve caused her concern that the seller or the goods might 
not be genuine.
In this case, the sellers profile has a substantial number of followers (80,000) and 
looked professional. It had photos of all the shoes they were selling, and the pictures 
included an image of their company name on a card placed by the shoes. Also, there 
were what appeared to be positive reviews posted from many different people who 
had purchased shoes and were satisfied with their purchase. All of this provided  
Miss K with the confidence that they genuinely had goods for sale and that previous 
customers had received their goods and been satisfied with the goods.
Im not satisfied that the sellers profile not containing a link to a separate website is 
of sufficient concern that Miss K shouldve done further checks on the company. 
The shoes werent much cheaper than Miss K had seen on other sites and certainly 
werent so much cheaper that it shouldve caused Miss K concern about their 
legitimacy. Also, the seller said it was running a summer sale, which is a plausible 
reason for a slightly lower price. 
While Miss K made payment to an individual persons name rather than to a business 
name, Im not satisfied in this case that is enough to warrant her doing further 
checks. Miss K says shed only purchased shoes via this platform once before and 
didnt think it was unusual that the account name may not have been the business 
name.
Having carefully considered what Monzo has told us, Im satisfied that Miss K did have a 
reasonable basis to believe that she was purchasing through a legitimate seller and that the 
goods were genuine. The shoes that Miss K purchased were £200 and I wouldnt expect the 
same level of checks as if this was a large value item. Especially as Im not satisfied that 
there were sufficient red flags that Miss K shouldve had concerns about the legitimacy of the 
seller or the product. On that basis, Monzo should fully refund Miss K and pay interest at 8% 
simple from the date they declined her refund under the CRM Code.Putting things right
To put things right Monzo Bank Ltd should refund Miss K the £200 and pay interest on that 
refund at 8% simple from the date they declined Miss Ks refund under the CRM Code to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this case against Monzo Bank Ltd and require it to 
compensate Miss K as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman