DRN-1757234
The complaint
Miss M complained that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) declined to pay the loss 
adjuster and medical fees incurred by her following her home insurance claim. 
What happened
Miss M has a building and contents home insurance policy with L&G that started in 
September 2014 and was subsequently renewed annually. 
On 6 March 2018 a pipe in the ground floor kitchen ceiling of Miss Ms home burst and 
caused damage to both Miss Ms home and her possessions. The water in Miss Ms home 
had to be turned off, so she had no access to hot water or heating. As a result, Miss M 
moved into alternative accommodation. Miss M contacted L&G and submitted a claim. 
L&Gs claims handler sent a loss adjuster to visit Miss Ms home on 10 March 2018. They 
validated the claim and concluded the entire ground floor was damaged. Contractors went to 
Miss Ms home on 16 March 2018 to install heaters, so the property could be dried out. But 
this couldnt be done because the electrics werent working. The electrics were repaired by 
around 22 March 2018 and heaters were placed in Miss Ms home on around 10 April 2018. 
The contractors drying out the property visited it on 17 April 2018 and decided fittings 
needed to be removed to help with the drying process. So building contractors visited on 
24 April 2018 to do that. At around this time, contractors also became concerned that there 
might be asbestos in Miss Ms home. It was confirmed on 25 April 2018 that the material in 
question wasnt asbestos. A certificate of dryness was issued on 23 May 2018. 
Miss M employed her own loss adjuster to deal with the claim at the end of May 2018 and 
she advised L&G of this on 4 June 2018. On 7 June 2018, L&G approved a quote from 
Miss Ms own builders to complete the work on her home. 
Miss M moved back into her home at the end of September 2018. A settlement in relation to 
the contents of her property that were damaged was reached in early 2019. 
Miss M complained to L&G in July 2019 about the treatment she experienced during the 
processing of her claim and said there was no effective management of the claim. Miss M 
said it was clear from the start that her home would be uninhabitable for several months, yet 
she had accommodation in five different locations until 12 June 2019. She said she often 
had to move with information only provided at the last minute. Miss M said she had to 
arrange for dehumidifiers to be put into her home to avoid further deterioration and had to 
travel to her home daily to service the dehumidifier and generator she had hired. Miss M said 
it was five weeks before L&Gs claim handlers installed their own dehumidifiers. 
Miss M said communication with the first loss adjuster appointed by L&G was difficult  
emails were often overlooked and phone calls were unproductive. Miss M said it was bad 
enough that she had to deal with her home being flooded in freezing temperatures, and the 
damage to her possessions, but trying to get a decent level of service from L&G had affected 
her health. Miss M said she appointed her own loss adjuster to handle the claim and he 
experienced the same communication problems. Miss M asked L&G to pay the cost of 
employing the services of the loss adjuster and the expenses she incurred for specialist 
medical treatment to deal with the stress she experienced.  
L&G responded to Miss Ms complaint. It said she had made nine complaints since March 
2018 and it provided an outline of each. The issue most often complained about was the lack 
of updates and communication from the loss adjuster. Miss B also complained about her 
alternative accommodation coming to an end, damage caused to the contents of her home 
and the settlement amount for the contents of her property. 
L&G offered various solutions including the loss adjuster getting in contact and apologising 
and extending the alternative accommodation. It also offered Miss M £350 compensation in 
October 2018 and £150 in February 2019 when she again raised concerns about the lack of 
communication. And £250 was offered in July 2019 in recognition of the poor level of service 
provided. L&G said it would not refund the fees Miss M paid to her loss adjuster. 
Miss M was unhappy with the response from L&G and so contacted this service. She said 
the first L&G loss adjuster was difficult to contact and a total of seven loss adjusters dealt 
with her claim. Miss M also said it cost her £5,000 to employ her own loss adjuster and she 
wouldnt have incurred this cost if L&G had handled her claim properly. Miss M said this 
caused her a good deal of stress and she said L&G should pay her private healthcare costs. 
Miss M said some of the work on her home was carried out by L&Gs own contractors, while 
some was arranged by Miss M and carried out by local tradesmen. Miss M said she opted to 
arrange things in this way to prevent further deterioration when she thought L&Gs 
contractors were failing to take action and because of the casual approach and bullying 
attitude of one of the contractors. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. He didnt think there were excessive 
delays in how the claim was dealt with. He also said that while employing a loss adjuster 
meant Miss M didnt need to contact L&G anymore, this didnt lead to the claim being 
resolved much sooner. Our investigator said that while L&G could have been more proactive 
in providing updates to Miss M, the £750 compensation offered for this already was enough.  
Miss M responded to our investigator and said the hiring of a loss adjuster didnt improve 
matters and this was a measure of L&Gs failure to manage the situation. Because 
Miss M didnt agree with what our investigator said, this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint
My understanding is that Miss Ms claim, in relation to the damage to her home and personal 
property, has been settled. As thats not in dispute, I wont consider it further. So the 
question being dealt with here is whether L&G acted fairly when it told Miss M it wouldnt 
cover the cost of her employing the services of a loss adjuster to help her manage her claim. 
L&G feel the £750 already offered is enough to compensate Miss M for the communication 
and other difficulties experienced throughout the claim. Miss M has also asked that L&G 
cover the cost of private healthcare she accessed as a result of stress. 
Its not unusual for policy holders to employ the services of loss adjusters to help them deal 
with insurance claims, in particular when the claims process might be a lengthy one. But generally, this cost will not be covered by insurers. Ive looked at the terms of Miss Ms policy 
with L&G and I can see she is not covered for fees incurred in the preparation of a claim. 
And I take the view that this excludes Miss M from claiming the costs incurred in employing 
the services of her own loss adjuster. 
This means the only way I could consider asking L&G to cover this cost is if I thought Miss M 
had good cause to employ a loss adjuster to help her deal with this claim.  
Miss M said that the main reason she used her own loss adjuster was the lack of 
communication from L&Gs loss adjuster, the lack of a plan for how the work on her home 
would be completed and the uncertainty around her alternative accommodation. Miss M said 
this caused her a great deal of stress. 
I dont doubt that Miss M found it stressful to deal with the claim. But, in coming to my 
decision, I have to also bear in mind that the incident Miss M was claiming for  so coming 
home to find the entire ground floor of her home was damaged by an escape of water, as 
were her possessions and then having to move out of her home until the remedial work was 
finished  will likely have caused a good deal of the stress Miss M was experiencing. And 
L&G isnt responsible for this. Its only responsible for putting her back in the position she 
was in before the escape of water happened. 
And its also the case that dealing with a claim like this will likely cause stress and frustration. 
Unexpected situations can arise  an example here is when the electrics in Miss Ms home 
didnt work and had to be repaired before heaters could be installed to dry her home out. 
And moving to alternative accommodation and trying to salvage personal possessions are 
an unfortunate part of dealing with a claim like this one. While all of these situations need to 
be properly managed by L&G, they are part and parcel of a claim like Miss Ms.
Having said all of that, I can see that the first loss adjuster appointed by the claims handlers 
often failed to keep Miss M up to date with what was happening and often didnt respond to 
her requests for information. And this left Miss M feeling uncertain about how her claim was 
progressing. Ive noted too that Miss Ms loss adjuster experienced the same difficulties and 
frustrations about a lack of communication. I can also see that Miss M often didnt know until 
the last minute whether alternative accommodation had been approved. Miss M also relied 
on friends to help her find accommodation. L&G was also slow to pay Miss Ms builder and 
sometimes sent payments to Miss M without telling her what these were for. 
Ive looked at what happened with Miss Ms claim up to the point Miss M engaged the 
services of the loss adjuster, to see whether things had been so badly managed that it was 
reasonable for Miss M to employ a loss adjuster in order to keep the claim moving. And 
while I have a great deal of sympathy for what Miss M experienced following the escape of 
water, I dont think L&G need to pay for her loss adjuster. Ill explain why. 
Miss M advised L&G at the beginning of June 2018 that she had employed the loss adjuster 
to handle her claim. By this time the electrics and boiler in her home had been repaired, the 
property had been dried out and a certificate of dryness had been issued. Concerns about 
asbestos had also been dealt with. In addition, Miss M had asked to use her own building 
contractor and L&G agreed to this. So Im satisfied that although its clear Miss M was 
finding this experience really very stressful, the work on her home was being managed 
reasonably well by L&G. By the time Miss M employed the loss adjuster, its clear 
communication with L&G could have been better, but work was progressing on her home 
regardless. 
So I dont think it would be fair to ask L&G to pay for the cost of Miss Ms loss adjuster, when 
the claim was progressing well enough at the time Miss M employed him. I am also not asking L&G to pay Miss Ms medical costs. As I said before, I dont doubt Miss M found this 
experience really very stressful. But a good deal of this is likely to have been caused by the 
incident itself and the unavoidable inconveniences this caused, and I dont think it would be 
fair for L&G to have to pay medical bills because of that.
Ive then looked at whether the £750 compensation offered by L&G for the poor service it 
provided was enough. Theres no doubt L&G could have handled things better with providing 
and approving alternative accommodation, with communicating with Miss M, with paying 
invoices from tradespeople on time, and with letting Miss M know what plans were being put 
in place so that she could be assured that work was progressing on her home. Ive taken on 
board what Miss Ms loss adjuster said about there not being anything exceptional about her 
claim that would account for the poor service experienced. However, Im satisfied £750 is a 
fair amount to compensate Miss M for the failings outlined above. As I said earlier, the claim 
was progressing well enough in spite of the lack of communication and other service issues. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman