DRN-2159212
The complaint
Miss A says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading at the time as Satsuma irresponsibly
lent to her.
What happened
In July 2020 I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained why I was intending to uphold 
this complaint about loan 2.
A copy of my provisional decision is set out below and forms part of my final decision:
This complaint is about two loans Satsuma provided to Miss A between September 2017
and June 2018. Miss As borrowing history is set out on the table below as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 22/09/2017 27/12/2017 12 £700.00 £116.20
2 17/06/2018        - 12 £2,000.00 £332.00
The first loan was settled early.
In its final response to Miss A, Satsuma said it carried out a series of checks to ensure the
lending was responsible. It said it checked Miss As income and her expenditure including a
credit file search. If this check resulted in a higher level of expenditure, it used a higher figure
to ensure it didn't underestimate Miss As outgoings. It said it only lent to Miss A if it was
satisfied she could afford the loans it was giving - illustrated by the fact that three other loan
applications were declined. It also said the fact that it had increased the outgoings
suggested that the decision to lend was responsible and these loans were affordable for
Miss A. It did however uphold other parts of Miss As complaint about lack of responses to
emails and other customer service issues. As a gesture of goodwill, it offered to reduce the
balance outstanding on loan 2 by £100.
Our adjudicator didn't think Miss As complaint should be upheld. He said there wasn't
anything in the information provided about loan 1 which meant Satsuma should have started
verifying what Miss A was saying. But he said for the later loan Satsuma should have taken
steps to build a more detailed picture of her financial situation. He said however, he hadn't seen 
anything in the financial information provided which suggested Satsuma should
have known Miss A wouldn't be able to make her repayment sustainably.
Miss A disagreed with this view. She explained that she thought the size of the second loan
meant Satsuma ought to have carried out further checks. If it had done it would have seen
her debt was much worse than when she took out her first loan and her bank statements
showed gambling and a reliance on payday loans.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss A
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
            loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
            meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time            
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
            refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
            unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish
whether Miss A could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss As complaint. Im intending to uphold Miss As
complaint about loan 2. I will explain why.
For loan 1, this was the first loan Satsuma had given to Miss A. I can see Miss A declared
she had an income of £1,400 and outgoings of £780. This left Miss A with a disposable
income of £503.80 after factoring in the loan repayment of £116.20.
Satsuma adjusted these figures based on its checks to better reflect Miss As circumstances.
It said the values used were that Miss A had an income of £1,398.91 and outgoings totalling
£1,043.33. This would have left Miss A with a disposable income of £239.38 after accounting
for the monthly repayment for loan 1 of £116.20.
So, for this loan I think its checks were proportionate and I think that Satsuma would have
likely thought this loan was affordable. So, I dont intend to uphold the complaint about loan 1.
I have next gone on to consider loan 2. I have done this in the light of the following
considerations: -
I have looked at the amount of the loan.
I have also thought about the repayment amounts Miss A had to make over the term            and the adjustments to the figures Satsuma made for the first and second loan.
I can see from the evidence that although Miss A did not take up her second loan until around just 
under six months after repaying her first loan, she had made other applications
for loans to Satsuma. On 2 November 2017 an application was not taken up and another
application was rejected on 13 November 2017. These applications were made while she
was still repaying her first loan and this is something Satsuma would have known about
when it gave Miss A loan 2. Given these circumstances and the time line I dont intend to
find this was a new chain in the lending relationship.
Given the large amount of loan 2 and the amount of the repayments over the time period, I
think Satsuma should have carried out further checks to verify what Miss A was saying.
Satsuma couldve gone about doing this several ways. It couldve asked for evidence of Miss
As income in the way of a wage slip or it couldve obtained information about her outgoings
via copies of bills. But, in this case, Miss A has provided a copy of a credit report which
covers the period of the second loan. So, I dont think it is unreasonable to rely on the
information I can see in this credit report.
From this report I can see that Miss A had numerous credit cards and other credit including
unsecured loans, hire-purchase and a catalogue shopping account. The cost of the other
ongoing loans were £144, a loan repaid the same day as Miss A took out loan 2 of £312, an
HP agreement of £144, another unsecured loan of £159 and one of £219. I can also see that
she had also had other short-term loans in a short time before she took out loan 2 with
Satsuma. Miss A was consistently using high cost credit and had been for at least the
previous 12 months. I think the cost of her outgoings meant this loan was unaffordable.
On top of this Miss A has also provided copies of her bank statements for the period of loan
2. This confirms that she was repaying other short-term loans. So, if Satsuma had done
some further searches and investigated Miss As financial position more thoroughly as I think
it ought to have done, for the reasons Ive explained, I think it would have seen that the
repayment for this loan was unaffordable and unsustainable. I dont think Satsuma would
have given Miss A her second loan.
So as things stand, Im intending to uphold Miss As complaint about loan 2.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Following my provisional decision and before making my final decision, I asked both parties 
to come back to me with anything further they wished me to consider.
Miss A confirmed she was happy with my decision. She didnt add any more information for 
me to consider. Satsuma didnt respond after being sent my provisional decision  so I see 
no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional decision. 
So, I uphold Miss As complaint about loan 2.
Putting things right  what Satsuma needs to doAs I explained in my provisional decision, it appears there is an outstanding balance in 
respect of loan 2. If that is the case and Satsuma sold the outstanding debts to a third party, 
it will need to buy it back if it can and then follow the steps set out below. If it cannot buy the 
debt back, it must liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
a. Satsuma must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 2, and
treat any repayments made by Miss A as though they had been repayments of the
principal on this loan. If this results in Miss A having made overpayments, then
Satsuma must refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated and
paid on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the
date the complaint is settled.
b. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Satsuma should try to agree an
affordable repayment plan with Miss A. It must not pursue outstanding balances
made up of principal it has already written-off.
c. Satsuma must remove any adverse information recorded on Miss As credit file in
relation to loan 2.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must
give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If Satsuma and Miss A do agree a repayment plan, I remind Satsuma of its obligation to treat
Miss A fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint about loan 2. Provident Personal Credit 
Limited should put things right as set out in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman