DRN-3401591
The complaint
Miss S says Loans 2 Go Ltd irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about an 18-month instalment loan for £600 that Loans 2 Go provided to
Miss S on 18 January 2021. The monthly repayments were £137.13 and the total repayable 
was £2,468.34.
Miss S says she is now behind on priority bills because of the loan. The term and interest 
rate were not explained to her thoroughly.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ss complaint and thought Loans 2 Go shouldnt have given the
loan. Loans 2 Go disagreed, saying the regulator s guidelines do not define an acceptable 
loan to income ratio and in this case Miss Ss credit check showed no sign of financial 
duress. It asked for an ombudsmans review, and so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Ss complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S
 would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse
consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Miss S wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Miss Ss ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss S. In practice this 
meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause 
Miss S undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt 
enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had 
to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
Loans 2 Go has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Miss S. It asked for her monthly income, expenses and employment status. It 
completed an income verification check with a third-party and checked her living costs 
against national averages. As a result it reduced her declared income slightly and increased 
her declared expenses. It carried out a credit check to understand her credit history and 
existing credit commitments. I cant see it asked about the purpose of the loan. Based on 
these checks Loans 2 Go concluded the loan would be affordable for Miss S.
I think these checks were proportionate but I dont think the lender made a fair lending 
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
From the credit check it completed Loans 2 Go knew Miss S had credit commitments of 
£368.10. By giving this loan Loans 2 Go was increasing the proportion of her monthly 
income that Miss S would need to spend on servicing her debt to over 30%. At this level I 
think it ought to have realised there was a risk Miss S would not be able to repay this loan 
without suffering adverse financial consequences. And to meet its regulatory obligations it 
needed to consider this, not just the pounds and pence affordability. 
Loans 2 Go argues that there are no regulatory guidelines with regards to debt to income 
ratios - and Miss Ss credit check showed no adverse data. Her accounts were all up-to-date 
or settled. But as Ive set out above it was required to think about the likely impact of its 
lending on Miss S over the term of the loan  not just her current position. And from our 
experience when a significant proportion of income will be needed to service an applicants 
debt there is a risk of subsequent financial difficulties, so this does not change my 
conclusion. It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give this loan to Miss S and Loans 2 
Go needs to put things right.
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I haventseen any evidence that it did. Miss S says the lender didnt explain the loan term or the high 
interest rate well enough. I accept the APR was high, but Miss S had to actively engage in 
the application process, so I think its likely that she was aware of what she was agreeing to 
pay and over how many months. It was clearly set out on the Pre-Contract Credit Information 
and loan agreement that she signed. And I havent seen anything which makes me think that 
Loans 2 Go treated Miss S unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest charges. 
But that said, the interest and charges will be refunded as Ive concluded that loan shouldnt 
have been given.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss S to repay the capital amount that she borrowed,
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid extra for lending that should 
not have been provided to her so Loans 2 Go needs to put that right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments
Miss S made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Ss loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Miss Ss loan account results in there being an outstanding capital 
balance the lender must try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss S.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in relation to
the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PML to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ss complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman