DRN-2082208
The complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited doesnt cover the cost of a Powerflush as 
part of his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr B got in touch with British Gas to make a claim on his home 
emergency insurance policy because his heating wasnt working. British Gas sent out one of 
its engineers, who carried out repairs. But the engineer said there was a build-up of sludge 
in the boiler system and a Powerflush needed to be carried out. 
British Gas explained that the costs of a Powerflush werent covered by the policy terms. It 
was considered to be upgrade work. It arranged for Mr B to be provided with a quote for a 
Powerflush. Mr B didnt agree that the costs of a Powerflush werent covered  he thought 
the terms and conditions of the policy were unclear and contradictory. He asked us to look 
into his complaint. 
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
policy made it clear that Powerflushes werent covered by the policy terms. He also felt 
British Gas had explained to Mr B early on why the costs of a Powerflush wouldnt be 
covered. 
Mr B disagreed. He said the policy suggested Powerflushes would only not be covered if a 
policyholder had previously been advised to have one and sludge had gone on to cause a 
claim. He also said hed been left without heating through winter, with vulnerable family 
members in his home. Hed explained this to British Gas, but it hadnt treated the matter as 
an emergency. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that in this decision, Ill 
only be looking at whether the terms of British Gas policy were unclear. Thats because Mr 
B hasnt previously complained about being left without heating, or the impact on his family, 
so British Gas hasnt had a chance to respond to these issues. Mr B will need to make a new 
complaint to British Gas about these specific points before were potentially able to help with 
it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Bs policy includes a section called British Gas Powerflush. This explains what a 
Powerflush is and how why it might be needed. The policy says: Well tell you if your system 
needs a powerflush to work properly. Youll need to pay for it separately  it isnt included in 
your cover.
I think the policy makes it sufficiently clear that the costs of a Powerflush wont be covered 
by British Gas  that a policyholder would need to pay for it themselves. So I think it was 
reasonable for British Gas to tell Mr B that if he wanted to have a Powerflush to clear the 
sludge in his central heating system, hed need to meet the costs. I also think it was 
reasonable for British Gas to arrange for a quote to be offered to Mr B so he could decide if 
he wanted to go ahead. 
Mr B thinks this section of the policy conflicts with an exclusion clause under the Central 
Heating section of the policy. This says that damage due to sludge, limescale or other 
debris wont be covered if a policyholders previously been told they need repairs, a 
Powerflush or a similar process and this hasnt been done. Mr B feels this implies that 
Powerflushes will be covered. 
But I disagree. I dont think this term does suggest Powerflushes will be covered by the 
policy. It simply explains that if British Gas has previously identified that sludge is an issue in 
a policyholders system and recommended a Powerflush be done to clear it; further claims 
for sludge wont be covered if a policyholder didnt go ahead with getting a Powerflush done. 
The list of Whats covered under this section also doesnt include the cost of a Powerflush. 
In my opinion, the policy is clear and unambiguous. I think British Gas explained early on 
why the cost of a Powerflush wasnt covered and gave Mr B a choice about whether to go 
ahead or not. Mr B chose not to have a Powerflush done and chose to take up cover with a 
new provider. Im pleased to hear the issues with his central heating have now been 
resolved without the need for a Powerflush. But overall, I dont think British Gas has done 
anything wrong here that it needs to put right.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman