DRN-1740728
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vertu Motors (VMC) Limited (VMC) mis-sold him a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in conjunction with a hire purchase agreement. 
He says he didnt agree to buy the policy; it was added to his account without his consent. 
What happened
Mr M took out a hire purchase agreement when he bought a car in November 2005. At the 
same time VMC sold him a PPI policy.
The policy cost just around £50 each month and it covered Mr M in the event he wasnt 
working due to accident and sickness and it wouldve provided a monthly benefit equivalent 
to his loan repayments following a successful claim. The policy that Mr M bought did not 
provide unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms complaint. And having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.
was Mr M given a choice about PPI?
Unfortunately theres limited documentation from the time of the sale, and Ive seen no 
records of the discussion that took place between the VMC representative and Mr M. But I 
am mindful of the fact the sale took place almost 15 years ago and it is perhaps inevitable 
the passage of time will make exact recall of what took place more difficult. In circumstances 
like these, where there is no documentary evidence, I need to weigh up what, in my mind, is 
more likely to have happened.
VMC says that its policies were always optional and never a condition of the granting of the 
loan. And its given me a copy of the loan agreement in this case. I can see there was a 
separate section relating to additional products and Ive noted that the box next to PPI has 
been ticked to confirm the purchase of PPI. Mr M then signed this box to confirm this. So, 
taking this in to account together with what both parties have told me, I think the policy was 
optional  I think VMC presented PPI as an optional product, and Mr M chose to take it out, 
even if he cant now recall doing so.
did VMC recommend the policy to Mr M? And if so, was it suitable?VMC recommended the policy to Mr M  this means it had to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr M. Looking at what I know about his circumstances from the time of sale, I 
think the policy was suitable for him. I say this because:
 
Mr M was eligible for the policy, and he wasnt affected by any of the policys 
exclusions, for example those in relation to existing medical conditions  he told us 
he was in good health. Mr M told us he was self-employed, but the policy he 
purchased  silver cover  didnt provide unemployment protection. So, if there were 
policy conditions that made it more difficult for a self-employed person to successfully 
claim, then this would not have affected him.
 
Mr M was self-employed, so he wouldnt have had any sic pay from his employer. 
And although he says he had some savings, this policy wouldve allowed him to use 
these savings for other pressing matters if he wasnt able to work. 
 
Mr M did say his family wouldve helped him if needed support. Whilst I understand 
the point he seeks to make, there could be no guarantee that his family wouldve 
been able to help him at some unknown point in the future.
 
I noticed that Mr M wouldve only received a limited refund of the PPI premium if he 
cancelled the policy early. However, I havent seen any information that suggests he 
needed the flexibility to cancel the policy early at the time of sale in 2005. Also, Ive 
seen no indications that the policy wasnt affordable for Mr M.
 
For these reasons I think the policy was suitable for him.
did VMC meet Mr Ms information needs??
VMC provided a copy of Mr Ms loan agreement, so I know how the cost was presented to 
him. The loan agreement shows the cost of the PPI premium that was added to the loan. It 
also showed the total cost of the policy over the term of the loan and the interest charged on 
it. So, I cant fairly say that the costs werent made clear to Mr M.
I dont know how the policys other main features wouldve been presented to Mr M. 
However, I dont think this wouldve made a difference to Mr Ms decision to buy PPI. As I 
explained above, I think the policy was suitable for him. 
For these reasons I think if Mr M had been given better information he still wouldve bought 
the policy. So he hasnt lost out as a result of what VMC mightve done wrong.
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman