DRN-2972448
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about how Amtrust Europe Limited dealt with a claim they made for 
accidental damage to their furniture.
 
What happened
In September 2016 Mr and Mrs H purchased a three-seater leather sofa and other furniture 
from a retailer that Ill refer to here as H. At the same time, they also purchased a five-year 
optional leather care and protect policy of insurance. This cover was provided by Amtrust 
and it covered accidental damage to the upholstery Mr and Mrs H had bought.
In October 2020, Mr and Mrs H say they noticed that there was damage to one of the two 
seat cushions on their sofa. They thought the leather surrounding the seam had been 
scuffed. So, they submitted a claim to Amtrust for accidental damage, which it received on 
28 October 2020. 
Amtrust reviewed the photographs of the sofa that Mr and Mrs H had provided together with 
their completed claim form. Mr and Mrs H stated in their claim for that, whilst all seats had 
received equal wear, the damage was only evident on one of the seat cushions. But they 
couldnt confirm what had caused the damage they were reporting. 
After considering the evidence that Mr and Mrs Hs had submitted, Amtrust stated that it 
didnt think the leather was scuffed. Instead, it said the leather was suffering from age 
related wear and tear, which was excluded under their policy. It therefore notified them that it 
was repudiating their claim. This decision was communicated to Mr and Mrs H on 29 
October 2020.
Mr and Mrs H were dissatisfied with Amtrusts decision to decline their claim. They thought it 
should have sent a furniture inspector to their home to assess their furniture before 
determining the outcome of their claim. And they refuted that the leather damage had been 
caused by wear and tear. So, they complained.
Amtrust investigated Mr and Mrs Hs concerns but it didnt uphold their complaint. It 
maintained its repudiation decision and didnt think it had made an error. But Mr and Mrs H 
didnt accept the content of Amtrusts final response to their complaint. So, they brought their 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator assessed what had happened. But they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. Overall, they thought Amtrust had acted fairly and didnt need to take any further 
action. But Mr and Mrs H disagreed with our investigators view of their complaint and asked 
for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think Amtrust made a mistake, or treated Mr and Mrs H 
unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about 
everything they and Amtrust have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate 
Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope they can understand the 
reasons behind my decision.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Mr and Mrs H and 
Amtrust for the level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all 
the information provided and, I havent specifically referred to a point that Mr and Mrs H or 
Amtrust have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I 
think are the key issues  an approach that reflects the informal nature of this service.
Mr and Mrs H have complained that they feel their policy was mis-sold to them. They say 
they paid almost £500 for their policy and havent been able to make a successful claim. I 
can understand why they may feel their policy wasnt suitable in those circumstances. But 
I can see that Mr and Mrs H purchased their policy from H at the time that they purchased 
their furniture. So, I cant address any mis-selling issues within this decision as I can only 
consider the actions or omissions by Amtrust here.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy with Amtrust covers the furniture they purchased from H for the cost 
of removing stains or repairing damage caused by a sudden and unforeseen accidental 
event. In order for a claim to be successful, the onus is on Mr and Mrs H to show that the 
damage theyre claiming for was caused accidentally.
In determining whether Mr and Mrs Hs claim was fairly assessed and declined Ive 
considered the photographs they provided with their claim form, what they say about the 
damage to their sofa and what Amtrust said about how it believes the damage occurred. 
For me to direct Amtrust to settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim, Id have to be satisfied that the 
damage they reported was caused by either a stain or by a sudden and unforeseen 
accidental event  as is stipulated in the policy terms. 
Here, Mr and Mrs H havent said their sofa was damaged by a stain. Instead, they told 
Amtrust and our service that the damage to their sofa was scuffing. They havent been able 
to say how this occurred. But they believe the damage was caused accidentally. 
Mr and Mrs Hs policy provides cover against the cost of repairing accidental damage to 
upholstery resulting in rips, tears, burns, scuffs, scratches and punctures. Their policy 
doesnt, however, cover gradually occurring damage, which isnt unusual as age-related 
wear and tear is usually excluded from insurance policies.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Amtrust doesnt think the damage shown in 
the photographs of Mr and Mrs Hs sofa has been caused by scuffing. It thinks that the 
images show that the leather is peeling, which is an accumulation of damage over time.
Ive carefully considered the photographs Mr and Mrs H provided to Amtrust. They think 
these images illustrate scuffing to their leather. And I can see they told Amtrust that both 
seats were subject to equal wear and tear, which they think supports their argument that the 
damage has not been caused by age related wear and tear. I understand the point Mr and 
Mrs H are making here. But I think the photographs of their sofa show that the leather is 
peeling near the stitching. I dont think the images show a rip, tear, burn, scuff, scratch or 
puncture to the leather. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I havent seen enough to persuade me that the damage 
depicted happened as a result of a single incident or sudden and unforeseen accidental 
event, which is whats required by Mr and Mrs Hs policy. Instead, I think its more likely that 
the damage shown in the photographs is consistent with an accumulation of damage 
through general use over the period of time that Mr and Mrs H have owned their sofa. As this 
is excluded under the terms of their policy, I cant fairly find Amtrust made an error in 
declining to cover this claim.
Part of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about how Amtrust repudiated their claim without 
instructing an inspector to assess the damage to their furniture. So, Ive thought about 
whether this would have been likely to have changed the outcome. 
As Ive already mentioned, Mr and Mrs H provided Amtrust with photographs to assist it in 
the assessment of their claim. Ive seen eight good quality colour images, which clearly 
show the condition of Mr and Mrs Hs sofa and the damage they reported. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Amtrust to reach a decision on the outcome of Mr and Mrs Hs claim 
based on the photographs they provided. Im persuaded it had sufficient information on 
which to determine the cause of damage from the images it saw and the content of the 
claim form it received. And I dont think an inspection at Mr and Mrs Hs property would 
have led Amtrust to reach a different outcome. So, Im not persuaded it made an error in 
basing its repudiation decision off the documents it received from Mr and Mrs H.
I realise Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed with this decision  they feel strongly about the 
issues raised in this complaint and I appreciate the reasons why they brought their complaint 
to our service. But, for the reasons outlined, Im satisfied the damage they reported isnt 
covered by their policy. It follows I dont think Amtrust acted unfairly in declining to cover 
their claim. I therefore wont be asking it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman