DRN-3688983
The complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt do enough to protect him when 
he fell victim to a scam and hasnt reimbursed the money he lost.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Its not in dispute that the funds were ultimately lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute 
that Mr E authorised the payments using his Santander credit and debit cards, albeit 
not realising he was being scammed. So, the starting position  in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017  is that hes liable for the transactions. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id 
expect Santander to have systems in place to monitor for indications of fraud. In 
some circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional 
checks before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a 
fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold Santander liable.
It doesnt appear that there was any intervention, or any conversation, in relation to 
these payments between Santander and Mr E until 16 July 2021. So Ive considered 
whether Santander ought to have made additional checks on the disputed payments 
prior to this conversation. And I dont think it ought to have. 
I say this because payments up until, and including, 16 July 2021 were made to 
legitimate cryptocurrency providers. And, while the payments werent all low amounts 
as such, I dont consider them to have been high enough, or unusual enough, for me 
to reasonably expect Santanders fraud alert systems to have been triggered. So, I 
wouldnt expect Santander to have stopped any payments up until this point.
Mr E called in on 16 July 2021. Within this call, he expressed concern that after trying 
to buy Bitcoin, he felt they were taking more money than hed actually approved and 
tried to stop the pending payments. Santander told Mr E the payments couldnt be 
stopped but arranged to block and replace his card. 
But Santander should have asked Mr E further questions about the payments he was 
making  it was concerning to hear that Mr E had effectively lost sight of what money 
was being spent using his own card. Had Santander probed in an appropriate way, 
given how open Mr E was in the call, I think he would have revealed things such as 
the use of Anydesk  a common hallmark of a scam  and how little he knew of the 
investment he was involved with. 
Having said that, I do also note, while it didnt know the full details of the scam Mr E 
had fallen victim to, Santander gave some very clear signals that this was a scam. 
The representative recommended that Mr E contact the company hed paid to try to 
get his funds back and stated within the call that Bitcoin isnt regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or covered in any regard. He also said that if 
the company asked for any more money, or particularly if it asked him to take out a 
loan then that is a scam before adding that this sounded like a scam anyway. 
I note that there were no further interventions later on, when I consider that there 
should have been. I say this because around 11 days later, Mr E made further 
payments in one day totalling almost £7,000  which is an amount that would be 
considered unusual and out of character for Mr E.  
But I do have to consider whether an appropriate intervention would likely have made 
a difference. It wouldnt be fair to hold Santander liable for Mr Es losses following 
that phone call if I dont think an appropriate intervention would have stopped Mr E 
from going ahead with the payments anyway. 
I got in touch with Mr E, via his representative, to ask questions such as what 
persuaded him to continue investing following the call with Santander and what 
doubts (if any) he had before making further payments. In his response, its clear that 
hed expressed concern to the scammer which led to him being shown the platform 
and how to withdraw. He said he was convinced by the scammer that this was 
genuine based on their expertise and knowledge. And he said hed developed a 
relationship of trust and confidence, and even friendship, with the scammer. 
So, from this, Im not satisfied that an appropriate intervention by Santander would 
have stopped Mr E from making further payments. In the call with Santander, hed 
expressed his own reservations, as well as being warned that any further requests 
for money would indicate that he was being scammed. But, following this, the 
scammer had persuaded him to invest again less than a fortnight later. It seems that 
Mr E trusted the scammer to the extent that he didnt take heed of his own concerns, 
nor those of his bank. And I therefore conclude that, in the circumstances of this 
case, despite failings on Santanders part, it wouldnt be fair to hold it liable for Mr Es 
losses.
I turn next to the attempts to recover Mr Es funds. It doesnt appear that there have 
been attempts to raise a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
and the first couple of payments were made using a credit card. But, for a claim to 
succeed, there would need to be a valid debtor-credit-supplier chain. And, in this 
case, the chain is broken by the addition of the scammer themselves who was 
neither the debtor (Mr E), the creditor (Santander) or the supplier (the legitimate 
cryptocurrency providers). So as there isnt a valid chain here, I cant see that a claim 
would succeed  and therefore I cant say it would have been worthwhile to pursue 
this. 
Ive then thought about chargeback. It does appear that a chargeback was raised on 
at least some of the payments. But this seems to have been unsuccessful. Im not 
sure whether chargebacks were raised on all the payments, but its unlikely chargebacks on any of them would have succeeded in any event. I say this because 
Mr Es payments went to a legitimate cryptocurrency provider which then provided 
the service it was required to  the exchange of pounds to cryptocurrency. So there 
wouldnt have been a valid chargeback reason. 
In summary, I wouldnt have expected Santander to intervene with any of the 
payments prior to its call with Mr E. From here, while I think Santander could have 
done more during and following the call with Mr E, I dont think it ultimately would 
have made a difference to his decision to continue making payments to the 
scammer. So, I dont hold Santander liable for Mr Es losses. And I think it took 
appropriate actions in terms of recovery, especially given that any further action 
would likely have resulted in the same outcome  i.e. the funds wouldnt have been 
recovered. 
I know how disappointing this will be for Mr E, and Im really sorry that hes been the victim 
of a cruel scam. I know this is potentially a lifechanging sum of money for him and I can 
appreciate why it was so important to him to pursue this complaint. But I dont think it would 
be fair to ask Santander to reimburse the funds lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman