DRN-2051422
The complaint
 Mr W complains Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans irresponsibly lent to him. He says 
Buddy Loans didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks before approving him for 
a loan. He says had Buddy Loans done this, it wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to 
him. 
What happened
 Mr W was approved for the below loan by Buddy Loans:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
Repayments
March 2017 £2,250 24 months £139
Mr W says Buddy Loans didnt complete proportionate checks; and had it done so it 
wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to him. He says he has lost out financially as he 
has had to pay additional interest and charges.
Buddy Loans considered Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. It argued it had completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks, and these showed the loan was affordable. Because 
of this, Buddy Loans says its decision to lend was fair.
At the time of the application, Buddy Loans competed a credit file search. These showed Mr 
W had nine active accounts with debit balances totalling approximately £17,000. There were 
no default markers, but two of the accounts had late payments markers. Buddy Loans says it 
took this into consideration before approving the loan, but Mr W had explained the loan was 
for debt consolidation, so it still felt its decision to lend was fair. 
Buddy Loans also completed an income and expenditure assessment, and asked Mr W for 
the details of the loans he was consolidating. Based on this assessment, Buddy Loans says 
Mr W had sufficient disposable income to meet the monthly repayments.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She felt the fact Mr W had a high 
number of active accounts, as well as a 91% debt ratio, that Buddy Loans shouldve 
completed further checks. In particular she felt Buddy Loans shouldve done more to verify 
Mr Ws income and outgoings. Our investigator argued had Buddy Loans done this, it 
wouldve reasonably seen Mr Ws outgoings were higher than those which Buddy Loans had 
relied on. In particular further checks wouldve likely soon Mr W had been spending 
significant outgoings on online gambling websites; and as such he didnt have the required 
disposable income to meet the monthly repayments.
Buddy Loans disagreed with our investigator and maintained its checks were proportionate 
in this instance. As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me to 
issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint. Bearing in mind 
the dispute before me, I think that there are two overarching questions that I need to 
consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ws complaint. These are:
1. Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr W, to satisfy 
itself that he was in a position repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
a. If so, did it make a fair decision to lend? 
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Mr W would have been able to do 
so?
2. Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Ill deal with each question in turn.
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr W, to satisfy itself 
that he was in a position repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
Turning to the first of two questions; the regulations which applied at the time, required 
Buddy Loans to carry out an assessment on whether Mr W could repay any loan in 
sustainable way. These checks are referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check. 
In making this affordability assessment, Buddy Loans needed to ensure any checks were 
borrower-focused. This means Buddy Loans needed to consider if any repayments Mr W 
made would cause him any financial difficulties or have any adverse consequences on his 
finances. The checks also needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the 
loan which was being approved. 
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But these checks needed to be proportionate to the amount of 
credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total 
length of the term.  
It is also not sufficient for Buddy Loans to just complete proportionate checks. It also needs 
to consider the information it is provided with and make a fair lending decision. 
Buddy Loans says it completed proportionate checks. It says it searched Mr Ws credit file, 
and completed a detailed income and expenditure assessment. It says it got a thorough 
understanding of Mr Ws circumstance, including the debt consolidation he was going to 
complete with the loans. It also says it verified Mr Ws income via a confidence level 
indicator. It says these checks combined were proportionate, and showed the loan was 
affordable to Mr W.
Ive carefully considered this argument, but in this instance, I disagree these checks were 
proportionate. As Ive set out above Buddy Loans needed to carefully consider the 
information it was provided before it decided to lend. Ive done this, and based on the 
information it had at the time, I believe further checks wouldve been proportionate in this 
instance.I say this because the credit file search which Buddy Loans completed showed Mr W had 
nine active accounts with a high debt ratio (91%) and a high debit balance (approximately 
£17,000). These accounts, whilst not having default markers, did have some late payment 
markers on them as well. Whilst this information alone wouldnt necessarily be enough to 
decline an application, Im satisfied it shouldve prompted further checks, including verifying 
Mr Ws outgoings.
I think this is made more relevant by the fact Mr W seemingly possessed a high level of 
income. Mr W had declared his income at £3,000, which Buddy Loans confidence checker 
seemingly verified. I believe the presence of this level of income, with the significantly high 
debt ratio, and debit balance would appear to be inconsistent. And combined with the 
reasons Ive outlined above, shouldve reasonably have prompted further checks. With this 
in mind it follows that Im not satisfied Buddy Loans completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks before lending to Mr W.   
Would further checks have shown that Mr W would have been able to make the repayments 
sustainably?
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied Buddy Loans shouldve completed further checks, and in 
particular done more to verify Mr Ws outgoings. It couldve achieved this in a number of 
ways, such as requesting copies of bills or bank statements. Mr W has provided our service 
with bank statements from the time around the loan was approved, and Ive considered this 
information when reaching my decision.
The statements show Mr Ws income was actually higher than he had declared, 
approximately £3,400 in total. However, the statements also show Mr Ws was not managing 
his finances well, and in particular that he was managing this to a very tight and sometimes 
negative margin. In addition to this Mr W was often using other high cost credit providers and 
money from family members to supplement his income. The statements also show Mr W 
was heavily reliant on his overdraft, frequently being over £2,500 overdrawn, which places 
considerable doubt on the disposable income Mr Ws assessment suggested.
In addition to this, Mr W had also been regularly spending substantial amounts of money on 
online gambling websites. These payments are a substantial part of his outgoings on a 
monthly basis, and severely restrict the amount of income he actually had each month to 
meet his outstanding commitments. For example, I can see in one month Mr W spent 
approximately £2,500 on online gambling websites. This reduced his available income to 
below £1,000 meaning he was unable to meet his necessary outgoings. This pattern is 
consistent both before and after the loan was approved, and as such Im satisfied it is 
reasonable to take this additional outgoing into consideration. 
Buddy Loans was aware it needed to ascertain if Mr W could meet any repayments 
sustainably. This means without any undue financial difficulties or incurring further debt. For 
the reasons Ive outlined above, Im not satisfied Mr W wouldve been able to do this, and 
Buddy Loans ought to have been aware of this had it completed further checks. And so, on 
this basis, Im satisfied the loan wouldve always been unaffordable to him. 
Putting things right
 In order to put things right, Buddy Loans needs to:
Refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on this loan;
Pay Mr W 8% simple interest on the refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to date of settlement;
Remove any adverse information on Mr Ws credit file in relation to this loan.HM Revenue & Customs requires Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans to take off tax 
from this interest. Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans must give Mr W a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman