DRN-3849924
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (who 
Ill call Close Brothers) are still demanding payments for a finance agreement they had 
agreed to cancel. She also says they have been wrong to report adverse information to her 
credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs W, but I dont think Close Brothers need to take any further 
action here. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs W acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The terms of the finance agreement allowed Mrs W to withdraw from it within 14 days but 
also explained:
If you exercise your right to withdraw you are withdrawing from the credit only (my 
emphasis) and not the purchase of the goods.
Whilst it seems the dealership were, at least initially, prepared to accept the goods back, 
Close Brothers couldnt ask them to unless, for instance, thered been a misrepresentation of 
the goods, or they werent of satisfactory quality. And Mrs W hadnt provided any evidence of 
that. I can see Mrs W complained about the cars fuel consumption, but Ive not seen any 
evidence to corroborate Mrs Ws assertion that the fuel consumption was inadequate, as 
could, for instance, have been supplied by an independent car expert.
So, I dont think Close Brothers were unreasonable when they refused to accept the car 
back and they had no way of compelling the supplying dealership to do so.
Mrs W appears to have cancelled her direct debit payment towards the finance agreement in 
December 2021. But as she didnt elect to cancel her finance agreement when she called to 
enquire about it, her payments were still due. And even though Close Brothers have 
subsequently removed adverse markers they reported to the credit reference agencies, I 
cant say they were unreasonable to have reported them in the first place. I can understand 
Mrs W was contesting whether Close Brothers were right to refuse her request to return the 
car and end the agreement, but there was no agreement in place to stop payments, and 
Close Brothers were obliged to report account activity accurately, to the credit reference 
agencies. 
Ultimately, whilst I can understand Mrs Ws frustration I dont think Close Brothers have done 
anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman