DRN-4322197
The complaint
Ms M complains about a decision taken by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard 
(Barclaycard) to decline her claim for a refund, in full or in part, for a number of goods she 
purchased from a supplier based abroad.
What happened
On 16 May 2021 Ms M entered into an online chat with Barclaycard to establish whether she 
would be protected if she purchased goods using her credit card. After a number of 
messages were exchanged between Barclaycard and Ms M Barclaycard advised Ms M to 
telephone it for further information.
Ms M says that she called Barclaycard as advised. And during this call she was told she 
would be protected in the event she used her credit card to make a cash advance / money 
transfer for the goods she was looking to purchase.
Ms M says that on the strength of what she was told by Barclaycard (over the phone) she 
placed an order for goods from a supplier based abroad and paid £893.41 for those goods 
on her credit card (by way of a cash advance / money transfer).
Ms M says that she didnt receive all the goods ordered and those that she did receive were 
faulty.
Following the above Ms M logged a disputed transaction with Barclaycard.
On 12 January 2022 Barclaycard wrote to Ms M to say that it was unable to pursue her claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 any further for a number of reasons. 
Unhappy with Barclaycards response Ms M raised a complaint with it.
On 23 January 2022 Barclaycard issued Ms M with a final response letter (FRL). Under 
cover of this FRL Barclaycard said it wasnt upholding Ms Ms complaint that her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 should have been upheld.
On 17 February 2023, after it appears that Ms M asked for her claim to be reviewed, 
Barclaycard wrote to Ms M to say (again) that it was unable to pursue her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 any further for a number of reasons.
On 25 February 2023 Ms M complained to our service.
On 25 April 2023 Barclaycard issued Ms M with a (second) FRL. Under cover of this FRL 
Barclaycard apologised for the service it had provided Ms M after she had asked for her 
claim to be reviewed and offered £75 in compensation. But it said wasnt upholding her 
complaint that her claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 should have 
been upheld.
Ms Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
Ms M didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Ms M has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided 
detailed submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in 
their entirety. However, I trust that Ms M will not take the fact that my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less 
detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. And its down to our 
service to decide what evidence to call for and what weight is placed on any evidence 
provided. 
Its my understanding that Ms M accepts that she has no section 75 rights in respect of her 
disputed transaction. But this isnt her complaint. What Ms M says her complaint is that she 
only made the purchase that she did, in the manner that she did, on the grounds Barclaycard 
told her that she would be protected in the event the goods she was looking to purchase 
turned out to be faulty or werent received.
Before I address Ms Ms complaint that she was misadvised by Barclaycard, I would like to 
make it clear, for the avoidance of doubt, that Im satisfied that she had no section 75 rights 
in respect of the purchase she made and for the reasons given by both Barclaycard and the 
investigator and possibly for other reasons as well.
I will now turn to Ms Ms complaint that she should be compensated by Barclaycard for the 
purchase she made on the grounds she only made that purchase, and in the manner that 
she did, on being told by Barclaycard that she would be protected in the event the goods she 
was looking to purchase turned out to be faulty or werent received.
I dont think Ms M is saying that Barclaycard misadvised her in the online chat she had with 
it. But for the sake of completeness, I would like to make it clear that having seen what was 
discussed in this online chat Im satisfied that Barclaycard didnt misadvise Ms M during this 
exchange of messages.
Ms M says that she acted on the advice she received in the online chat she had and called 
Barclaycard. And it was during this placed call that she was told by Barclaycard that she 
would be protected in the event the goods she was looking to purchase using her credit card 
turned out to be faulty or werent received.
Now I accept I cant say for certain Ms M didnt make the call that says she did, but she has 
been unable to provide any documentary evidence of such a call being made and 
Barclaycard has confirmed that it has been unable to trace such a call. So, I think I can 
reasonably conclude, on the balance of probabilities, that Ms M didnt make the call that she 
says she did.  
But even if I was to accept such a call was made, given the complexity around section 
75 claims, what my understanding Ms M knew about the proposed purchase and the lack of 
any detailed contract terms, Im simply not persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that 
Barclaycard would have told her what she says it told her.I appreciate Ms M will be disappointed by my decision, but taking everything into account, I 
find that Barclaycard didnt do anything wrong in declining her claim for a refund, in full or in 
part, for the purchase of goods she made from a supplier based abroad.
I can see that the investigator concluded that even if he was to accept that Ms M was told 
what she says she was told it still wouldnt be appropriate, for a number of reasons, to 
uphold her complaint. But given what I say above I need make no finding on what the 
investigator said in this respect.
I can see that Barclaycard offered Ms M £75 under cover of its (second) FRL and has since 
paid this sum to her. Ive considered the reasons Barclaycard has given for offering and 
paying this sum and I can confirm that Im satisfied that this sum is entirely appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is having paid Ms M £75 Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard 
need do nothing further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman