DRN-3284662
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that esure Insurance Limited declined their claim for a stolen 
mountain bike, under their home contents insurance policy.
Mr W has dealt with the complaint so I will refer to him in my decision.
What happened
In August 2021 a mountain bike was stolen from Mr Ws garden. He says the thieves forced 
open the side gate, which was locked, to gain access to the rear garden where the bike had 
been left. He says the bike was bought as a gift from his son and cost £1,099. 
Mr W says he keeps the bike in a locked shed overnight, but it was kept out of sight in the 
back garden at the time it was stolen. He says the thieves must have watched him return on 
his bike and then waited for him to leave, before forcing entry via the side gate. He made a 
claim to esure under his contents insurance policy for the theft of the bike.  
esure declined the claim. It says any bicycle that cost more than £500 to replace must be 
specified. Because Mr W didnt specify it, no cover was available. 
esure also says the policy doesnt provide cover unless the bicycle was in a locked building 
or locked to an immovable object. It says as Mr Ws bike was in his back garden and not 
locked to an immovable object, his loss isnt covered. 
Mr W says he hoped he would receive £500 towards the cost of his mountain bike, as 
specified in his policy. He says the bike was worth less than £1,088 when it was stolen due 
to wear and tear. esure didnt alter its view and so Mr W referred his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He agreed with esure that the policy 
didnt provide cover in the circumstances described.  
Mr W disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate he will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I have read Mr Ws insurance schedule and policy terms to understand the cover provided. 
The first line on the second page of the policy schedule says:
Specified items - Individual items worth £1,500 or more and pedal cycles worth more than 
£500  none disclosed.
The policy schedule under What you need to do, says Mr W should check this document. It 
says he has a responsibility to ensure:
specified items are insured for the full replacement cost as new at all times. 
And
If you fail to comply with this duty any future claims may be reduced, rejected, additional 
terms applied or your policy voided.
From this I think its clear Mr W was expected to specify his mountain bike on the policy as 
when new its value was more than £500. 
The policy terms under the Theft or attempted theft section says:
What is not covered?
We will not pay for loss or damage to Your pedal cycles if:
 only the pedal cycle wheels/tyres or accessories are stolen or damaged
 the pedal cycle was not in a locked building or securely locked to an immovable object
 it is left or kept in a communal area unless locked to an immovable object.
Mr W says his bike was in the rear garden at the time of the theft. The policy requires the 
bike to be in a locked building or be locked to an immovable object. Mr W explains neither of 
these requirements were met. 
I have thought about Mr Ws comments that his bike was in a secure position hidden from 
view, accessible only via a padlocked gate. His view that had it been in the garden shed it 
wouldnt have been more secure. And that his claim wasnt for the full value of the bike, 
which had depreciated since it was bought. 
I can understand Mr Ws disappointment and frustration that his claim isnt covered. But the 
terms are clear that he must specify up front any bicycle that cost more than £500 when 
new, for cover to be in place. The terms are also clear when it comes to how the bicycle 
must be secured. I acknowledge Mr Ws view that his honesty when making his claim has 
gone against him, and that he has had home insurance in place for over 50 years with only 
three small claims. But I dont think this has an impact on his claim being declined. 
Im sorry that Mr W has suffered a loss, but I think esure behaved fairly when relying on its 
policy terms and declining the claim for the reasons it gave. So, I cant reasonably ask it to 
do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman