DRN-4239456
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyds) offer to settle 
a claim he made on his home insurance policy for a stolen Rolex watch. 
What happened
On 23 June 2023, I issued a provisional decision which explained why I was intending to 
uphold this complaint. I asked the parties to let me have their response to the provisional 
decision by 7 July 2023. This is what I said in my provisional decision: 
What happened
Mr M made a claim on his home insurance policy, in November 2022, for two Rolex 
watches that he believed had been stolen by a tradesperson working in his property.
On 13 December 2022, Lloyds offered Mr M £8,850 in settlement of his claim for one 
of the Rolex watches. However, Mr M didnt accept that offer because he believed it 
was significantly less than the value of an antique watch of the same year as his, 
available for purchase from the second-hand market. Mr M accepted Lloyds offer in 
relation to the other watch, so I wont be addressing that part of his claim, in this 
decision.
After being provided with some additional detail as to the watches Lloyds offer was 
based on, in February 2023, Mr M complained to Lloyds. He said he would either 
accept a cash offer for the limit specified by his policy, or a cash settlement for the 
higher second-hand market value for a Rolex manufactured in the same year. An 
offer of £8,850.00 against a valuation of £18,500.00 seemed unfair and ridiculous to 
him.
The complaint handler at Lloyds explained that the year of manufacture doesnt 
impact the new replacement value of the watch because the watches of a more 
recent manufacture date are all made to the same specifications of the model. He 
said that if a watch of the same year of manufacture was to be obtained, it would 
need to be sourced from the second- hand market, which were selling for well over 
the recommended retail price. He explained that resellers are able to charge a 
premium on those watches because they are sought after and there is no wait time. 
However, it was difficult to confirm whether second-hand Rolex watches were 
genuine.
Lloyds issued its final response not upholding Mr Ms complaint on 
22 February 2023. It invited Mr M to provide details of the second-hand watches hed 
found, showing the watches were for the same year, same specification, and the 
amount they were being sold for.
On 28 February 2023, Mr M sent four advertisements for similar watches from the 
1970s, which he said were classed as antique. The value of the watches in the 
advertisements ranged between £21,000 and £29,000.
On 9 March 2023, after considering the advertisements hed sent, Lloyds issued a 
further response explaining that it wasnt able to consider the second-hand market 
value because the policy covers the cost of replacement as new, if available, or 
otherwise to the nearest equivalent. Its supplier confirmed that they didnt stock any 
of the same year watch, so had validated the claim on the basis of the nearest 
equivalent. 
Mr M was unhappy with Lloyds further response to his complaint, so referred it to 
this service. On 24 March 2023, in response to a request from our investigator to 
evidence the cost to Mr M of replacing his watch in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, Lloyds supplier sent information showing the watch had a current 
purchase price of £9,000. They explained the watch was the nearest equivalent in 
the same quality and specification to the original watch which could be bought new in 
todays market.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint and said that because Lloyds didnt pay 
him the £8,850 offered, it should now pay £9,000 to settle the claim together with 8% 
interest. Mr M ultimately accept the view, however, Lloyds did not, and requested an 
ombudsmans decision on the complaint. Lloyds thought that awarding 8% on the 
entire settlement sum was unfair because it had made Mr M a fair offer of £8,850 in 
December 2022, which he had rejected. Lloyds was also of the opinion that it was 
only inflation that had caused the value of the watch to increase.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. While Lloyds accepted Mr Ms 
claim, the amount its offered in settlement of his claim hasnt been agreed.
Lloyds provided this service with an email from its supplier, dated 24 March 2023, 
which provided a link to a replacement watch. The supplier explained the watch is the 
closest replacement within the current range. Since the claim was assessed in 
December, the value of the Rolex had increased to £9,000. The supplier said that if 
Lloyds was happy to increase the settlement to that amount, she would send an 
amended quote to reflect the new value.
In considering whether Lloyds have made a fair and reasonable offer to settle Mr Ms 
claim, Ive first looked at the policy terms. Page 9 of the policy terms and conditions, 
under What else do you need to know? says:
We use other companies (who we call suppliers) to repair or replace your 
things..Where we use suppliers, we might get discounts. We will use their cost to 
us when settling claims. What we mean is, we wont pay more than it would cost us 
to repair, replace an item or rebuild any part of your home.
Well replace an item with a new item on a like for like basis. When we say, like for 
like basis, we mean well try to replace it with an exact match. If we cant find an 
exact match, well replace it with the nearest equivalent.
By nearest equivalent we mean an item of the same quality and same specification. 
The policy terms clearly state that an item will be replaced with a new item on a like 
for like basis. I therefore think its reasonable for Lloyds to use a reputable supplier 
to provide a value for the watch based on a new equivalent watch. I dont think it is 
reasonable to expect Lloyds to base a cash settlement on a product that is from the second-hand market at potentially an inflated price. 
Lloyds said that the value its settlement ought to be based on is the £8,850 
originally offered to Mr M. However, Mr M wasnt satisfied that the amount was 
correct and brought his complaint to this service. As Lloyds ought to be aware, in 
considering a cash settlement offered by a respondent business, we usually think its 
fair for the business to pay the consumer the cost to them of replacing the item. And 
it was only after our investigator had requested a link to a watch that was currently for 
sale available for Mr M to purchase at that price, that Lloyds demonstrated the watch 
could be purchased by him for £9,000. Regardless of whether the increased value 
was likely due to inflation or some other reason, it is only at that point, that it was 
clear Mr M could purchase the watch on a like for like basis with the settlement 
monies. Im therefore intending to partially uphold this complaint and require Lloyds 
to pay Mr M £9,000 in settlement of his claim, less any applicable excess.
In response to our investigators view, Lloyds also said that it was unfair of this 
service to award 8% interest on the settlement sum. So, Ive next carefully 
considered whether 8% interest should be awarded to Mr M.
When Lloyds first offered £8,850 to Mr M in settlement of his claim, he rejected the 
offer on the basis that he believed it should be in the region of the limit the watch was 
insured for, of approximately £18,000, which he explains was based on a recent 
valuation of the watch. However, that valuation was stolen with the watch, so there 
isnt any available evidence to support Mr Ms expectation for an increased 
settlement amount. On the other hand, Lloyds used a reputable supplier in the 
market to provide a valuation based on new watches of the same specification. And 
while, a few months later the value to Mr M was shown to be £150 higher than the 
offer made by Lloyds, Im currently of the view that overall, Lloyds made a fair offer to 
settle Mr Ms claim.
I concluded that Lloyds should pay Mr M £9,000 less any applicable excess, in settlement of 
his claim.
Lloyds responded to say it accepted the provisional decision. Mr M didnt provide a 
response. As the deadline for sending a response the provisional decision has passed, I 
consider it appropriate to now proceed to issue my final decision on this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new arguments or information for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. 
For the reasons given in this decision and my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to settle Mr Ms claim as detailed below.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay Mr M the 
sum of £9,000 less any applicable excess, in settlement of his claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to pay the award detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman