DRN-1430567
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when lending to him. 
What happened 
Between April 2017 and May 2018 Sunny provided Mr C with 46 instalment loans. When 
they were arranged, all these loans were originally due to be repaid in 24 weekly 
instalments. Mr C took out loans that ranged between £50 and £1000. 
Heres a table setting out details of the first ten loans:
 
loan 
date taken 
date repaid 
weekly 
instalments 
amount 
highest monthly*
repayment
1 06/04/2017 26/05/2017 24 £1,000.00 £383.75
2 28/04/2017 25/05/2017 24 £300.00 £498.00
3 06/05/2017 11/05/2017 24 £50.00 £516.90
4 11/05/2017 25/05/2017 24 £100.00 £536.35
5 18/05/2017 25/05/2017 24 £50.00 £574.40
6 26/05/2017 26/05/2017 24 £100.00 £37.80
7 28/05/2017 26/10/2017 24 £1,000.00  
8 09/06/2017 15/06/2017 24 £50.00 *
9 20/06/2017 07/07/2017 24 £50.00 *
10 23/06/2017 07/07/2017 24 £50.00 *
*combined monthly repayment where loans overlapMr C feels that Sunny didnt do proper affordability checks and that these loans werent 
affordable for him.  
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Cs complaint. He didnt think hed seen enough to say that 
loans 1 and 2 shouldnt have been lent  but he felt that by loan 3 Sunny shouldve seen that 
it was unlikely that Mr C wouldve been able to sustainably meet the repayments for this loan 
 or any subsequent loans. And by loan 7 our adjudicator felt that Mr Cs overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested hed become persistently reliant on short-term loans. So our 
adjudicator said Sunny shouldnt have lent to him from loan 3 onwards and he gave detailed 
directions setting out what he thought Sunny should do to put things right for Mr C. 
Sunny didnt agree with everything our adjudicator said but accepted that lending to him from 
loan 29 onwards may not have been sustainable. So Sunny offered to partially uphold Mr Cs 
complaint from loan 29 onwards. Sunny said that as Mr C hadnt repaid more than he 
borrowed there was no refund due. But it also said it would write off the outstanding balance 
that Mr C still owed in respect of unpaid loans so that Mr C wouldnt have to pay Sunny 
anything further.
Mr C rejected this offer. So his complaint comes to me to decide.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.Sunny was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr C. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Sunny what he normally spent each month. And Sunny also 
carried out checks on Mr Cs credit file. 
I agree with the adjudicator that looking at the information Mr C told Sunny about his income 
and outgoings and what Sunny had recorded about his financial situation, it wasnt wrong for 
Sunny to give him loans 1 and 2. These loans all looked comfortably affordable for Mr C, 
based on what hed said to Sunny about his finances - even taking into account the 
combined monthly repayments on both loans. It was early in the lending relationship and so 
I think the checks it did were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr C hasnt raised any 
objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to these first two loans, I dont think 
that I need to say more about them. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 3. When he 
asked for this loan I think Sunny shouldve been concerned that this wasnt affordable for 
Mr C. I say this because when Mr C took out loan 3, he still had to make the monthly 
repayments for loans 1 and 2 as well. Although loan 3 was for a relatively small amount  
just £50  it appears the combined monthly repayments for all these loans together came to 
over £500. Looking at the figures Sunny collected, this was a significant proportion of Mr Cs 
monthly income  around a quarter of his declared total monthly income and about half his 
recorded monthly disposable income when he applied for this loan. 
Ive taken into account that Sunny says Mr C still wouldve had around £550 left in the bank 
after paying his Sunny loans. But I dont think its likely that, realistically, this was sufficient 
for him to be able to sustainably pay for this borrowing. The income and expenditure figures 
Sunny collected give a useful snapshot of his main costs - but dont cover everything that 
Mr C wouldve likely needed to spend money on. When looking at this loan application, I 
think Sunny needed to bear in mind that Mr C was expecting to be paying loan 3 for around 
six months  and hed be paying loans 1 and 2 for most of that time as well as they were all 
taken out within the space of a month or so. So I dont think that it was reasonable in these 
circumstances for Sunny to provide loan 3 to Mr C. And I think Sunny shouldve realised that 
this loan, and any further lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr C. 
To my mind thats borne out by the fact that Mr C repaid loan 3 just 5 days later and 
straightaway borrowed double the amount (£100) on loan 4. And although Sunny says it 
allowed customers to take out up to four loans at any one time, that doesnt mean that loan 3 
was affordable for Mr C. Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr C to see if there was 
a point at which Sunny reasonably shouldve seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt have provided further loans. 
I think by loan 7 Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful. I say this because:
Mr C had taken out loan 3 before he had finished paying any of his earlier loans. He 
took out loan 4 the same day he paid loan 3, whilst his other loans were still running. 
He asked for loan 6 the next day after paying loans 2, 4 and 5, and apparently paid 
loan 6 back the same day he took it out, when he also paid loan 1. He successfully 
applied for loan 7 just 2 days later
this suggests that Mr C couldnt sustainably afford to repay what he had borrowed 
without borrowing again 
whilst I've taken into account that the loan amounts varied, this record of borrowing 
doesnt suggest that Mr C was asking to borrow because of a new need for a short 
term loan. Rather, I think this indicated that overall he was having problems 
managing his money in a well planned way 
Sunny didnt necessarily do anything wrong when it loaned again to Mr C before hed 
paid all his earlier loans. But Sunny shouldve seen that he wasnt making any real 
inroads into clearing his debt
and by now, Sunny ought to have known that Mr C probably wasnt using the loans 
for their intended purpose and borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in income but 
to meet an ongoing need. 
 
I think that Mr C lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 onwards 
when:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time  
the number of loans was likely to have a negative impact on Mr Cs ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint from loan 3 onwards and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr C as though they had been repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr C having made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny 
should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr C. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr C.
 
E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Cs credit file for loans 3, 4, 5 and 6. The overall 
pattern of borrowing by loan 7 means any information recorded about loan 7 and all 
the loans that followed is adverse. So all entries about loan 7 onwards should be 
removed from Mr Cs credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Cs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman