DRN-1629741
The complaint
Mr K complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited and their decision to decline his 
warranty claim after his phone developed a fault.
What happened
In December 2018, Mr K was provided with a replacement phone under the terms of his 
mobile phone insurance policy. Assurant provided a 12-month warranty with this phone, 
which mirrored the warranty terms of the phones manufacturer.
In July 2019, Mr Ks phone developed a fault. The phone was unable to connect to its 
network and internet. So, Mr K made a claim on the warranty policy. He sent the phone to 
Assurant using the pre-paid bag that was provided, alongside the supporting warranty tick 
sheet. When Assurant received Mr Ks phone, they found the screen had been damaged in 
the top right-hand corner. Because of this, they thought the warranty had been voided. They 
explained this to Mr K and sent the phone back to him. But Mr K was unhappy, so he raised 
a complaint.
Mr K complained about Assurants decision not to repair the phone. He explained hed sent 
the phone to them in good condition without any damage to the screen. And that hed sent it 
to them in bubble wrap with a screen protector, as hed been instructed to do. So, he didnt 
think it was fair for Assurant to not repair the phone and to send it back in a worse condition 
than when hed sent it.
Assurant didnt agree. They thought the phone had been damaged before it was sent to 
them. Their warehouse had confirmed the phone didnt have a screen protector when it was 
received. And a photo was taken as soon as it was received to show it had a cracked 
screen. So, as the phone was damaged, they thought the warranty had been voided. They 
explained Mr K had already used his three repair claims on his insurance policy, so they 
were unable to repair the phone under this. For these reasons, they thought theyd acted 
fairly and didnt need to do anything more.
Mr K didnt agree. He was unhappy Assurant werent unable to provide the warranty tick 
sheet he sent with the phone, which showed the phone wasnt damaged when it had been 
sent. So, he still thought Assurant had acted unfairly. As Mr K remained unhappy, he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought, on the balance of 
probability, it was most likely the phone has been damaged in transit. And she didnt think 
Assurant had provided evidence to show a cracked screen voided the entire warranty policy. 
So, she didnt think theyd acted fairly by returning the phone without investigating the fault 
Mr K had sent it to them for. So, she thought Assurant should investigate the fault and repair 
it, unless there was conclusive evidence to show it was caused by the cracked screen. She 
also thought Assurant should pay Mr K £100 to recognise the inconvenience hed been 
caused.
Assurant didnt agree. They explained they were unable to determine when the damage was 
caused. But they had evidence to show it was received at their warehouse damaged and Mr 
K was unable to provide evidence of its condition when it was sent. And they explained to 
investigate the fault of the phone, the damaged screen would need to be removed and 
replaced at their cost. They explained the phone manufacturer would not repair a phone with 
damage under warranty, and their warranty is designed to replicate this. So, they didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong. As Assurant didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Ive focused first on the main area of dispute between Mr K and Assurant. Mr K says the 
phone was in good condition, with no screen damage, when he sent the phone to Assurant. 
And Assurant dispute this, as they say the phone was received by them with a crack in the 
screen. So, Ive considered both sides version of events alongside the evidence available 
and decided what I think, on the balance of probability, is most likely to have happened.
Its not disputed that there was a crack on the screen of the phone. And I dont dispute that 
the phone was received by Assurant in this condition. But this doesnt mean Mr K sent the 
phone to them with the screen already damaged.
Ive seen a generic version of the forms sent out to Mr K by Assurant after he requested to 
make a claim. These gave clear information on how to send the phone to them and made it 
clear that it needed to be packed carefully. Mr K says he sent the phone to Assurant with a 
screen protector and wrapped in bubble wrap. Assurant say a screen protector wasnt with 
the phone and provided a picture of the phone without one. Although I cant say for certain 
whether a screen protector was included, I can see theres no dispute that the phone was 
packaged in line with Assurants request. And it was in Mr Ks interests to do so. So, I think 
Mr K did everything he could do to ensure the phone was safe while in transit.
The forms also included a warranty tick list for Mr K to complete. This allowed him to mark 
the condition of the phone and the fault he wanted to be investigated. Mr K says he 
completed this and ticked that there was no damage on the phone and the issue was no 
network. Mr K has requested a copy of this from Assurant to show the phone was sent with 
no damage. But Assurant have confirmed this form was destroyed by their warehouse when 
the phone was received.
I think this form was a crucial part of the agreement between Mr K and Assurant when he 
sent his phone to them for investigation. And I can understand why Mr K is unhappy that its 
been destroyed as hes now unable to rely on it. I dont think Mr K wouldve requested a 
copy of this form had it not said the phone had no pre-existing damage. And I dont think its 
reasonable for me to say that hed mark this incorrectly. If he did, hed be aware the claim he 
was making would be clearly identified as false when Assurant received the phone. So, I 
think its most likely that Mr K sent the phone with no damage. As it was received by 
Assurant with damage, I think its most likely the phone was damaged in transit. 
So, Ive then considered whether its fair for Assurant to decide the warranty is void due to 
the damage, when Mr K sent them a phone to repair without it. Im aware the warranty is 
designed to replace the warranty provided by the phones manufacturer. And Assurant have explained the phones manufacturer dont repair phones under warranty if there is damage. 
In this situation, they explain the customer would need to pay for the repair and the damage 
to the screen.
But I think Mr K sent the phone to Assurant in a condition that qualified for a claim under the 
warranty. Meaning when the phone was sent, I think its most likely there was a fault 
unrelated to the damage caused in transit. Assurant have explained the claim was declined 
as the damage may have caused the fault. But in this situation, I dont think thats likely to be 
the case. So, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Assurant to have investigated the fault 
the phone was sent to them for. And they didnt do so. So, I think theyve acted unfairly by 
declining the claim without investigating the issue further. 
 Putting things right
As I dont think Assurant acted fairly, Ive then thought about what they need to do to place 
Mr K back in the position he wouldve been. And to do this, I first think they need to 
investigate the network fault found on the phone. If this is found to be a manufacturing fault, 
then I think it should be repaired under the terms of the warranty. But, I recognise the 
warranty is in place to repair manufacturing faults only. If there is conclusive evidence to 
show the fault is due to the damage on the phone, then I wouldnt expect the repair work to 
be completed.
Ive also considered the amount of time Mr K has been without a working phone. Had 
Assurant acted fairly, I think the fault wouldve been diagnosed and most likely repaired. 
Even in the situation that it wasnt a fault that was covered by the warranty, Mr K wouldve 
had an answer and been able to choose a different way forward. Assurants failure to do this 
prevented this. And I think this wouldve frustrated Mr K and he wouldve suffered some 
inconvenience. So, to recognise this, I think Assurant should pay Mr K £100.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint about Assurant and I direct them 
to take the following action:
Arrange for Mr Ks phone to be sent back to them safely and securely.
Investigate the network fault of the phone and repair it unless there is conclusive 
evidence to show its damage related.
Pay Mr K £100 to recognise the inconvenience and upset hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman