DRN-3037607
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC stopped the use of his debit card without 
warniing and didnt provide him with the service it should have.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr S debit card was refused when he tried to pay for goods causing him 
embarrassment. He says he was aware his card was due for renewal but hadnt received the 
new card. Mr S contacted Barclays through an online chat and was told a new card was in 
preparation and was told his account would remain closed until the new card arrived. Mr S 
raised a complaint with Barclays through its online form. 
Mr S says he didnt get a response within the promised 48 hours and he opened a new 
online chat on which he was offered a new card. He received a new debit card on 20 
October which he was told he could use immediately. However, when he tried to use the 
card it was invalid. He then received a letter from Barclays saying his complaint had been 
received and he would have a response by 28 October. On 24 October another debit card 
arrived. After using the chip and pin this card worked but by this time Mr S had been without 
access to his account for 16 days. He then received a call from Barclays which wasnt 
convenient and so a call back was arranged which Mr S says didnt happen.
Barclays issued a final response letter dated 1 December 2020. It explained that Mr S debit 
card was initially declined due to it being close to the expiry date and a new card having 
been generated. It said Mr S was told his card would be sent to him within five days when he 
contacted the online chat. As Mr S didnt receive the card and contacted the online chat 
again, Barclays said a new card was issued which was received and worked after using chip 
and pin for the first transaction. 
Barclays apologised for the service Mr S received while contacting Barclays. It said because 
of this and the length of time taken to resolve his complaint it upheld his complaint and paid 
him £200 by way of an apology.
Mr S didnt receive the final response letter and raised a complaint with this service. After 
being sent a copy of Barclays response he still didnt accept this was sufficient. He said 
Barclays hadnt discussed his complaint with him or explained the process of receiving a 
new debit card and that he could be without the use of his account for a period of time. He 
said the service provided wasnt as it should have been.  
Our investigator noted that Mr S hadnt been provided with the service he should have been. 
He said Barclays had acknowledged this in its final response letter and he thought the 
compensation of £200 paid by Barclays was reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree without investigators view. He didnt think it right that Barclays had 
invalidated his card three weeks before its expiry date without notification and without 
checking he had access to other funds. He didnt accept Barclays apology as sincere and 
said the compensation wasnt enough given he was locked out of his account for almost 
three weeks while there was a pandemic and he needed to make payments using his card. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S wasnt provided with the service he should have been by Barclays. His debit card was 
stopped before the expiry date and before he had received the replacement card. He wasnt 
told this would happen and I can understand why he was embarrassed when his transaction 
was declined. There was then an issue as Mr S saw the new details on his app and as he 
didnt recognise these he froze this card. Given Mr S hadnt received the new card and didnt 
recognise the details I think his actions were reasonable. This meant a further card needed 
to be issued. 
Barclays has accepted that it didnt provide Mr S with the service it should have noting the 
lack of contact and time taken to resolve Mr S complaint. It apologised and paid Mr S £200 
compensation.
As I agree that Mr S wasnt provided with the service he should have been I have considered 
whether the redress provided by Barclays is reasonable. My role isnt to punish a business 
but where mistakes have been made to ensure that the customer is put back in the position 
they would have been had the mistakes not been made and, where appropriate, award 
compensation. 
In this case, Mr S now has a working debit card and so the underlying issue has been 
resolved. However, he was without access to his account for over two weeks and I note his 
comments about being caused embarrassment by his card being declined. Mr S didnt 
receive a copy of Barclays final response.
Having taken the above issues into account I think that the £200 paid by Barclays is 
reasonable. I say this because I have nothing to suggest that Mr S was caused any financial 
loss by the issues with his card and I can see that he was provided with a timeline for the 
new card when he contacted Barclays. When the card didnt arrive, a new card was issued 
in a timely way. Therefore, while I understand that Mr S was without use of his card for a 
period of time and was caused inconvenience by having to contact Barclays about this and 
then to order a second replacement card, I can see that Barclays did take actions to ensure 
Mr S was provided with a new card. I also note that while Mr S didnt receive the final 
response letter, this was issued, and I have no reason to suggest that it wasnt sent to Mr S. 
This included information about what had happened and apologised for the mistakes. I note 
Mr S comments about the apology but in this case I can see an apology was made and the 
mistakes acknowledged. Therefore, on balance, I think that £200 compensation is 
reasonable in this case.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has done enough to resolve this complaint. 
Therefore, I do not require it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman