DRN-3838863
The complaint
Mr P complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor insurance 
policy and refused to pay a claim he wanted to make.
What happened
Mr P took out a car insurance policy with Advantage through a price comparison website. 
Advantage said it cancelled his policy because it was informed by the Motor Insurance 
Bureau (MIB) that Mr P was found to have been driving his wifes car without a valid driving 
licence. Advantage said the MIB explained that Mr P had been disqualified from driving and 
there was no evidence he had renewed his licence after the period of disqualification ended. 
Mr P complained, he said he went to court and successfully appealed against the 
disqualification. He said his licence was valid, he explained that he had applied to renew his 
licence, but he hadnt heard from the DVLA yet because it was experiencing delays due to 
the Covid 19 pandemic. Mr P said he wasnt stopped by the police, but he had an accident 
because he had a heart attack while driving and they attended the scene. He also said his 
wifes car was damaged in the accident and he wants Advantage to cover the cost he 
incurred. 
Advantage didnt change its position because it didnt think Mr P had shown his licence had 
been renewed when he had driven his wifes car. It also said he was only entitled to third 
party cover while driving her car and so it wouldnt cover the damage to it. 
Mr P brought his complaint to our service. Advantage also says it wouldnt have provided 
him with insurance cover if he had disclosed his conviction and subsequent ban when he 
took out his policy. It said Mr P answered the question he was asked about any driving 
convictions or bans in the last five years incorrectly, and it considered this to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld. He thought Advantage was 
entitled to cancel his policy and retain the premium hed paid. He didnt think Advantage was 
required to pay Mr Ps losses from the accident. Our investigator also agreed there had been 
a qualifying misrepresentation.
Mr P didnt accept what our investigator said, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the circumstances of Mr Ps accident, and I appreciate it would have 
been upsetting to find out his policy was cancelled during what was already a difficult time 
for him and his family. However, I must put aside my feelings of empathy and consider his 
complaint impartially. Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and 
for similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Policy cancellation
Ive thought about whether Advantage acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and whether its reason for cancelling Mr Ps policy was fair and reasonable. 
The terms and conditions of the policy say: 
We and your Insurer can cancel your Policy at any time by sending you seven days written 
notice to the last postal or email address on our system, stating why the Policy has been 
cancelled
Theres no dispute Mr P had been convicted of a motoring offence and subsequently 
disqualified from driving. Im satisfied the documentation he provided shows his driving 
disqualification ended in October 2021 and he was required to apply to renew his licence.
Mr P says he had submitted his application for his licence and sent a cheque to pay for it. He 
says the cheque was cashed and he was awaiting his licence from the DVLA. Even if I 
accept that Mr P had taken all the necessary steps to renew his licence, I dont think the fact 
he had applied for it, or that his cheque had ben cashed, is enough to say it had been 
renewed and could be considered valid when his policy was cancelled. 
Advantage asked Mr P to provide proof from the DVLA to show it had accepted his renewal 
application. I think thats a reasonable request. Mr P told Advantage he had not yet heard 
from the DVLA. Once the application was processed and had been approved, I think its 
likely he would have received some confirmation from the DVLA, which he could have 
provided as proof his licence was valid. Based on the information that is available, Im not 
persuaded Mr Ps licence had been renewed by that time. So, I dont think its unreasonable 
for Advantage to conclude Mr P didnt have a valid licence at the time.
The terms entitled Advantage to cancel the policy if its  prevented from providing cover 
under this Policy by law or other reason. Advantage said it couldnt provide cover because 
Mr Ps licence wasnt valid, and I think what it said is reasonable. But it must give seven 
days notice of cancellation and Im satisfied it did so. As such, I dont think it acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in cancelling Mr Ps policy.
Advantage also mentioned to our service that had Mr P disclosed his driving conviction at 
inception, it wouldnt have provided him cover and it thinks he made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. Our investigator agreed Mr P had misrepresented information when he 
applied for cover. I think what theyve said is reasonable, but I dont think I need to comment 
on this any further, this is because Im satisfied Advantage was entitled to cancel Mr Ps 
policy when it did. 
Declined claim
However, as it cancelled the policy with effect from 15 April 2023, it must consider claims 
made during the time the policy was in effect. Mr Ps accident occurred during the period the 
policy was in place and he would like Advantage to cover a claim for the damage to his 
wifes car, and other associated costs he incurred. Advantage says Mr P didnt make a 
claim, but even if did, he only had third party cover while driving his wifes car, so he wouldnt 
be covered for the damage to the car from the accident. I think what it said is fair and 
reasonable. 
The terms show that Mr P would only be provided third party cover when driving someone elses car. Under section 3 of the policy terms it specifically states: any loss or damage to 
the Private Motor Car youre driving isnt included. So, Im satisfied Advantage need not pay 
for the damage to his wifes car. It said it didnt receive any third-party claims in relation to 
the incident, so it doesnt need to consider this, and I think thats reasonable.
I would also add that Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy, and I dont think it 
covered him to drive his partners car. 
In light of all this, and while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, Im satisfied 
Advantages decision to cancel his policy was fair and reasonable, and I dont think it needs 
to do anything differently in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman