DRN-3018335
The complaint
Ms A complains that, in 2019, Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a packaged bank 
account (PBA). She says she was misled about the benefits that were offered and has lost 
out. She says she discovered her computer wasnt covered by the gadgets insurance when 
it needed to be repaired.
What happened
Ms A had had a bank account with Barclays for several years. In April 2019, during a 
meeting with Barclays, Ms A took out a Tech Pack, which is an addition to her normal bank 
account. It cost £12.50 per month.
The Tech Pack included insurance cover against loss, damage and breakdown for mobile 
phones and gadgets.
Later, when Ms As desktop computer needed to be repaired, she was told it was not 
covered.
Ms A says:
At the time I was sold the insurance, I was told by a Barclays representative that the 
good thing about this insurance is that it covers: mobile phones, computers PCs and 
laptops and all electronic gadgets. [And]  at the time when I was sold this 
insurance I had had my mobile phone stolen and had gone to my bank and I was told 
that it was imperative to buy this insurance that most people had it.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Ms A didnt agree, and so the matter came to me to make a decision.
I took a similar view of the case to that of the adjudicator. But I thought it would be fair to 
make clear my view on several issues, including some raised by Ms As representatives, and 
then give everyone the chance to comment further. So I wrote a provisional decision saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank 
accounts. Ive kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
The standard of sale
When a bank sells a financial product, such as a PBA or insurance, there are two 
different types of sale. One is an advised sale in which the bank assesses the 
customers individual circumstances and needs, and then recommends a product 
 if it recommends a product that is inappropriate or unsuitable, this could amount 
to a mis-sale. The other type of sale is a non-advised sale: this is when the bank 
instead tells the customer about a product, but leaves it only to the customer to 
decide whether the product is right for them. The bank must make sure it is giving 
the customer enough information so they can decide for themselves.
I think Barclays sale of the PBA to Ms A was a non-advised sale: from what we 
know of its processes, its staff didnt suggest they were making a personal 
recommendation; and Barclays literature, in the sale to Ms A, also said it wasnt 
making a recommendation.
The question then is whether Barclays gave Ms A enough fair and clear 
information about the terms of the insurance, so she could make an informed 
choice. If it didnt do this properly, I would then have to decide whether better 
information would have made a difference.
I must decide all this on the balance of probabilities  that is, what is most 
likely to have happened.
Information given to Ms A
Ms A appears to have wanted the insurance in the Tech Pack to cover her 
mobile phone. But, from what shes said, I think it likely she bought the Tech 
Pack also for the gadget cover. So how clearly she was told, about what was 
included in the gadget cover, is important.
Ms A says she was directly told that all electronic gadgets including 
computers, PCs and laptops were covered. However, of these, the policy says 
only laptops were covered.
I accept its possible that the Barclays adviser assumed Ms A had a laptop (which 
would have been covered) when Ms A mentioned her computer, and so gave her 
wrong information; or that the adviser was in some other way misleading. But it 
wouldnt be fair to make Barclays prove that it didnt do something wrong like this. 
Instead Id need reasonable evidence that it did mislead Ms A in what it told her.
In assessing this point, I cant fairly rely just on what Ms A remembers from the 
conversation. It is very easy for someone to misremember the exact details of a 
conversation, or to misunderstand what they are being told, even if the other 
person is being careful.
As it was sold face-to-face and not on the phone, there wont be a recording.
Also, Ms A has suggested she was in a distressed state at the time, because her 
mobile phone had very recently been stolen. Ms A has suggested that it was the 
theft of her phone that led to a member of Barclays staff telling her about the 
Tech Pack insurance.
Overall, I dont have enough evidence to conclude that Barclays adviser did tell 
Ms A her desktop computer would be covered.
Ive looked at the written information to see how clear that was. In my view it 
wasnt perfect, but I think it was probably reasonably fair, clear and not 
misleading. In saying this, Ive looked at the Welcome Pack that was sent to Ms A 
 I dont know whether she was shown other written information when actually 
buying the Tech Pack, but its likely it would have been similar.
The Welcome Pack says, on page 1, in a clearly set out section:
Gadget Cover
Protect your essential gadgets such as tablets, smartwatches, 
camcorders, digital cameras, laptops, and more. For further help in understanding what is or isnt covered as being a gadget please refer 
to The cover you receive section of the Policy Document.
On page 4 it says, under The cover you receive:
A gadget is a portable electronic device that contains its own 
power source (for example battery or solar power)
That sections also says to look under What you are NOT covered for, for a list 
of items to help you understand what we exclude.
Later on, on page 7, it says:
We dont cover things such as televisions, monitors, satellite or cable 
TV receivers, games consoles
I dont think that, when Barclays included laptops in the list on page 1, it 
would expect people to believe desktop computers were included.
The meaning of the word gadget by itself isnt, in everyday life, very clear. Different 
people would say it includes different things.
Even the Oxford English Dictionary isnt very specific. It defines gadget as:
a (small) mechanical or electronic device, esp. one regarded as 
ingenious or novel; an ingenious or practical device or tool.
In such circumstances, I think it would be reasonable for someone to want to 
check the policy documents to find out exactly what is covered  if, that is, it will 
make a difference to whether they take the insurance. I think it reasonable if 
Barclays were expecting people to make that check.
And what the Welcome Pack said, on the first main page, was enough to suggest 
that the customer needed to check a bit more carefully: it says, For further help 
in understanding what is or isnt covered as being a gadget please refer to The 
cover you receive section of the Policy Document.
If someone did then look further into what the policy says it covers, they would 
see it had to be a portable electronic device. It would be reasonable for 
Barclays to assume that most people would understand that a desktop computer 
wasnt covered.
It might have been helpful if Barclays had been clearer earlier on  for example 
always referring to something like portable electronic gadgets and making it 
much clearer that it was important to check what wasnt included. But I think the 
information it did give was reasonably clear enough.
So I dont see, in the documents Barclays produced, evidence to say the gadget 
insurance was sold in a misleading way.
Ms A has said that the various medical conditions she lives with made it difficult 
for her to read and take in all the contract information. But it looks like Barclays 
wasnt aware of this at the time. I know Ms A has said that she didnt want to raise 
her medical conditions at the time of the meeting, given that she was already 
feeling panicked. I can understand why. But I dont think Barclays should have 
reasonably known that Ms A may have required reasonable adjustments  or that 
it might have needed to take special care in explaining the policy.So, my current view is that I dont have enough evidence to say the Tech Pack 
was mis-sold to Ms A.
In response to my provisional decision, Barclays didnt make any further comments. Ms A 
did respond. She sent me proof of the medical conditions she is living with, and the severe 
effect these have on her. She also made several points about why she thought I should 
uphold her complaint. The main points were, in summary:
The Barclays sales representative did verbally assure her that her desktop computer 
would be covered by the insurance. She has been a long-term customer of Barclays 
and she trusted and relied on the representative. 
Because of her medical conditions she had to rely on what the representative said, 
as she was unable to read through lots of text.
The nature of the medical conditions actually meant it would have been very difficult 
for her to inform the Barclays representative of those medical conditions. It wouldnt 
be fair to expect someone with these medical conditions to have to inform the 
representative.
Ms A wouldnt have taken the insurance if shed understood her PC wasnt covered. 
She says she bought it entirely for that reason. Ms A says this shows that some 
form of misinformation took place. 
Ms A has spent hundreds of pounds on the insurance believing it would cover her 
PC, but it has been no use to her.
The PC has precious family videos on it, and which she cant now access. This is 
because her circumstances mean she cant afford to repair the PC. 
The refusal to pay for the repair of her PC has made her medical condition worse. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Ms A has told me. I am very sorry to hear of the immense 
difficulties Ms A has to contend with, and also the effect on her of having her insurance claim 
turned down. 
What I have to look at is whether Barclays mis-sold the insurance pack to Ms A. In judging 
that, Im looking at the evidence about what is most likely to have happened, and how strong 
the evidence is that Barclays mis-sold the insurance. 
Even though I do have a great deal of sympathy for Ms As situation, I cant allow it to cloud 
my assessment of the issues. 
I completely understand why Ms A didnt tell Barclays about her medical conditions. But, as 
she didnt do this, I cant fairly say Barclays did something wrong in not adjusting how it dealt 
with her. I accept that Ms A did understand that her PC would be covered (and she has previously 
also said the insurance was suggested to also cover her phone). I can see she wouldnt 
have taken the insurance if it didnt cover the PC as well as her phone  I would imagine she 
wouldnt have thought it worth the monthly cost of £12.50. But this doesnt, by itself, prove 
that the Barclays representative did something to mislead her. For example, one possibility 
is that Ms A misunderstood what the representative said, despite the representatives best 
efforts. 
The problem is that I simply cant know what was said and how it was said. And, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, it wouldnt be fair to make Barclays prove that its 
representative didnt do something wrong. Instead Id need reasonable evidence of 
misrepresentation by Barclays  and I cant say that I have that evidence. 
So, overall, I havent found that Barclays mis-sold the insurance package. 
Ms A has said that, on compassionate grounds, her complaint should be upheld. This would 
be a matter for Barclays to consider  that is whether it thinks it should do something such 
as cover Ms As repair costs or refund her premiums, even though legally it doesnt have to. 
But making such a gesture wouldnt be something Id require of Barclays, based on what it 
knew at the time about Ms As medical conditions. This is because I dont think such a 
position would be unreasonable. But this wouldnt stop Barclays from considering such a 
gesture now if it thought that right. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Ms As complaint, for the reasons set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman