DRN-3116479
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
 
For the avoidance of doubt, Mrs Bs mortgage ended in 2004  so the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in 
Plevin1 about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgement, arent applicable. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Lloyds has provided a copy of Mrs Bs further advance 
(Homeowner loan) application from 2002. Looking at this I can see towards the end of 
the form Mrs B ticked a box to say that she wanted PPI. If she didnt want the cover she 
couldve ticked the alternative box immediately underneath.
The application doesnt say or imply that PPI had to be taken out, so taking everything 
into account I think Mrs B chose to take out PPI and likely did so without undue pressure.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example Mrs B was eligible for the cover 
(despite telling us she was a new starter at the time, the documents from the time of the 
sale show shed been employed for around 18 months) and she said she didnt have any 
means  such as sick pay or savings  she could use to make the repayments on her 
mortgage if she wasnt working. So I think she had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And although Mrs B says she had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended it. I say this because what Mrs B told us about happened when she was 
around 10 years old and she hasnt said or implied that she suffered ongoing problems 
into adulthood or that it impacted her ability to work. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
I accept its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs B as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. At less than £5 a month it also looks like it was affordable  
so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of 
this I dont think Mrs B would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman