DRN-3384481
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd (Blue Motor).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Blue Motor, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr D. The car here was about 
three years old and had already completed 65,940 miles. So, I think a reasonable person 
would expect it to have some wear and tear present.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Blue Motor were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Mr D says he noticed the banging from the front of the car when he test drove the car and if 
that was the case I would expect Blue Motor to take responsibility for that fault.
But I cant see any evidence of that fault being reported until December 2020 about 11 
months after Mr D took receipt of the car. I dont think it would be fair to suggest that was 
because of Covid restrictions as the dealership have explained they were open from May 
2020. The relevant legislation says that if the fault is reported after the first six months the 
onus falls on the consumer to demonstrate that fault was present from the start and would 
therefore be Blue Motors responsibility to fix. 
I dont think Mr D has provided sufficient information to suggest that was the case. Ive 
reviewed the report from the garage Mr D asked to take a look at the car in February 2022. 
That report says the top mount and bearing and top of the coil spring have been damaged 
and that due to the corrosion noted the damage has been there from before 2019. I dont 
think it would be fair to suggest that garage is independent as its a business I think could 
fairly expect to benefit from being given the repair work. Im also not persuaded there is 
sufficient evidence to support their assertion that the damage pre-dates the supply of the car 
to Mr D. Theres no explanation, for instance, of why the extent of the corrosion would be 
considered to be three years old.
So, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence this car was of unsatisfactory condition 
when supplied.
Mr D has also suggested the car hadnt been serviced since 2017 and was advertised with a 
full service history but didnt have one. Ive seen a record of the service history that explains 
a service was carried out on 30 October 2019, so I dont think theres sufficient evidence to 
support Mr Ds claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman