DRN-2813197
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2000 to
protect a loan. Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Mr R aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before
adding it to his loan. There is limited information available from the time this policy was sold
and I cant know for certain what was discussed when Mr R applied for his loan and PPI.
But from what I know about how Barclays sold this type of policy at the time and the 
examples of application forms Barclays has sent us I think its most likely that Barclays made 
it clear Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
Barclays has told us it recommended the PPI to Mr R, so it had to check that the PPI was
right for him. Mr R has told us he was entitled to sick pay when he applied for the PPI. But 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr R would have received.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Rs circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put
him off taking out the cover, and I think Barclays recommendation to take the policy was 
reasonable.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman
