DRN-2717962
The complaint
The estate of Mr L complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined its 
claims on two decreasing term assurance policies. 
The estate is being represented by Ms B, Mr Ls partner. 
What happened
In March 2011 the late Mr L applied for two decreasing term assurances policies with L&G. 
Mr L made L&G aware of his blood pressure and further information was requested from his 
GP. In June 2011 the application was accepted. 
In January 2020 Mr L was diagnosed with cancer, so he made a claim on both his policies. 
L&G reviewed the claims but decided to decline them and return Mr Ls premiums. It said 
Mr L had failed to make it aware of advice he received from his GP in February 2010 to 
reduce his alcohol. Specifically, L&G said Mr L shouldve made it aware of these 
appointments in response to the following question when he applied for his policies;
Have you ever been medically advised to reduce your alcohol consumption or been referred 
for specialist help to deal with alcohol consumption such as to an alcohol addiction unit or to 
Alcoholics Anonymous?
L&G said Mr L shouldve answered this question differently. It said the GP notes showed 
Mr L had been told to reduce his alcohol. And if this information had been provided to L&G it 
wouldnt have offered him either policy. 
Ms B was unhappy with this decision, so she made a complaint on Mr Ls behalf. But L&G 
didnt reverse its decision. It said it had been made aware of Mr Ls health complications in 
relation to alcohol, by Mr Ls consultant, so it wrote to his GP. The GP records showed Mr L 
had his liver function tested over the years before the application. And in February 2010 the 
GP notes said Mr L was advised to cut further alcohol. 
L&G said that Mr L had experienced alcohol related problems shortly after the policies had 
started and the GP note advising him to reduce his alcohol was only eleven months before 
the policy application. It added with the above medical history, and Mr Ls history of high 
Gamma GT levels before he applied for the policies, it wouldnt have offered him cover. L&G 
added that it had caused avoidable delays when assessing the claim and made an offer of 
£200. 
Ms B remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. She said Mr L hadnt 
been told to reduce his alcohol before he took out the application and this wasnt related to 
his cancer diagnosis. 
Sadly, Mr L died in December 2020. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he thought Mr L made 
a mistake when applying for the policy and that L&G had fairly returned the premiums he 
had paid towards the policy. He said that after reviewing all the medical evidence and 
listening to a call Ms B had with L&G in 2020, he was satisfied Mr L had been told to reduce 
his alcohol before he applied for the policies. 
Ms B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said she couldnt remember 
having the phone call with L&G in 2020 and Mr L had always maintained he wasnt advised 
to reduce his alcohol. She said he always went on his own to the GP and said the 
appointments were in relation to blood tests. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for 
Ms B. Id like to assure her and Mr Ls family I havent made this decision lightly. In doing so, 
Ive looked at and considered all the evidence Ms B and L&G have provided to this service  
and Id like to assure her that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent 
considered it, but because Im focusing instead on whats important to the outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
As the sale of this policy was in 2011, I have considered the Association of British Insurers 
(ABI) Code on Non-Disclosure and Treating Customers Fairly (the Code).
In order to ask L&G to pay the claim in full I would need to be satisfied Mr L hadnt 
misrepresented when applying for this policy, that it was innocent or if L&G wouldve still 
insured him anyway. 
Under the section Notes on innocent non-disclosure or misrepresentation, the Code states 
that typical characteristics of non-disclosure or misrepresentation are;
4.1.1 The question was not clear enough  any ambiguous wording should be construed in 
favour of the customer. 
4.1.2 The question did not apply clearly to the facts in question. 
4.1.3 It was reasonable for the customer to have overlooked the omitted information  for 
example, a minor childhood ailment.
4.2 It is irrelevant whether or not there is a link between the misrepresentation and the cause 
of the claim.
Looking at the above requirements, Im not persuaded any of these situations apply to Mr Ls 
circumstances. The question was clear and having reviewed the GPs notes Im satisfied it 
shouldve been answered differently. The notes say Mr L was told to further reduce his 
alcohol in February 2010 and was told his blood pressure was stable. 
Further, the code explains that innocent misrepresentation includes whether a reasonable 
person wouldve considered that the information wasnt relevant to the insurer. And the 
misrepresentation wouldve resulted in a different underwriting outcome. I can understand why Mr L interpreted the question as he did and why he answered no.  
But I have to consider whether a reasonable person would have mentioned the advice from 
the GP after being asked the question. Overall, Im satisfied they would have mentioned it. 
Mr L had been told to reduce his alcohol within a reasonably short period of time before the 
application. He had also had discussions with his GP in 2009 about his abnormal liver 
results with very high Gamma GT levels. L&G has said this is most likely due to alcohol use.  
And having listened to the call between Ms B and L&G in 2020, Im satisfied  on balance -
the evidence suggests Mr L was aware of his alcohol consumption before he applied for the 
policy. 
I have no doubt Mr L acted honestly and applied for the policy in good faith. But if this 
information had been provided, L&Gs underwriter has confirmed the medical history (alcohol 
and high Gamma GT levels) would have led to both policies being declined  which would 
mean a different underwriting outcome under the Code above. 
I sympathise for Ms Bs situation. But Im unable to uphold a complaint against L&G where it 
hasnt acted unreasonably. Whilst there was a genuine mistake made when applying for the 
policy in respect of the omitted information, it is reasonable for L&G to conclude it would 
have acted differently had it known the full extent of Mr Ls relevant medical history. 
So, Im satisfied L&G hasnt treated Ms B unfairly or acted outside of the relevant regulations 
here. 
How the claim was handled
L&G has offered £200 for the delays it caused when assessing the claim. Ive reviewed the 
claims history and L&Gs reasoning for the delays. Having done so, Im satisfied that £200 is 
fair and reasonable here. L&G admitted it didnt chase information and respond to Ms B as 
quickly as it shouldve. Despite L&G dealing with changes due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it 
says it still shouldve chased the outstanding information on the claim and responded to 
Ms B sooner. This seems reasonable to me and in line with what Id expect in similar cases. 
So, I dont think L&G should offer any further compensation here. 
I appreciate my decision leaves Ms B in a more difficult position as she expected to receive 
the full insurance settlement to help in these sad circumstances. Im sorry to disappoint her, 
but overall, I dont think shes been treated unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr L 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021. 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman