DRN-4056139
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs G hold with Lloyds Bank Plc. Theyre 
unhappy that Lloyds didnt tell them about a packaged bank account (PBA) it offers, one of 
the benefits of which is a discount of 0.2% off any mortgage rate product they might have 
from time to time.
What happened
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs G being identified. Instead Ill provide a brief summary and then focus 
on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mr and Mrs G took the mortgage out in 2004, with another lender which was subsequently 
taken over by Lloyds. For many years, Mr and Mrs G lived abroad and the house was let out 
with Lloyds consent. In 2014, Lloyds introduced the PBA.
In 2022, Mr and Mrs G applied for a new rate; there was a delay whilst they provided proof 
the property was no longer let out. They then found out about the PBA, opened one, and 
said they should have been offered one years earlier, in order to obtain the 0.2% discount on 
the mortgage. The new rate application stalled at this point; Lloyds rejected the complaint 
and it was referred to us. 
Lloyds thought the complaint was time-barred (at least partially) under our rules, A fellow 
ombudsman issued a decision confirming that we could consider it. Meantime, Lloyds 
confirmed that, separately from the outcome of the complaint about the 0.2% discount, it 
would honour the interest rate deal Mr and Mrs G had applied for in 2022. Our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs G asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
First, some general comments. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because 
Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and 
decide whats fair in the round. In doing that, I dont take instruction from either party to the 
complaint. 
We revisit jurisdiction at every stage of our consideration of a complaint. Having looked at 
the decision my ombudsman colleague issued in March 2023, I agree that we are not 
time-barred by our rules from considering this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
The essence of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs G believe Lloyds had an obligation to tell 
them about the PBA and encourage them to open one, not just in 2022 when they applied 
for the new rate on the mortgage, but going all the way back to 2014 when the product was 
launched. I appreciate why they think that, and I acknowledge their strength of feeling. 
However, Im afraid its not as simple as that. 
The sale of PBAs is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and the FCAs rules 
impose strict limitations on how such products are promoted. Thats because PBAs bundle 
together additional services at a cost, and providers have to be satisfied that the entire 
product, not just one individual feature, is suitable for a customer before recommending it to 
them. 
When Lloyds told Mr and Mrs G that encouraging them to open a PBA simply to qualify for 
the 0.2% discount on their mortgage might leave it vulnerable to an allegation of mis-selling, 
it was telling the truth. For that reason, however much they would like me to, Im unable to 
find in their favour. 
Lloyds has already said that it will honour the underlying interest rate deal Mr and Mrs G 
wanted in 2022; thats entirely reasonable and fair. But for the reasons Ive set out above, 
even though they have since opened a PBA, its not obliged to add the discount of 0.2%, nor 
retrospectively apply the discount to their mortgage going back to 2014. 
Thats because the account has to been in existence before the interest rate product is 
applied for. Mr and Mrs G opened their PBA after applying for the new rate, having 
researched it themselves online. These products are well-advertised; Im satisfied 
Mr and Mrs G could have done that research at any time since the account was launched.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman