DRN-1340147
The complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 2000 and 2002. Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs R took out a mortgage with BoS in 2000. At the same time, she was sold a PPI policy. 
The policy cost £28.09 per month. The policy covered Mrs R against not being able to work 
due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. In the event of a successful claim the policy 
would have paid a monthly benefit of £463.63 for up to 24 months per claim.
In 2002 the policy was cancelled. Mrs R took a new mortgage and was sold a new PPI 
policy. The new policy also covered Mrs R against accident, sickness or unemployment. The 
policy cost £30.61 per month and would have paid a monthly benefit of £505.05 for up to 24 
months if Mrs R made a successful claim.
Mrs R complained to BoS about the sale of the policies. BoS didnt agree the PPI had been 
mis-sold and Mrs R asked this service to step in.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So, the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The policies were sold 18 years ago so there is limited information from the time of the sales. 
I will make my decision based on whats more likely to have happened, taking into account 
the evidence available, what both parties have told me and what we know about these types 
of sale.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold because:
Mrs R has told us that when she took out her first mortgage she was told she needed to take 
out a PPI policy in order to have the application approved. Mrs R has said she assumed the 
same applied when she took the second mortgage. BoS has said both policies were optional 
and Mrs R would have been given a choice about whether to take out PPI. BoS has said the 
decision to approve a mortgage application was not dependent on taking out PPI.
The policies were sold during meetings at a branch.
For the 2000 sale BoS has been able to show us a copy of Mrs Rs mortgage application. I 
can see it contains a section on PPI. This section states, We recommend that you consider 
our Mortgage Repayments Insurance Scheme.  I can see that Mrs R has signed a statement below that reads, Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments 
Insurance.  Ive looked at the rest of the application form and I cant see anything that 
suggests the PPI was connected with the decision to approve the application.
So the paperwork suggests that Mrs R was given a choice. I accept that the policy was sold 
during a meeting and I cant know what was said to Mrs R at the time. But the meeting took 
place 20 years ago and I have to take into account that memories do fade over time.
BoS hasnt been able to provide paperwork from the 2002 sale. But we have seen other 
mortgage policies sold by BoS around the same time. And from experience the 
documentation showed that the PPI was optional.
Weighing everything up I think its most likely Mrs R was made aware the policies were 
optional and she chose to take them out. After so many years I can understand why Mrs R 
might not recall this.
BoS has told us that its staff should have recommended the PPI policies to Mrs R. In which 
case it had to check that the PPI was right for her and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances in 2000 and 2002 I think that it was. I say this because:
Mrs R was not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example, 
she didnt have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered. And she wasnt in 
unusual employment situations which might not have been covered. So she would have 
been able to make a claim if shed needed to.
Mrs Rs employers wouldve paid her sick pay if shed become too unwell to work. This was 
up to six months full pay, followed by a further six months half pay. But these particular 
policies wouldve paid a monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay, and for up to 24 months. 
This is much longer than Mrs Rs full sick pay would last. So, I think Mrs R wouldve found 
the benefit useful if she had become too unwell to work, particularly if she was unwell for a 
prolonged period.
And if Mrs R had lost her job the monthly benefit from both policies would mean she could 
use any redundancy pay for other living costs.
Mrs R did have some savings. But Mrs R had chosen to retain her savings rather than pay a 
larger deposit and have a smaller mortgage. This makes me think her savings were 
important to her. And the PPI policies would mean she didnt have to use her savings to pay 
the monthly mortgage repayment if she couldnt work.
Mrs R has told us her brother had offered to help pay her mortgage if she ever got into 
difficulties. Ive no doubt her brother would have wanted to help her. But this type of help 
isnt guaranteed. And Mrs Rs brother might not have been in a position to help her when 
she needed it most.
Mrs R cant recall being given much information about the policies. I cant know after all 
these years exactly what she was told or given at the time. So its possible the information 
BoS gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But she chose to take 
the policies out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like they would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like they were affordable.   
 So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
In summary, I think its likely BoS made Mrs R aware the policies were optional, and she 
chose to buy them. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policies BoS recommended were right for her. And I dont think any clearer or more complete information wouldve made her 
act differently and decline them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman