DRN-4166384
The complaint
Ms W complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited trading as LV=s 
handling of a legal expenses insurance claim.
Where I refer to LV= within this decision, this includes agents and representatives whove 
handled the claim and complaint on its behalf.
What happened
Ms W holds legal expenses insurance with LV=. Shes made a number of claims in respect 
of different matters, as well as a number of complaints about LV=s handling of those claims.
LV= was informed by D, a firm of solicitors who were acting for Ms W, in July 2021 that Ms 
W wanted to make a complaint after it sent her a letter so it could act for her in respect of a 
new claim.
LV= wrote to Ms W about this complaint. Ms W responded saying she didnt know which 
claim LV= was referring to. LV= said it had limited information about the claim. Further 
correspondence was sent by Ms W and LV=. Ms W further complained that LV= wasnt 
treating her fairly, about the handling of the claim and that it was unnecessarily delaying the 
claim. She believed that without those delays, her claim could have been settled.
When LV= rejected her complaint, she referred it to our service. Our investigator thought that 
LV=s position, that it needed further information in order to assess the claim, was fair. 
However, she thought it could have requested information from Ms W sooner, and so should 
pay £100 compensation.
LV= disagreed with our investigator, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
After my initial review of the complaint, I didnt think LV= had done anything wrong, and so 
issued a provisional decision outlining my reasons why I was minded not to uphold Ms Ws 
complaint. 
Ms W didnt respond to my provisional decision. LV= confirmed they were in agreement with 
my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No further information has been provided or points raised in response to my provisional 
decision. Ive considered the evidence available, and remain satisfied that Ms Ws complaint 
shouldnt be upheld as I dont think LV= could reasonably have been asked to do more. My 
reasons for this are the same as I outlined in my provisional decision, and so Ive re-
produced my provisional findings below.
From the evidence available to me, the first contact LV= had with Ms W about this claim was 
on 5 August 2021 when it sent her a letter explaining that complaints about Ds conduct, 
including the contents of its Terms of Engagement letter, would need to be directed to the 
Legal Ombudsman.
Im aware Ms W was particularly unhappy that the letter sent by D contained a section 
requiring her to agree to assume liability in the event of funding not being provided by LV=.
Our services jurisdiction doesnt extend to cover Ds actions, or the contents of this letter. D 
informed LV= of the claim on 27 July 2021. D said Ms W had complained about the letter 
theyd sent her, which was about a new claim. LV= wrote to Ms W just over a week later, as 
Ive outlined above. Ms W responded the same day, querying which claim this was about. 
She chased LV= for a response, and on 10 August 2021, LV= replied to Ms W, saying all 
they had been told by D was that it was regarding a contract dispute. LV= said Ms W hadnt 
given consent to D to share information with LV=, so they couldnt give any more detail.
There was subsequently further correspondence between LV= and Ms W over the next two 
weeks. I dont intend to detail every exchange but they can be summarised as Ms W saying 
she doesnt know which claim LV= was referring to in the letter of 5 August, chasing LV= for 
responses and LV= responding to say the only information they had was that this was a 
contract dispute.
I cant say whether D acted reasonably in declining to provide details of the claim to LV=. As 
I covered earlier, Ds actions dont fall within our services jurisdiction. What I can say is Im 
satisfied LV= acted reasonably in response to that information. It did ask again for the 
information from D, but was told that without her consent, D couldnt give any more detail. In 
light of that, it confirmed this to Ms W.
On 26 August 2021, LV= sent a letter to Ms W asking for details and information about her 
claim. This followed correspondence being received from D which indicated Ms W wanted a 
solicitor of her choice to represent her. That correspondence didnt, from what Ive seen, give 
any detail of Ms Ws claim.
It's my understanding that, to date, LV= hasnt received the requested information from Ms 
W. It says in the absence of that information it cant make any assessment of whether the 
policy provides cover for her claim, or offer any further assistance. Looking at the letter, Im 
satisfied thats a reasonable position. The letter asked for information about whats 
happened and a timeline of what happened. Its fair to say LV= cant assess cover without 
this. Its also fair to say its Ms Ws responsibility to provide information and evidence 
reasonably required by LV= to assess the claim. Im satisfied thats the case here.
LV=s also said that on receipt of that information, it will look to accommodate Ms Ws 
request for Ms W to use her preferred solicitor (subject to the agreement of terms) or pass 
the matter to another of its panel solicitors (as opposed to D), as they recognise the 
relationship between D and Ms W has broken down. Again, thats fair. It recognises Ms Ws 
freedom to choose her solicitor, or use one of its panel solicitors, and doesnt oblige her to 
continue dealing with D.
I have considered, however, whether LV= could have acted sooner to request this 
information from Ms W. I note that around a month elapsed from LV= first being aware of the 
claim to it writing to Ms W asking for information. However, in that period LV= and Ms W 
were in contact about the claim. Ms W was asking which claim they were referring to in 
correspondence, and LV= explained they had very limited information .I think LV=s actions during that month were reasonable. Im aware from the correspondence 
that Ms W referred to having a number of claims, as well as other matters ongoing at the 
time, and so couldnt keep track of exactly which claim this referred to.
I think Ms W had two realistic options when LV= wrote to her, and explained they had very 
limited information about the claim because D had said shed not given her consent to 
release information. The first option would have been to speak to D and give consent for 
information about all the claims she had made, so that LV= could have that information, 
discuss it with D and provide an appropriate response to her. The other would have been for 
Ms W to outline all of her claims to LV=, at which point an assessment could have been 
done of which claims LV= was already aware of, and what was new information.
Rather than take either of those options, Ms W instead continued to say to LV= that she 
didnt know which claim it was referring to in correspondence, despite it having made its 
position clear and explained why it didnt have any more information. Im satisfied that the 
inference from the emails was that without more information being provided either by D or 
Ms W directly, it was unable to assist further.
Ive also considered whether there were any unnecessary delays to responses to Ms Ws 
emails. Even though Ms W was chasing responses, having not heard back from LV=, Im 
satisfied that its responses werent unnecessarily delayed, as they were sent within five 
working days of Ms Ws correspondence. In any case, in the absence of any information 
which would allow LV= to assess the claim further, the source of which would be Ms W 
(either directly or by giving her consent to D), I cant say that any actions of LV= delayed the 
claim.
On balance, therefore, Im unable to agree that LV= acted unfairly in its dealings with Ms W 
on this claim. Its willing to assess the claim further on receipt of further information.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold Ms Ws complaint about Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited  trading as LV=.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman