DRN-4461764
The complaint
Mr K complains that Freedom Finance Limited mis-sold him a second charge mortgage 
(secured loan).
What happened
In September 2019 Mr K contacted Freedom Finance to discuss taking out a secured loan. 
He wanted to explore consolidating existing unsecured debt to reduce his outgoings.
At this time Mr K had a personal loan and a car finance agreement. The car finance 
agreement was due to end in 2024, and was at an interest rate of 10%. The personal loan 
would run until 2023 and was charged at 5%. The combined monthly payment to both loans 
was around £534.
Freedom Finance recommended a loan to Mr K. However, following the valuation of this 
property this loan was no longer available, so Freedom Finance recommended a new loan 
with a lender Ill call E. This loan was for £22,500 over a term of 20 years on a repayment 
basis, with an interest rate of 12.5% fixed for the first five years and a monthly payment of 
£282.77. Included in the loan amount were a broker fee of £1,350 and a lender fee of £995. 
The secured loan therefore reduced Mr Ks monthly outgoings by around £250 per month.
In 2022 Mr K complained. Hed experienced problems maintaining the monthly payments on 
the loan. While this was because his circumstances had changed following the loss of his 
job, he said hed come to realise the loan was never appropriate for him. He said he wasnt 
in the right frame of mind at the time he took it out because of personal circumstances. He 
said that hed exchanged loans which would have been paid off within a few years for a 
much more expensive loan over 20 years  and which was secured on his property.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said that the loan wasnt 
suitable for Mr K or his circumstances, and that Freedom Finance should have carried out 
further checks before making the recommendation  had it done so, it wouldnt have advised 
Mr K to take the loan out.
Freedom Finance didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Having 
considered matters afresh, I agreed with our investigator that the loan wasnt suitable and 
shouldnt have been recommended. But my reasons for saying that, and the redress I 
proposed, were different. So I issued a provisional decision to invite any further comment or 
evidence from the parties. Ill set out my provisional findings and the replies to it below and 
then make a final decision.
My provisional decision
I said:
Alongside this case, Ive also considered Mr Ks separate complaint about E and its 
decision to lend to him. Having considered both complaints together gives me a good 
overview of all the circumstances that led to Mr K taking out this loan.
The purpose of this loan was debt consolidation, and Freedom Finance was advising 
Mr K. That means it was required to make sure that the loan was suitable for his 
needs and circumstances. And, as a debt consolidation loan, it was also required to 
take account of the additional costs associated with increasing the repayment period; 
the appropriateness of securing unsecured debt; and  if a customer has payment 
difficulties  whether it would be appropriate to come to an arrangement with 
unsecured creditors instead of taking an unsecured loan.
Theres no evidence Mr K was experiencing payment difficulties at the time of taking 
this loan (though he did later, that couldnt have been foreseen at the time and 
resulted from a change of circumstances). But consolidating his unsecured debts did 
make them significantly more expensive.
Freedom Finance doesnt appear to have obtained full details of the personal loan or 
car finance loan it recommended consolidating. So I dont know the specific interest 
rates. But it appears that both were lower than the 12% charged on the secured loan 
 Freedom Finance estimated 5% for the car finance loan  and both had terms of 
less than five years remaining, compared to a twenty year secured loan.
This made consolidation significantly more expensive overall. By increasing the 
interest rate, and quadrupling the term, Mr K would pay much more to repay these 
debts had he not consolidated them.
Theres no doubt that Mr K did want to consolidate his debts, and that was his 
purpose in asking for this loan. He wanted to reduce his monthly payments, and the 
loan achieved that.
But making a suitable recommendation isnt just a question of giving a customer what 
they want; it involves an objective assessment of their needs and circumstances and 
 taking into account the overriding objective of treating them fairly and taking 
account of their best interests  making a recommendation of the most suitable 
product to meet those needs and circumstances. This includes advising a customer 
not to proceed if there is no suitable loan available. And the assessment of suitability 
should be based on facts disclosed by the customer and any other relevant facts the 
firm is or should reasonably be aware of. The firm may rely on information provided 
by the customer unless, on a common sense view, there is reason to doubt it.
Mr K says that he was going through a difficult time when he took out the loan. In 
2017 hed had a car accident, and it had come to light in January 2019 that hed 
suffered a minor brain injury as a result. Also in 2019 he and his partner separated. 
Mr K believes that because of the stress of his situation, combined with the effect of 
the medication he was taking, he wasnt making rational long term decisions. Theres 
no suggestion that Mr K formally lacked mental capacity at this time, and I dont have 
medical evidence suggesting an impairment to his decision making. But nonetheless 
Ive borne in mind what hes said about the difficulties he faced at the time and the 
impact of that on him.
I dont think Freedom Finance was aware of Mr Ks difficult circumstances at the time 
 though there were opportunities during its conversations with him when it could 
have explored this but chose not to, Mr K also suggested any problems hed had 
were now behind him. So while Mr Ks circumstances are relevant as part of the 
background, I dont think it would be reasonable to say they are something Freedom 
Finance ought to have taken into account when giving advice.
Freedom Finance was aware of Mr Ks financial circumstances. Hed taken out both the personal loan and the car finance in April 2019, about six months before this 
advice. Hed also re-mortgaged, increasing his borrowing, around the same time.
Freedom Finance also had Mr Ks bank statement for his current account. As our 
investigator pointed out, this showed that Mr Ks expenditure substantially exceeded 
his income. Mr K transferred money into his current account to cover the additional 
expenditure  but Freedom Finance didnt question this, or ask to see his other bank 
statements to verify this. I think it ought reasonably, taking a common sense view, to 
have questioned this level of expenditure and how it was being supported  but it 
didnt do that.
Our investigator did do so, and found that Mr K had substantial savings at the time of 
this loan  savings which were rather larger than both this loan and the debts it 
consolidated. The savings appeared to have come from a combination of a 
compensation payment from Mr Ks accident and the borrowing hed taken out earlier 
in the year. Had Freedom Finance looked further into Mr Ks circumstances  as I 
think it should  it would have discovered this.
It was aware that Mr K did have some savings, but doesnt appear to have asked him 
how much. Mr K said he was intending to use the savings for home improvements. 
But Freedom Finance didnt discuss this in any more detail with him, or question 
whether it was appropriate to consolidate his debts when he could have repaid them, 
in full or in part, from his savings. I would have expected Freedom Finance at least to 
have made further enquiries about the level of his savings and his home 
improvement plans to have considered whether taking this loan was suitable for his 
circumstances. The existence of these substantial savings also leads me to question 
whether a relatively small reduction in his outgoings really was necessary for Mr K.
When Freedom Finance told Mr K about the loan it had arranged, including the 
interest rate and the overall cost of credit over the 20 year term, Mr K was concerned 
about how expensive this loan would be. Freedom Finance reassured him on the 
basis that he wouldnt keep the loan for the full term in practice. I dont think that was 
appropriate.
It appears this was because Mr K had suggested he intended to sell his car to reduce 
the balance shortly after taking the loan out. This would have been possible, since 
the loan terms didnt restrict overpayments. But if that was his plan, to my mind that 
ought to have led Freedom Finance to question whether he needed to take this loan 
out in the first place. If Mr K intended to repay his car finance with this loan and also 
sell his car to reduce the balance of this loan, I find it difficult to understand why 
Freedom Finance didnt question why he needed this borrowing  since he could 
have sold the car and paid off the car finance directly without the need to take out 
this loan first. But there wasnt any discussion of that. 
Im not persuaded that at the time he took out this loan, and based on his 
circumstances at the time, it was suitable for Mr K. Consolidating these loans 
substantially increased the overall cost of repayment, as well as securing them to Mr 
Ks home. Im not persuaded that, at the time of the advice, there was a pressing 
need for Mr K to consolidate his debts or that the savings  judged against his wider 
circumstances  outweighed the costs and risks of doing so. And I dont think 
Freedom Finance explored the alternatives to consolidation before concluding that 
this was the most suitable way forward.
Im therefore intending to uphold this complaint.Putting things right
Putting things right is not straightforward. My starting point is that I put Mr K back in 
the position he would have been in had unsuitable advice not been given. However, 
thats not possible in this case  suitable advice would have been not to proceed, 
which means Mr K would have retained the unsecured lending and not taken the 
secured loan. I cannot recreate that position.
Mr Ks financial loss from the unsuitable advice is the difference in the cost of 
repaying the debts consolidated compared to the cost had they not been 
consolidated. However, its not possible to easily calculate that either. Thats partly 
because Freedom Finance didnt take full details of the unsecured loans. But its 
mainly because the secured loan has 15 years left to run, and will shortly move to a 
variable interest rate. Its not possible to predict what might happen to interest rates 
in the future, and using the future variable rate as it is now, or as it was in 2019 when 
the loan was taken out, risks leaving Mr K under- or over-compensated depending on 
future interest rate movements.
I also bear in mind that one of the reasons this loan was unsuitable was because it 
secured previously unsecured debts to Mr Ks property  putting his home at risk if 
things went wrong. Since taking out this loan, things did in fact go wrong. Mr K no 
longer has his savings, hes lost his job, and hes entered into an individual voluntary 
arrangement (IVA).
As a secured debt, this loan sits outside the IVA. Hes in arrears on the loan, and his 
property is at risk. Had Mr K retained the unsecured debts, his property would not be 
at risk and the debts (if they hadnt been paid off from his then savings or the sale of 
his car) would have been included in the IVA.
None of this could have been predicted at the time Mr K took advice from Freedom 
Finance. However, the consequences of securing unsecured debt are one factor the 
rules of mortgage regulation required Freedom Finance to take into account  
because of a risk that a situation like this would arise. While Freedom Finance could 
not have predicted exactly what would happen to Mr K in the years since, the 
increased risks of securing debt were something it ought to have been aware of  
and, in this case, those risks have come to pass. 
The secured loan was taken out in around October 2019. At the time, the personal 
loan and car loan had less than five years to run. So if they had not been 
consolidated they would either have been paid off by now, or included in Mr Ks IVA. 
Either way, he would no longer be subject to them.
Taking into account everything Ive said, I think the fairest approach to putting things 
right in this case is for Freedom Finance to put Mr K in that position by repaying the 
current outstanding balance of his secured loan to the lender.
I recognise this isnt ideal. Mr K has benefitted from the consolidation by reduced 
monthly payments, at least for the period he was making them. So theres a risk this 
approach over-compensates him. In recognition of that, I dont intend to award further 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. And the alternatives, as Ive set out 
above, also carry risks that Mr K will be over-compensated or under-compensated. I 
dont think there is any way of awarding redress that exactly compensates Mr K for 
his losses, which are essentially unquantifiable, or that exactly replicates what, 
properly advised, he would have done instead.My remit requires me to award what I consider to be fair compensation. Where its 
not possible to exactly calculate a loss, that includes doing the best I can in the 
circumstances. Im satisfied my proposed redress is fair in all the circumstances of 
this case.
Mr K accepted my provisional decision. But Freedom Finance didnt. It said:
There were no indicators that Mr K was vulnerable during its contact with him. Ive 
said he didnt lack capacity at the time. So its not appropriate for me to take his 
circumstances at the time into account.
Mr Ks financial situation since he took the loan out  in particular the IVA  is not 
something Freedom Finance could have predicted. It made him aware of the risks of 
securing debt over his property, and had no control over Mr Ks actions after taking 
out the loan. The secured loan reduced his payments and therefore provided a 
solution to his situation at the time. He benefitted from a reduction in his outgoings for 
four years. 
If the debts had not been secured, Mr K would have had more equity in his property 
and so an IVA might not have been an option at all. 
Mr K could not have sold his car as it was subject to a hire purchase agreement, so 
the finance would need to be cleared before the car could be sold. 
Freedom Finance was aware Mr K had savings, but he intended to use them for 
home improvements  which he wouldnt have been able to do had he used the 
funds to repay his debts. 
I have suggested that secured finance can never be suitable. Freedom Finance does 
not agree and says it is for the customer to consider the risks. 
Freedom Finance did not reassure Mr K that he wouldnt keep the loan for the full 
term, it merely presented him with his options. 
This was a suitable recommendation which was appropriate for Mr Ks needs and 
circumstances. Mr K is responsible for his subsequent financial difficulties, and it is 
unfair to require Freedom Finance to pay for that. 
Even if I were to uphold the complaint, my proposed redress would not be 
appropriate and over-compensates Mr K. Mr K borrowed £22,500 and has paid 
approximately £13,500  had he made the same repayments to the unconsolidated 
debt, he would still have a balance of around £9,000 left. That should be taken into 
account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes considering the further points Freedom Finance has made. But having done so 
I havent changed my mind. Ill deal with the further points in the order they were made.
I found that Freedom Finance couldnt reasonably have been aware of Mr Ks 
circumstances at the time it gave advice. I havent upheld the complaint on that 
basis. His circumstances are relevant as part of the factual background, but I havent found that the loan was unsuitable on this basis.
That Mr K would enter into an IVA at the specific time he did wouldnt have been 
something Freedom Finance could predict at the time of the advice. But while that 
specific outcome might not have been predicted, the consequences of securing 
previously unsecured debt more generally are predictable. The rules of mortgage 
regulation specifically require advisers to take into account the appropriateness of 
securing unsecured debt when giving advice. Its not enough to say that Mr K was 
made aware of the risks in general terms; Freedom Finance ought to have 
considered whether doing so was appropriate for Mr K in his specific situation before 
making a recommendation. It didnt do that. 
Had it done so, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, it ought fairly to 
have concluded that securing Mr Ks debt, in his circumstances as they were at the 
time of the advice and as Freedom Finance knew or ought to have discovered them 
to be, wasnt appropriate or necessary. He had substantial savings and had other 
means of addressing the unsecured debts rather than securing them over his 
property.
While it couldnt have been foreseeable that Mr K would incur further debt and end 
up in an IVA when he did, it is a foreseeable risk that secured debt  unlike 
unsecured debt  is excluded from most debt management strategies. Securing debt 
unnecessarily therefore foreseeably creates a risk that should things go wrong in the 
future the borrowers options for dealing with the debt are more limited and they risk 
losing their property. 
It's not enough to say that Freedom Finance informed Mr K of the risks of securing 
his debts to his property. As the regulated adviser, it should have considered whether 
it was appropriate for Mr K to take that risk. In this case, it didnt do so, with the result 
that when he later experienced financial difficulties these debts were still outstanding 
and could not be included in Mr Ks IVA. 
As to whether Mr K might or might not have been able to take an IVA had he not 
consolidated these debts, that cant be known. Its equally possible that had he not 
consolidated them they might have been largely or entirely paid off by the time he 
entered an IVA. The point here is not what specific options Mr K might have had four 
years later, it is that by recommending that he consolidate previously unsecured debt 
into a secured loan, Freedom Finance exposed Mr K to additional risk without 
considering whether that was suitable.
A hire purchase agreement can be terminated at any time. Theres a cost to doing 
that, depending on how long the agreement has been outstanding. But it might still 
have been more advisable for Mr K to consider terminating the agreement and 
coming to an arrangement with the provider for the repayment of any outstanding 
sums  or using his savings to repay the agreement  rather than securing the debt 
over his property over a 20 year term. The rules of mortgage regulation require an 
adviser to consider whether it is appropriate to secure a previously unsecured loan. 
While I wouldnt expect Freedom Finance to give Mr K detailed advice on managing 
his unsecured debt, I would expect it to consider whether it was more appropriate to 
secure it over his property than the alternatives. 
Freedom Finance didnt enquire into the extent of Mr Ks savings or discuss his plans 
for them. And it didnt consider whether it was suitable for Mr K to consolidate 
unsecured debt when he had considerably more than those debts in savings.Im not persuaded that Freedom Finance was merely presenting Mr K with a range of 
options. I think Mr K was concerned about the total amount he would have to repay 
over a much longer term than his existing debts, and was persuaded that he didnt 
need to worry about that because he wouldnt keep the loan for the full term. This 
was presented as a definite strategy. I dont think it was appropriate  this was at 
best speculative, but was used to persuade Mr K he didnt need to worry about the 
overall cost of this borrowing.
I have not found that secured borrowing can never be appropriate, even in cases of 
debt consolidation. My findings are limited to whether Freedom Finance made a 
suitable recommendation and acted fairly and reasonably in the specific 
circumstances of this individual case.
I agree that Freedom Finance is not responsible for Mr Ks future financial difficulties. 
It is responsible for recommending this loan and no more. But it is foreseeable, and 
something that should be taken into account, that securing previously unsecured 
debt carries a range of extra risks  one of which came to pass in this case. Im not 
persuaded that Mr K had a need to take out this loan and consolidate his unsecured 
debt, and I consider that Freedom Finance is responsible for the consequences 
which followed from its unsuitable recommendation.
I explained in my provisional decision my reasons for proposing the redress I did. I 
dont think there is a straightforward way of putting matters right in this case. Ive 
considered what Freedom Finance says. But I dont think the amount Mr K has paid 
to the secured loan is the right measure of what position he would have been in but 
for this recommendation. The terms of the consolidated loans were much shorter, 
and would have come to an end by now. I think its more likely than not that had the 
debts not been consolidated Mr K would either have paid them off  or, when his 
later financial difficulties arose, he would have included them in his IVA. Either way, 
he would no longer be subject to those debts and so putting him in that position is, in 
my view, the fairest way to resolve this complaint. In recognition of the risk that this 
may involve an element of over-compensation, I dont intend to make a separate 
award for distress and inconvenience. As I said in my provisional decision, there is 
no straightforward way of putting things right, and I think this is the fairest of the 
available options in the particular circumstances of this individual case. 
For all those reasons, and the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Freedom Finance Limited to clear 
the outstanding balance of Mr Ks secured loan. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman