DRN-3570395
The complaint
Mr H complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to make reasonable 
attempts to contact him before defaulting his loan account. 
What happened
Mr H says he resides in the USA and maintains a bank account and loan with Nationwide. 
Mr H says all his correspondence from Nationwide is sent to his mothers address in the UK, 
who forwards this to him, but during the Covid pandemic she moved in with another relative 
and was unable to do that. Mr H says hed provided Nationwide previously with his US 
phone details and it had agreed it would be able to contact him on that number. In July 2020 
and August 2020 Mr H failed to make payments to his loan account but says he never 
received any emails or telephone calls to his US telephone number from Nationwide, other 
than default notices and arrears letters sent to his mothers address, who was no longer at 
home. 
Mr H says although there were some messages left on his UK telephone number these were 
unclear and he had naturally assumed these were spam. Mr H says Nationwide havent 
been truthful when it said it hadnt agreed to contact him on his US phone number or had no 
record of it. Mr H feels Nationwide have acted unfairly here and wants it to clear any adverse 
entries on his credit file, take back the loan from the debt collection agency and resume the 
existing monthly loan payments. 
Nationwide says it was unable to hold a US telephone number as a point of contact given 
the time differences and guidance from the communications regulator. Nationwide say it took 
reasonable steps to advise Mr H of the arrears and default of his loan account, and it 
remained his responsibility to ensure his monthly loan payments were paid on time, in line 
with the terms and conditions of the loan agreement he entered into. Nationwide says it 
accepts an advisor informed Mr H his complaint could be answered by email, when that 
wasnt the case and paid him £50 for this misinformation. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information, but she didnt uphold the complaint. 
The investigator says there was no evidence to support Mr Hs view that Nationwide held his 
US telephone details and had agreed it could be used to contact him going forward. The 
investigator says Nationwide did make attempts to contact Mr H and left messages on his 
UK telephone number and sent the arrears notices and a default notice to the UK Address 
he had provided them. The investigator says it remained Mr Hs responsibility to ensure his 
monthly loan payments were made on time and as he hadnt, Nationwide were entitled to 
issue the default notice when it did. The investigator felt Nationwide acted fairly when it 
registered the default with the credit reference agencies and passed the loan account to a 
debt collection agency. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr H to learn his loan account with 
Nationwide had been defaulted, whilst living overseas and having restricted access to his UK 
correspondence. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Nationwide acted unreasonably or could 
have done more before it defaulted Mr Hs loan account, placed it with debt collection agents 
and registered a default marker on his credit file.
The first thing to say is I have to take into account the fact this happened during the Covid 
pandemic, which affected both businesses and customers alike. 
Mr Hs complaint centres around whether or not Nationwide made reasonable attempts to 
contact him before it took the actions it did in defaulting his loan and marking his credit file as 
a result. Mr H is insistent that after he moved to the USA, he had provided Nationwide with 
his US telephone number and at the time it was agreed they could use that number as a 
point of contact. 
Mr H has advised this service his correspondence from Nationwide was sent to his mothers 
address in the UK and she would then pass this onto him. However, when the Covid 
pandemic took hold, his mother moved to a relatives house many miles away and so he 
wasnt getting any post from that address during that time. Mr H says Nationwide had his 
email address and US contact telephone number and if it had sent arrears notices and a 
default, it should have tried to contact him by these methods instead, but it never did. 
Although Mr H says messages were left on his UK telephone number which he could 
access, these were unclear and sounded very much like spam - so he ignored them.  
Mr H says Nationwide arent being honest about the fact he provided them with his US 
telephone number and its previous agreement that it would be able to use this to contact him 
in the future. Mr H says he has received marketing emails from Nationwide while in the US 
so cant understand why it couldnt have used that method to contact him about his loan 
account arrears.
In summary Mr H feels Nationwide havent done enough to contact him, before it issued the 
default notice on his loan account, placing it with a debt collection agency and registering 
this with the credit reference agencies, damaging his credit file.
Nationwide says it is unable to use an overseas telephone number as a contact point given 
the time difference issues (eight hours behind) and guidance from the regulator, partly to 
protect consumers. Nationwide make the point it remains Mr Hs responsibility to make his 
loan payment on time and he didnt. Nationwide says it correctly sent the arrears and default 
notice by post to the UK address it held on file provided to them by Mr H and have a 
responsibility to register accurate information to the relevant credit reference agencies. 
I understand the points both parties make here and when coming to a full and impartial 
decision I can only consider the facts and evidence provided to me, whilst considering the 
impact Covid had on both Nationwide and Mr H. From what I can see theres no evidence to support Mr H had agreed with Nationwide they 
would use his US telephone number to contact him even if it held it or not. What is important 
is if Mr H says he was also affected by the Covid pandemic as he says, then it would have 
been his responsibility to have let Nationwide know that, as otherwise its not clear how it 
could have known this. Its also fair to say Nationwide have provided evidence to show 
formal arrears notices and a subsequent notice of default were sent to the address in the UK 
Mr H had provided them and so I cant say it has made an error here, as I would expect such 
notification to be sent by way of a formal written notice by way of a  letter and not by text, or 
email, given their importance.
Mr H says he did retrieve voice mail messages from his UK phone number from Nationwide, 
but they were unclear, and he had assumed these were spam. While I can understand he 
may have thought that, I cant hold Nationwide responsible for him taking that view and 
importantly not checking with them to establish why it may have called him.
Additionally here, Mr H knew his mother wasnt living at the address he received his usual 
correspondence and given that, I would have expected Mr H to have made alternative 
arrangements to ensure his financial correspondence was sent to him directly, and not solely 
rely on Nationwide to attempt to call him with an eight hour time difference, during a global 
pandemic, even if it held the US phone number. Afterall this was his loan account debt and 
while Mr H may not agree, it remains his responsibility to ensure his financial matters, 
including his contractual loan payments, are properly managed and if he couldnt - to have 
let Nationwide know that. 
Having said all of that, where I do have an issue is why Nationwide took the decision to 
default Mr H and register this with the credit agencies, when he was only two months in 
arrears. I say this because in normal circumstances, I wouldnt expect businesses like 
Nationwide to issue or register a default until a minimum of three contractual monthly 
payments had been missed and they werent here. Bearing in mind this was during the 
unprecedented Covid pandemic I would have thought this was even more reason to show a 
little more forbearance, given the impact a registered default would have on Mr Hs credit 
file. Afterall, Mr H did make the following two months payments on time before Nationwide 
defaulted him and transferred the loan to a debt collection agency, so its fair to assume Mr 
H may have been able to have met the two missed payments if asked to do so.
So while accepting here Mr H was responsible for ensuring his monthly loan payments were 
kept up to date and that Nationwide werent to know any correspondence it had sent wasnt 
being forwarded to him, I do feel it shouldnt have registered a default after only two missed 
contractual monthly loan payments, given the reasons I have already explained. 
With that in mind, I propose Nationwide remove the default marker on Mr Hs credit file and 
simply leave in place the two missed monthly payment markers for July 2020 and August 
2020. Following that, both Nationwide and Mr H should discuss the resumption of the 
existing monthly loan payments going forward, if that is not affordable the debt should 
remain with the debt collection agency with an appropriate payment plan put in place. 
While Nationwide will be disappointed with my provisional decision, I feel this is a fair 
outcome here. 
Mr H accepted my provisional decision, but despite two extra weeks of time extensions 
granted to Nationwide I have heard nothing further from them, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr H and Nationwide initially until 16 June 2022 and then a further extension 
until 29 June 2022 to accept or reject my provisional decision. 
Mr H has accepted my provisional decision but Nationwide havent provided any further 
comments for me to consider and so I see no need to change or add to my original 
provisional decision, and so my final decision remains the same. 
Putting things right
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to remove the default marker on Mr Hs credit file and 
simply leave in place the two missed monthly payment markers for July 2020 and August 
2020. Following that, both Nationwide Building Society and Mr H should discuss the 
resumption of the existing monthly loan payments going forward, if that is not affordable the 
debt should remain with the debt collection agency with an appropriate payment plan put in 
place.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to remove the default marker on Mr Hs credit file and 
simply leave in place the two missed monthly payment markers for July 2020 and August 
2020. Following that, both Nationwide Building Society and Mr H should discuss the 
resumption of the existing monthly loan payments going forward, if that is not affordable the 
debt should remain with the debt collection agency with an appropriate payment plan put in 
place.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman