DRN-4162210
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M have complained about a mortgage they hold with Mortgage Express.
The mortgage was originally taken out with a different lender, and it was transferred to 
Mortgage Express in February 2006. Ill refer to the previous lender as G.
Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint can be summarised under the following broad complaint points:
They didnt apply for a new interest rate product in 2007. The paperwork about that is 
fraudulent.
Their original mortgage had flexible features  such as the ability to take a six-month 
payment holiday  but they later werent allowed to take a payment holiday. I 
understand Mrs M and Mr M have now withdrawn this complaint point as upon reviewing 
the original mortgage offer they saw the mortgage didnt offer a payment holiday feature. 
The full implications of the Covid-19 payment deferral werent made clear, and had they 
understood that interest would be charged on interest then they wouldnt have taken the 
deferrals.
The level of customer service in phone calls in 2021.
They feel the balance of their mortgage is wrong and that the interest has been 
incorrectly calculated.
They say Mortgage Express didnt reduce their payments down to the contractual 
minimum amount when asked to do so in 2021.
What happened
In December 2005 Mrs M and Mr M took out this mortgage with lender G through a broker. 
Mrs M and Mr M borrowed £99,000 (plus £545 fees) on a repayment basis over a 25-year 
term. The mortgage offer explains the rate would be fixed at 5.25% until 31 December 2007, 
after which it would move to Gs Standard Variable Rate (SVR) which at the time the 
mortgage offer was issued on 8 November 2005 stood at 6.49%.
In February 2006 the mortgage transferred from G to Mortgage Express.
Earlier this month I issued a decision about our jurisdiction. In that I said we cant consider 
the complaint point They didnt apply for a new interest rate product in 2007. The paperwork 
about that is fraudulent as that complaint hadnt been made within the time limits allowed 
under our rules.
As our investigator had already set out their thoughts on the remainder of the complaint, and 
Mrs M and Mr M hadnt agreed, the case has now been returned to me to consider.
I understand Mrs M and Mr M wanted more time to provide any further information. Our 
investigator set out his thoughts on most of this complaint in June 2022, with follow up 
correspondence sent in September 2022 to deal with a complaint point about the interest 
rate. Were now 11 months on from the initial assessment, and 8 months from the 
correspondence about the interest rate. We cant keep cases in abeyance indefinitely and 
so, as the final deadline has passed, Ill now decide this complaint based on the information 
already held on file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mrs M and Mr M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments 
to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and 
businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party, and we look at things 
independently without taking sides. 
Its the nature of what we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the 
other. We look at what happened and whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, 
regulations, good industry practice and the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage, 
the business acted fairly and reasonably.
Mrs M and Mr M are unhappy about the decision I reached about our jurisdiction to consider 
this complaint. There has to be some finality in our process and it wouldnt be appropriate for 
us to continue to correspond about the same matters once an ombudsman has issued a 
decision on them. Ive reviewed my jurisdiction decision and Im satisfied that Ive not erred 
in how Ive applied our rules, and so there will be no further mention in this decision about 
our jurisdiction.
The Covid-19 payment deferral
Mrs M and Mr M have said that the full implications of the Covid-19 payment deferral werent 
made clear, and had they understood that interest would be charged on interest then they 
wouldnt have taken the deferrals.
Mrs M and Mr M have also said that the letters they received werent the same as the ones 
Mortgage Express has provided to us as part of this complaint; they say the additional 
information pages werent sent to them.
Mrs M and Mr M were sent four separate letters about the payment deferrals; that is, two 
granting the payment deferrals, and two stating the payment deferrals were coming to an 
end. Mortgage lenders would have been issuing quite a few of these letters each day, and 
they would have been created via a template, rather than produced each time individually. 
The template would automatically have included the additional pages, and it seems unlikely 
 on balance  that all Mrs M and Mr Ms letters were missing those pages.
Letters were issued on 22 October 2020 and 22 January 2021 granting the payment 
deferrals. Those said Interest will continue to be charged to your account during the 
payment holiday and this will increase the outstanding balance on which we calculate 
interest and your monthly payments over the remaining term. Because of this you will pay 
more interest overall.The letters also explained that the effect of that could be mitigated by partial (or full, if 
possible) payments being made.
Further letters were issued on 13 January 2021 and 12 April 2021 to explain that the 
payment deferrals were coming to an end. Those letters said Please read our enclosed 
information sheet Additional support at the end of your payment holiday They also 
explained the following:
As you have a Repayment (Capital and Interest) mortgage, your monthly payment will be 
increased to pay the suspended payments and the increased interest over the remaining 
term of your mortgage.
Changing your monthly payments this way will result in you paying more interest over the 
term of your account. This will increase the total amount you have to pay when compared 
to an alternative way of paying these amounts earlier such as in a single lump sum.
Mrs M and Mr M have said that while the term compound interest was used, they didnt 
understand that they would be paying interest upon interest, only that they would be paying 
more interest. 
It isnt as simple as saying Mortgage Express didnt say Mrs M and Mr M would be paying 
interest upon interest. The monthly payments are set on the assumption that all payments 
going forward are made in full and on time; that is, the lender takes the outstanding balance 
and then, taking into account the remaining term and the interest rate, calculates what the 
monthly payment needs to be. Any payment that is missed  such as through a Covid-19 
payment deferral  means the balance is higher than it should be at that point. As interest is 
charged on the entire balance owing at that point in time, interest is charged on the higher 
balance.
I understand Mrs M and Mr M feel the balance wasnt higher than it should have been as 
they say the Covid-19 payment deferral amounts were less than the overpayments theyd 
already made. Whilst the balance was lower than it was originally projected to be at that 
point due to the overpayments, those overpayments had already been taken into account 
when the contractual monthly payment (CMP) was last amended before the Covid-19 
payment deferrals; that is, the CMP had been set lower as the balance was lower than it 
would have been at that point if the overpayments hadnt been made. By taking the Covid-19 
payment deferrals, the balance then increased and so the CMP would need to be revised up 
to cover that. 
Mrs M and Mr M could see the impact on this from the 13 January 2021 payment deferral 
end letter which set out their new CMP going forwards (£453.28) versus their CMP before 
the deferral (£449.46), a differential of £3.82 a month.
The second payment deferral meant the figures changed as by then another three months of 
payment deferrals had been taken. The letter of 12 April 2021 sets the figures out as 
£467.75 going forward, against the previous CMP that we already know to be £449.46, a 
revised differential of £18.29 a month.
Mrs M and Mr M wouldnt have needed any specific financial knowledge or awareness to 
calculate that payment differential so they could have seen what impact the first payment 
deferral had before arranging the second.
Bearing in mind everything Mrs M and Mr M have told us about their financial situation, and 
their request for payment holidays (which would have had exactly the same impact as the Covid-19 payment deferrals, in that interest would then be charged on a higher balance) I 
dont think any further information about the impact of the payment deferrals would have 
altered their decision to make use of the option.
Having considered everything, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
The phone calls
Ive listened very carefully to the various calls from 2021. Mrs M has said that some of the 
call handlers were rude, had raised their voices and talked over her. Shes also said she was 
given incorrect information, and a call handler deliberately and spitefully transferred her call 
to the wrong department.
In the January 2021 call Mrs M seems distracted by something happening at home, at times 
carrying out two conversations at once, which led to some confusion. Having listened to that 
call in its entirety Im satisfied the call handler was clear that it was a Covid-19 payment 
deferral that was being arranged, albeit in the call Mrs M indicated she wasnt clear on that 
point. Im also satisfied that, contrary to what has been said by Mrs M and Mr M as part of 
this complaint, the call handler did not say the balance was only £30,000, that it should be 
written off, or that the payments would be reduced to the minimum amount once the 
payment deferral ended. She also didnt say what Mrs M later quoted her as saying her 
exact words were just call us back and well get that arranged for you in respect of a 
further six-month payment holiday. There was no mention of any of those things, with the 
only thing discussed and arranged being a further three-month Covid-19 payment deferral. 
Theres no indication there were any other calls about this as the call starts with the payment 
deferral being requested and ends with it being arranged; theres no mention of any earlier 
call, and there was no need for any follow up call.
In the first call of 30 April Mrs M was unable to pass the security questions as she didnt 
know either her contractual monthly payment or the outstanding balance. I understand that 
Mrs M was upset that the call handler could not continue the call, nor could she pass her 
through to a manager, but that isnt unreasonable on the part of the business. Mortgage 
Express (whether that be a call handler or their manager) would be unable to discuss 
anything about the account without security being passed, and it wouldnt be appropriate to 
give hints, or more attempts to pass security in that call, otherwise it would leave the account 
open to potential fraud if the caller hadnt in fact been Mrs M. The outstanding balance and 
contractual monthly payment were both contained within a letter that had been sent to Mrs M 
and Mr M on 12 April 2021, about the Covid-19 payment deferral coming to an end.
Whilst Mrs M was unhappy that the call handler ended the call referring to her in a later call 
as a little madam  the call was going round in circles. Mrs M hadnt been able to pass 
security, and was clearly getting more upset, so it doesnt seem inappropriate that the call 
handler ended the call.
I note Mrs M was unhappy that the call handler in the first call of 30 April didnt give her the 
address of the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  with Mrs M saying it was 
unlawful not to do so. Mrs M mentioned this in the second call of 30 April, then adding that 
the first call handler and this second call handler also didnt understand the complaints 
process, as she should have been told a complaint needed to be made to the business first, 
rather than to the regulator.
But Mrs M hadnt asked what the complaint process was, she just asked for the regulators 
details. The first call handler told her it was the FCA, but that she didnt have the address as 
it was a separate company. Mrs M has said that she previously worked in financial services, 
and it seems she was already aware who the regulator is. In the second call Mrs M said that she could find the details herself, but that wasnt the point as the regulators address and 
contact number should be ingrained in their brains.
I wouldnt expect a call handler for a business to know the FCAs address and phone 
number without needing to look them up, they would have no reason to need that 
information generally in their day-to-day job. If they needed the information they could look it 
up, just as Mrs M has said she could. In any event, the FCA wouldnt be the right body for a 
complaint as whilst they regulate financial services, we at the Financial Ombudsman Service 
deal with individual complaints like this. But as Mrs M hadnt asked for information about the 
complaints process, just for the regulators details, Im satisfied she wasnt given the wrong 
information. Whilst the call handler could have looked up the information for Mrs M and read 
it out to her, that - in itself - wouldnt be a reason to uphold this part of the complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs M was given incorrect information about whether or not she had 
the right to take a six-month payment holiday under her mortgage contract. She also was 
given incorrect information about how she could apply for that.
Mrs M and Mr M were never eligible for a six-month payment holiday (which is a separate 
matter to the six-months of Covid-19 payment deferrals that they took) as that wasnt a 
feature of their mortgage contract. It is clear they were given wrong information when they 
were told on 30 April that they could apply for a separate payment holiday.
There were three calls on 21 June. The first call didnt go well and whilst Mrs M has 
complained about how the call handler treated her, Im satisfied the call handler remained 
calm, polite and professional. The call ended with Mrs M repeatedly raising her voice to the 
call handler and refusing to let her speak, and whilst Mrs M feels the call handler deliberately 
placed her in the wrong queue it is just as likely  on balance - it was an accident. In any 
event the second call handler apologised for the mistake, as did Mortgage Express in its final 
response letter, saying it had provided feedback to the agent.
In the third call the call handler had to warn Mrs M about her conduct on the call, and that 
seems a reasonable action having listened to the call in its entirety. The call handler was 
trying to establish what Mrs M wanted, to ensure no further mistakes were made, and Im 
satisfied she did that in a polite and professional manner. Unfortunately, in that call Mrs M 
was again incorrectly told that she could have a six-month payment holiday (backdated to 
May) and was also incorrectly told that an application for that could be made over the phone 
(rather than needing to be in writing). 
The request was also taken on 21 June for the monthly payments to be reduced to the 
contractual minimum amount; that is, for no further overpayments to be collected.
Further misinformation was given on 28 June when Mortgage Express called Mrs M and said 
that the payment holiday request had to be made in writing, rather than over the phone 
(instead of saying that Mrs M and Mr M werent eligible for one, as their mortgage didnt offer 
that feature). That call ended with Mrs M swearing twice and hanging up. 
Mrs M called back later that day to raise a complaint about being told she had to request the 
payment holiday in writing, and to also ask about whether her payments had been reduced 
back to the contractual minimum amount. The call handler raised the complaint about the 
call earlier that day and confirmed the request to reduce the payment was being actioned at 
that time and a letter would be sent out once that had been calculated. The call handler said 
they couldnt confirm what the July payment would be as it was still being actioned and, 
unhappy with that Mrs M called her obstructive and said she was unhappy about her 
attitude. Mrs M also said the call handler had been offensive in relation to Mrs Ms questions about how Mortgage Express deals with customers with disabilities. The call ended with an 
expletive from Mrs M, and her hanging up.
The final call on 28 June was Mrs M calling to log a complaint about everything that had 
happened that day, and that the stopping of the overpayments still hadnt been actioned.
Mrs M was clearly given incorrect information at times about whether or not the mortgage 
account allowed for payment holidays, and also how those had to be applied for. That 
misinformation was corrected in the complaint response letter of 23 June which explained 
that Mrs M and Mr Ms mortgage didnt have flexible features, such as the ability to take 
payment holidays (outside of the Covid-19 payment deferral process), and that if the 
mortgage did have those features any requests had to be made in writing.
It is also unfortunate that Mrs M was transferred to an incorrect department on 21 June, and 
that she was unable to pass the security questions on 30 April, but I dont think either of 
those were malicious or deliberate on the part of Mortgage Express.
More than one agent told Mrs M that the call quality was poor, and that there seemed to be a 
time delay, which led to the parties accidentally speaking over each other at times. I can also 
hear that at times Mrs M was speaking to Mr M at the same time, and it wasnt always clear 
when she was speaking and listening to the call handler, and when she was speaking to her 
husband.
It is clear that some of the calls didnt go as well as they could have done, but Im satisfied 
that in the round the Mortgage Express call handlers generally remained calm, polite and 
professional in their handling of the calls. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Mortgage Express offer totalling £225 for the 
failings identified in this area is fair and reasonable.
The balance and interest rate
The November 2007 mortgage offer is for a fixed rate until 30 November 2009, and 
thereafter it would be charged at the SVR.
The SVR isnt a Bank of England base rate (base rate) tracker product. That can be seen 
by the original lenders mortgage conditions booklet which clearly differentiates between the 
two:
Bank of England base rate means the repo rate decided by the Monetary Policy 
Committee of the Bank of England from time to time.
Standard variable rate means our standard variable rate of interest which can be changed 
by us at any time before and after completion under condition 3 of section 3.
Section 3 then sets out more information about;
the SVR in sub-section 3, and 
the base rate in sub-section 5, 
again showing they are different interest rate products.
Mrs M and Mr M have based their calculations on an interest rate which tracked base rate 
but, as Ive explained, that isnt the product they had. Their mortgage moved to the SVR on 1 December 2009; it didnt move to a base rate tracker product. If their mortgage was 
intended to move to a base rate tracker product from that date, then this would have been 
specifically stated in the mortgage offer, saying Bank of England Base Rate not variable 
rate.
Whilst I cant consider the product change in 2007 for the reasons Ive already explained, Id 
like to reassure Mrs M and Mr M that even if their mortgage hadnt moved to a new product 
at that time, then theyd still be on the same SVR now. This can be seen by comparing:
the letter that was issued on 3 December 2007 about the original mortgage product 
which said their 2005 fixed rate was coming to an end and that their mortgage would 
move to the SVR of 7.75% (in line with the 2005 contract), and
the 2007 mortgage offer for the new mortgage product which said the SVR at that time 
was 7.75%. 
The SVR was higher in 2007 than in 2005 due to the fact the cost of funding had changed in 
that time. Just as an example to show the change in market conditions, and not to be taken 
to indicate this was a base rate tracker product, the base rate increased by roughly the same 
differential in that period; the SVR increased from 6.49% to 7.75%, and the base rate 
increased from 4.50% to 5.75%. Both the 2005 product and the 2007 product reverted to the 
SVR; neither would have reverted to being a base rate tracker.
This is a repayment mortgage. This means that if all the contractual payments are made in 
full and on time, the mortgage would be repaid in full at the end of the agreed term. The 
nature of a repayment mortgage means that in the early years a much higher percentage of 
the contractual payment goes to paying the interest; thats because the balance is higher at 
that point, therefore more interest is due. In later years, that reverses and most of the 
contractual payment goes towards reducing the balance; thats because the balance is lower 
at that point, so less interest is due. That is completely normal, and as I would expect to see.
Having reviewed the transaction history I can see the £8,000 lump sum payment Mrs M and 
Mr M made in June 2011, and I see that less interest was charged immediately following 
that. This is show by the interest being charged at around £360 a month in the lead up to the 
lump sum payment being made, and then at around £325 a month afterwards. Having 
considered what Ive seen, Im satisfied Mortgage Express correctly credited the lump sum 
to the mortgage account, and that it immediately adjusted the interest charged.
The original lenders mortgage conditions booklet explains that for any part repayment of 
£1,000 or more (ie the £8,000 lump sum) the interest is recalculated immediately upon 
receipt. Whereas, it says, for part repayments of less than that (ie the monthly overpayments 
Mrs M and Mr M were making) then you will be given credit at the latest at the end of the 
interest period in which the repayment is received by us. This means that interest is charged 
on the full amount until then. Interest period is defined as means a period of time which 
we use to calculate interest payments. This period is set by us. The current interest period 
runs from the first day of each month until and including the last day of each month.
From this we can see that the original terms and conditions of the account were that the 
interest would be calculated monthly, and any overpayments (of under £1,000) would be 
taken into account in that monthly calculation.
A letter dated 13 July 2011 confirming that the £8,000 lump sum repayment had been 
credited to the account confirmed the interest rate at that time was 4.84% and that the 
contractual monthly payment would be £532.39. It confirmed the monthly payment would be left at £588.98 at Mrs M and Mr Ms request, with the difference (of around £55) being a 
voluntary overpayment.
A further letter dated 9 November 2017 confirmed a rate change back to 4.84% (so the 
same interest rate as in 2011), and that said the contractual monthly payment was much 
lower at £490.31. Had the monthly overpayments not been made and taken into account, 
then the contractual monthly payment in November 2017 would have reverted to being 
around £532, rather than £490.
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to provide an auditing service or carry 
out a forensic analysis of mortgage accounts. Ive looked at the transaction history and 
theres nothing on there that appears unusual or incorrect. Of course, its open to Mrs M and 
Mr M to instruct an independent suitably qualified professional to audit their account. But that 
would have to be at their expense. But as things stand, Im not persuaded that Mortgage 
Express has mis-managed this account, or that the outstanding balance is incorrect.
Having considered everything, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
The payments werent reduced to the contractual minimum amount
Mrs M and Mr M have said that in the call of 21 January 2021, when the second Covid-19 
payment deferral was set up, Mrs M requested their monthly payment be reduced to the 
contractual minimum payment once the payment deferral ended.
As Ive explained earlier in this decision, Ive listened to the 2021 calls and that wasnt a 
request Mrs M made in the January 2021 call. She mentioned, in that call, that theyd been 
overpaying for a number of years, but she didnt at any time request that the overpayments 
be stopped. The first mention of stopping the overpayments Ive heard was in a call on 
21 June 2021. In that June call Mrs M was clear that shes referring to the 21 January 2021 
call when she said she requested it, and even quoted what she thought shed said. But 
having listened to the 21 January 2021 call very carefully, she didnt say that. 
As the first request to stop the overpayments was made on 21 June 2021, and that was 
actioned on 29 June I dont think Mortgage Express did anything wrong here. Whilst the 
reduction wasnt in place in time for the July payment, I cant hold Mortgage Express liable 
for that as the payment was due on 1 July and it was simply too late to amend the direct 
debit. The lower payment was then correctly collected from August 2021.
Having considered everything, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Summary
Having considered everything, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M and Mr M, I dont uphold 
the main thrust of their complaint. The only part Im upholding relates to some parts of the 
2021 phone calls as Ive detailed above, and for that Im satisfied Mortgage Express offer to 
pay a total of £225 (from the final response letters of 23 June 2021 and 18 August 2021) is 
fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Mortgage Express has already made an offer to pay £225 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Mortgage Express should pay 
that £225 (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023. Julia Meadows
Ombudsman