DRN-3480381
The complaint
Mr L complains Ageas Insurance Limited have unfairly recorded a split 50 / 50 liability 
against him after a claim was made on his motor policy. Mr Ls also unhappy with the 
increase in premiums, and reduction in his no claims discount (NCD) as a result of this.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
In February 2019 Mr L was involved in an accident where he says another party reversed 
into his car. Mr L says liability at this point was decided in his favour  as the other party 
admitted they were at fault  so he received full payment for his car. He said he experienced 
neck and back injuries as a result of the accident, resulting in treatment. He submitted a 
claim for this, which came to £3,000. The other insurer didnt reply, so the solicitors acting for 
Mr Ls personal injury claim took the matter to court.
On the day of the hearing 19 November 2020, and before itd been heard, Mr L says the 
solicitors told him if they offered to settle for half the £3,000 treatment costs the other party 
was likely to accept. The offer was made, and the other party did accept. Mr L says he 
wasnt told by the solicitors this would mean the claim would be recorded as a split 50 / 50 
liability.
Mr L says on 17 May 2021 he received a letter from Ageas saying because of the accident 
his premiums would be increased. He said he had two policies at the time, and not expecting 
his premiums to be increased he contacted Ageas to find out why. He says Ageas told him it 
was because the claim had been recorded as a 50 / 50 liability now. He spoke to the 
solicitors, who said the personal injury claim shouldnt affect the final claim because the 
other party had admitted liability. Despite relaying this to Ageas, they wouldnt change their 
mind  Mr L was unhappy with the recording of the claim, the premium increase, and that his 
NCD would be affected as he said it was protected.
Ageas said they contacted the solicitors who said the claim was submitted to the courts and 
a split 50 / 50 liability was decided. They said the claim can only go to court once due to it 
being one collision, and as injury takes precedence over any other losses the solicitors had 
full control over the liability decision. Ageas said they agreed with the other insurer their 
losses would be left out of proceedings, but the outcome of the hearing would determine 
how the damage claim for Mr Ls car would be settled.
Ageas said they werent kept up to date on Mr Ls injury claim despite multiple requests. 
Because of that, they werent aware the claim was settled prior to the hearing. If theyd been 
told this, they potentially could have asked the solicitors to stop their case, and issue 
proceedings for damages instead and attempt a non-fault recovery. 
Regarding the registering of the claim as fault, they said insurers will mark a claim as fault 
when someone is 1% or higher at fault for a collision. And the NCD is a discount off the 
percentage of Mr Ls insurance and doesnt guarantee the premium wont increase year on 
year. Ageas added Mr L should check his policy terms, because the percentage hed receive 
had remained the same, despite the claim being registered as a fault. 
Overall, Ageas didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint  they recommended he speak to his 
solicitors.
Mr L contacted us, saying he didnt think it was fair how Ageas had recorded the settlement. 
One of our Investigators looked into things, and overall felt Ageas had handled things in the 
right way. Mr L didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On reviewing the information provided, Ive not seen anything to prove the other insurer had 
accepted they were at fault for the claim  as Mr L has suggested. The last evidence from 
Ageas shows it was still being disputed.
At the point it was being disputed, Ageas appointed their own solicitors to pursue the 
question of liability. Ill call them P. It seems Mr Ls broker also appointed solicitors to pursue 
his personal injury costs. Ill call those solicitors M.
I need to make it clear I can only require Ageas to take further action if Im satisfied theyve 
made a mistake and / or have in some way treated Mr L unfairly. If they havent, then I wont 
be telling Ageas to do anything.
The liability decision
I think its important to explain I cant decide liability, only a court can do that. But, here the 
issue in dispute is whether Ageas have acted fairly after M agreed a 50 / 50 split liability.
Its Ageas choice as to how they decide liability, and they can use commercial reasons for 
doing so. Ive thought about their point  which is in effect once liability has been agreed in a 
certain way, itd be very difficult for that to be disputed.
I think this is a reasonable position to take. In essence, Mr L is saying Ageas have to argue 
M settled the claim wrongly  but M were acting on his behalf for the personal injury element 
of the claim. M, acting on Mr Ls behalf, agreed the 50 / 50 split.
Ive seen Mr L has said Ageas should dispute this because M have told him the personal 
injury claim was settled on a monetary basis. I arranged for us to ask Mr L if he had any 
evidence from M which explained this in more detail  but Mr L said hed destroyed this as 
the claim had been settled.
Mr L has also explained the accident was settled in his favour because the other party 
agreed full liability  and he was paid out for his car. My understanding is Mr L is saying it 
was the other driver who said they were at fault  but their insurance company werent 
replying to Ageas. This is why Ageas appointed P, because the other insurer wasnt replying, 
so Ageas / P were going to need to take the matter to court to decide liability. But, before 
that could happen, as Ive set out above M settled the personal injury matter. So, regardless 
of whether the other driver was accepting liability, the other drivers insurer seemingly wasnt 
accepting liability as they werent replying, meaning it was still in dispute.
In addition, Mr L getting paid out for his car doesnt mean he cant be found at fault. Deciding 
whether a fault claim is registered comes down to whether any costs are incurred that cant be claimed back from another party. Here, Ageas have incurred costs they cant claim back 
from the other insurer as a result of the liability decision agreed by M  so, theyve incurred 
costs, meaning Mr L will have a fault claim registered against him.
In any event, for the reasons Ive set out above, M settled liability on a 50 / 50 basis, and I 
dont think Ageas have treated him unfairly by recording his claim on the same basis. If Mr L 
wishes to take the matter further, he may wish to contact M directly to discuss any concerns 
he has.
The increase in premiums
More recently, Mr L contacted us to let us know Ageas had been in touch and provided a 
refund of some of the premiums  he told us he believes hes still due a refund on his main 
policy.
This appears to supersede his initial concerns about the calculation of premiums, although 
he still remains concerned about that  his focus now is more on whether a further refund is 
due.
This is a new issue, which then wouldnt form part of this complaint. If Mr L has complained 
to Ageas, then we can set up a new complaint solely to focus on this for him  if hes not, 
then hell need to do so in order to give them a chance to reply to his concerns.
The NCD being reduced
Mr L said hes not happy his NCD is being reduced, because hes got it protected  and links 
this to part of the reason his premiums have increased. Ageas have said the registering of a 
fault claim wont have any impact on Mr Ls discount  and it doesnt mean his premium cant 
increase.
Ive looked at the policy terms for the NCD protection, these say amongst other things:
No claims discount protection does not protect the overall price of your insurance policy. 
The price of your insurance policy may increase following an accident even if you were not 
at fault.
Insurers such as Ageas will use a large number of factors to decide the risk someone 
presents them. Theyll then use this risk calculation to determine the amount of premium 
theyre prepared to offer. One of the factors insurers will use, is whether someone has had a 
claim or not  they may also take into account whether the claim was or wasnt a fault claim. 
But, as the policy terms say here, even a non-fault claim could increase someones 
premium.
So, in Mr Ls case it would appear his premiums have increased as a result of the accident. 
This doesnt mean the NCD hasnt been applied  but it does mean the percentage discount 
of the NCD is being applied to a larger starting premium than previously.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Ageas have applied Mr Ls NCD incorrectly, so I dont 
uphold this element of his complaint.
My provisional decision
Ageas replied and said they accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything 
further to add.
Mr L replied and made the following points:The accident he was involved in was concluded as a non-fault accident due to the 
other party admitting liability, which is why he was compensated the full value of his 
car and his excess for the damage sustained.
The personal injury aspect was settled as a monetary settlement and his solicitors 
said this would have no bearing on the final conclusion of liability.
His solicitors said deciding liability as 50 / 50 was incorrect.
The decision to register this claim as a 50 / 50 fault claim had a significant impact on 
his premiums.
Hes now having to pay more for his insurance premiums, than he was awarded for 
his personal injury claim.
This is also having an impact on his wifes insurance premiums, as they have a joint 
policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Mr L has said about the settlement of the claim  but I cant agree.
The pay out of an insurance claim is dependent on several factors, but it isnt dependent on 
liability. Mr L could have an accident hes 100% at fault for, and hed still (subject to the 
remaining policy terms) be paid out the market value of his car.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I didnt see any evidence that liability wasnt in 
question any further. While the other driver may have told Mr L personally they were at fault, 
the other drivers insurer needed to have accepted that. Ive not seen anything to show they 
did accept their policyholder was at fault  as they never replied to Ageas which is why the 
matter was going to court.
I understand what Mr L has been told by his solicitors, but when asked Mr L hasnt been able 
to provide anything to show this is what they said. This doesnt mean I disbelieve Mr L, but 
does mean Ive only got what hes told us, and what Ageas have told us, to decide the case 
on. And, as Ive explained above, as liability had already been decided by M, I think itd have 
been difficult for Ageas to argue anything differently.
So, regarding the decision to record liability as they have, I still dont find Ageas have done 
anything wrong.
Ive noted Mr Ls comments about the premiums. As I dont think Ageas did anything wrong 
by recording liability as they have it follows I cant say they should be refunding any 
premiums as a result of the way liability has been recorded.
Im sorry to hear of the challenges Mr L and his wife are facing with their premiums. In 
respect of any increase as a result of the liability decision I cant agree theyve done anything 
wrong. But, Mr L and his wife are free to raise a new complaint if they believe the premiums 
have been calculated incorrectly for any other reason.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman