DRN-3974411
The complaint
Miss S complains that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Miss S had one loan from Loans 2 Go in July 2021 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 23 Jul 2021 £350 18m £71.94 23 Jan 2023 1 Aug 2022
Miss S says that the loan was unaffordable to her as she had a poor credit record at the 
time. She adds that the interest rate was excessive as she was paying more in interest over 
18 months than the same loan would have cost over 12 months with a payday lender. 
Miss S says she had to borrow again to make the repayments.
Loans 2 Go says it carried out a credit check, verified Miss Ss income and calculated her 
disposable income. It says the checks showed the repayments were affordable to her, but, 
as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to reduce the interest on the loan by 15%.
Miss S did not accept this offer and referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She found that Miss S had 
significant existing credit commitments and that there were indications she may already be 
struggling financially and could not afford a further loan. Our investigator said that Loans 2 
Go should refund any interest and charges on the loan and that adverse information should 
be removed from her credit file.
Loans 2 Go responded to say, in summary, that although Miss S had a high level of credit 
commitments, it did not agree that the repayments would be unsustainable based on what it 
could see on her credit file. It added that Miss S had made all her repayments on time and 
settled the loan early.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Loans 2 Go lent to Miss S. 
Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Ss case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Ss loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
When Miss S applied for the loan, Ive seen evidence to show Loans 2 Go asked about her 
financial circumstances, checked her credit file and verified her income. However, Im not 
satisfied that these checks went far enough because:
The loan was for a period of 18 months and Loans 2 Go needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Although Miss Ss accounts were up to date, the credit check showed:
oFour active credit cards with a combined balance of over £6,000  two were 
over their limit, with recent arrears, and one was in a payment arrangement;
o£1,000 on three mail order accounts  one of which was over its limit;
oAn overdraft approaching £1,300;
oA loan with monthly repayments of £143;
Loans 2 Gos affordability calculation estimated a monthly disposable income of less 
than £160 after the new loan repayment;
Miss S was already committed to paying over one third of her verified income on 
credit repayments  this rose to over 40% with the new loan.
As Miss S was already committing a significant amount of her income to credit repayments, 
her credit file indicated that she may already be struggling financially, and Loans 2 Go didnt 
find she had a large amount of disposable income each month, I think Loans 2 Go should 
have ensured it fully understood her financial situation. As such, I consider it should have 
gathered more information about her regular expenditure each month.
Ive asked Miss S for a copy of her bank statements from the relevant time period, as a 
reasonable proxy for what proportionate checks may have shown. These show:
Miss Ss income averaged around £1,700 per month;
I can see there is a standing order set up which shows Miss Ss share of the rent was 
£300, as shed declared to Loans 2 Go;
Monthly account fees are about £40;
Regular payments for phone costs, insurance and a subscription totalled about £160;
As well as the four credit cards and the loan that Loans 2 Go could see in her credit 
file, Miss S made payments towards a short-term loan and running accounts of over 
£250 in the month prior to the loan;
Over £200 per month was spent on Buy Now Pay Later credit;
In summary, Miss S was already committed to spending around £900  over half her income 
- on credit repayments. Given the rent, fees and direct debits account for a further £500 per 
month, by the time Miss Ss food, utilities and travel costs are included, it is clear she could 
not afford to repay a further loan.
Im satisfied proportional checks would also have indicated Miss S was already struggling to 
manage her money: as well as the information Loans 2 Go could see on her credit file, her 
bank statements show returned direct debits and the use of short-term lenders.I acknowledge Loans 2 Go says Miss S made all her payments on time and settled the 
account early, but I note that she also took a short-term loan soon after making her first 
repayment and only settled the account after receiving a refund from another lender.
So, based on all the evidence, I find Loans 2 Go did not make a fair lending decision for the 
loan, although I cant see it acted unfairly in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should: 
Add up the total amount of money Miss S received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss S made should be deducted from this amount.
 If this results in Miss S having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
 If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt 
to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss S;
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ss credit file regarding the 
loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman