DRN-1318916
 
The complaint
 Mr C complained that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
 Mr C took out 3 Sunny loans during October and November 2018. Mr C repaid the first loan 
 but he hasnt yet (so far as I am aware) repaid loans 2 and 3. 
Heres a table showing more information:
loan date taken date repaid instalmentsloan 
amount
1 26/10/2018 01/11/2018 6x £169.93 £600
2 01/11/2018 Outstanding 6x £196.75 £600
3 07/11/2018 Outstanding 6 x £47.26 £150
 
Mr C said that Sunny had failed to carry out necessary affordability and credit file checks. He 
told us hed been unable to work due to depression and he wasnt just affected financially  
what happened had also had serious consequences for his mental health. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr C and Sunny told us about these loans. 
Overall, he thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Cs 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for Sunny 
to ask Mr C for the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator didn't think that the number of loans Mr C had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Sunny shouldve alerted 
Sunny to think he was having money problems. So he didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Sunny provided Mr C with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Sunny needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Sunny was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr C before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Sunny says it agreed to Mr Cs applications after carrying out creditworthiness and 
affordability checks. And it relied on information Mr C provided about his monthly income 
and expenditure as well as information obtained from credit reference agencies. 
It says the information it had about Mr C showed that repaying the loans shouldnt become 
difficult for him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
I dont think Sunny was wrong to lend Mr C loan 1. As this was his first loan with Sunny, at 
this early stage, Mr C didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Sunny to any underlying money problems. The information Sunny had gathered about 
Mr Cs finances suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr C provided or the other information 
Sunny had recorded, which meant that Sunny shouldve taken steps to check the information 
Mr C had declared. So I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
I can see that Mr C took out the second loan the same day he paid loan 1  and he 
borrowed the same amount again. But I dont think that was enough on its own to make 
Sunny think that it shouldnt have kept lending to Mr C. 
Sunny asked Mr C to update the information he provided about his finances each time he 
applied for a new loan and the loan repayments still looked to be affordable for Mr C. There 
was no material change in his financial circumstances as far as I can see. 
So I don't think there was anything to make Sunny think that Mr C would find it hard to 
manage the loan repayments on loan 2. And I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint about loan 2.
loan 3Ive thought carefully about the fact that Mr C applied for loan 3 within a week of starting 
loan 2  and before hed even had to make any repayments towards loan 2. 
Ive considered whether this mightve been an early warning sign that shouldve made Sunny 
think carefully about why Mr C needed to borrow again so soon after paying loan 1 and 
taking out loan 2. 
But I dont think this this alone was enough to make Sunny think that Mr C was becoming 
increasingly indebted or struggling with being over stretched financially. I think its fair to take 
into account that loan 3 was for significantly less money than Mr C had borrowed previously. 
And even allowing for the fact that hed now have to pay both loans, the overall amount of 
the combined monthly repayments still looked like it shouldve been comfortably affordable 
for Mr C.
Although he later had problems making the monthly repayments, at that stage, when Sunny 
provided loan 3, Mr C hadnt shown any signs that he was finding it hard to pay for his 
borrowing and the figures hed declared, and the information Sunny had collected, seem to 
support Sunnys lending decision  loan 3 appears to have been affordable for Mr C on the 
available information. 
Looked at overall, thinking about the amount of the total monthly repayments he had to 
make for each of his loans, the questions Sunny asked Mr C and keeping in mind that these 
were Mr Cs first three loans, I dont think it was unreasonable for Sunny to rely on the level 
of information Mr C was providing. And I've seen nothing in the information it collected that 
shouldve made Sunny think these loans werent sustainably affordable for Mr C. 
Im sorry that Mr C found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality it looks 
likely that Mr Cs financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other information Sunny obtained. 
Mr C feels that Sunny didn't do all the checks he thinks it shouldve done before agreeing to 
lend to him. But its reasonable to expect that Sunny couldve only decided Mr Cs lending 
applications based on the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the 
lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Sunny to ask Mr C 
to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told 
them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. So I dont think Sunny did 
anything wrong when it made its lending decision based on the information it had at the time.
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that Sunny did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr C. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr C and Im sorry to have to do that  
but I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
I take this opportunity to remind Sunny (or any third party if the debt is sold on) that it should 
discuss payment options with Mr C and treat him fairly and sympathetically if he needs 
further time to pay what he still owes.
And if Mr C would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman