DRN-2648536
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which looks to 
have been taken out in 1998. Mrs F says Lloyds Bank PLC, trading at the time as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester, mis-sold her PPI.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Lloyds throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint a while ago and told Mrs F, through her 
representative, they didnt think we should uphold it. 
Mrs Fs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. When considering 
what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example decisions that set out in detail how these relevant considerations 
may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Fs. I havent set out that detailed information here, but Ive 
taken into account all relevant considerations in making a decision about Mrs Fs complaint. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
There is no specific allegation here that Mrs F didnt agree to the PPI policy at the time. And 
I think the evidence shows Mrs F gave her consent and that the insurance was something 
she wanted to have with her mortgage. This is substantiated by the facts Ive seen. It looks, 
for example, as if the PPI was added to mortgage borrowing Mrs F already had in place. In 
December 1998 she was rearranging her financial affairs and I see she filled out and signed 
a specific PPI application form and she also completed and signed a direct debit mandate to 
have the monthly PPI premiums taken from her bank account. 
Given these circumstances, I think this strongly demonstrates that Mrs F knew the PPI cover 
was optional, and she set it up in a way that reflected her needs of the time. I think she 
consented to the PPI although I accept, she genuinely may not remember all this now.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs F as part of an advised sale. It therefore had a duty to 
check that the PPI was right for her. Ive considered this with care and Im satisfied the 
evidence about Mrs Fs circumstances of the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She appears to have been eligible for the PPI and 
although she may have had some generous sick pay with her job, this doesnt necessarily 
mean the PPI wasnt suitable, Im afraid. It could have paid out a monthly sum for up to a 
year if claimed on and this would be in addition to any other means she already had. 
So I think the PPI was suitable and it being recommended to Mrs F wasnt unreasonable.  
Also, there was nothing obvious about Mrs Fs occupation which would have made it difficult 
for her to make a successful claim on the policy, in my view. She hasnt told us about any 
pre-existing medical conditions that could have affected her ability to claim and there were 
no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. 
Its certainly possible the information Lloyds gave to Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. However, in my view, this doesnt alter my overall decision. I think she 
chose to take the PPI out and it looks like she explicitly wanted this type of cover. It wasnt 
too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
probably given at the point of sale. It also looks like the PPI was affordable for her, so it 
seems like it would have been useful if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mrs F would have declined the cover, even if Lloyds had done more or explained things 
better.
Mrs Fs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
However, Mrs Fs representative failed to say how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of her individual complaint, just that they apply to all PPI complaints. 
I have nevertheless thought very carefully about all these things and how they might apply in 
Mrs Fs case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this complaint. Im very sorry to disappoint 
Mrs F, but this means Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint, so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman