DRN-4066355
The complaint
Mr S, represented by his solicitors, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) treated him 
unfairly by overcharging him on his mortgage. 
What happened
In 2007, Mr S took out a mortgage with HSBC. The offer confirmed an initial fixed interest 
rate of 5.79% would apply to the mortgage until 30 June 2010, after which, HSBCs standard 
variable rate (SVR) would apply. Mr S mortgage reverted to HSBCs SVR on 1 July 2010 
and remained on that rate until he took out a further fixed interest rate in October 2016. Mr S 
redeemed his mortgage in October 2018. 
On 17 September 2020, Mr S representative sent a letter of complaint to HSBC on Mr S 
behalf. The letter set out that Mr S sought to claim damages in relation to being overcharged 
interest on his outstanding mortgage balance due to the unlawful interest rates and any 
variations in the interest rates charged by HSBC. 
The letter set out that Mr S considers that the mortgage offer issued in June 2007 contained 
unfair terms pursuant to the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 
(UTCCR). Elaborating on this point, Mr S representative argued:
Section four of the offer letter is unfair as the term within did not explain what was 
meant by the Standard Variable Rate, and Mr S was misled into believing that this 
rate would vary in accordance with the Bank of England Base Rate, rather than at 
HSBCs discretion.
Mr S does not accept that the mortgage general terms and conditions, which defined 
the Standard Variable Rate were incorporated into the contract.
It is unfair to expect a consumer, such as Mr S, to pore over the small print to 
understand the meaning of a key term like the interest rate. 
The meaning of the Standard Variable Rate and particularly the fact that HSBC 
could vary it at its discretion, should have been set out in the mortgage offer. The 
failure to do so, renders the term within section four of the mortgage offer unfair for 
the purposes of UTCCR such that HSBC is unable to rely on it. 
A term included within a contract allowing a lender to vary interest rates entirely at its 
own discretion without providing grounds to do so is unfair. 
The term lacks transparency and Mr S did not have an effective right to termination 
due to the presence of an Early Repayment Charge (ERC), as well as other costs 
associated with discharging his mortgage and switching to another lender. 
Section 15 of The Supply of Goods and Services Act should be deemed to apply in 
this case. This allows for the consideration of a reasonable rate being applied to 
Mr S mortgage balance rather than HSBCs SVR. 
HSBCs actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCA Handbook whereby a 
firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And a 
breach of MCOB 11.5(1)(b) which requires a firm to treat customers fairly by 
assessing, before deciding to vary a regulated mortgage contract or home purchase 
plan; whether the consumer will be able to repay the sums borrowed and interest.
Mr S seeks to claim the difference between the amount of interest he paid on his 
mortgage and the amount he would have paid had it been subject to what he deems 
to be a reasonable rate. 
HSBC responded to the letter of complaint on 21 November 2020, disagreeing with Mr S 
allegations. In summary, HSBC argued:
The mortgage documentation used plain and intelligible language which made it clear 
that a variable rate of interest would apply after the initial fixed interest period. It also 
set out warnings that payments could fluctuate if there were changes in the interest 
rate. 
The descriptions of the interest rate set out in the mortgage offer are worded in 
accordance with the requirements of the MCOB rules. 
The mortgage terms and conditions form part of Mr S contract with HSBC. 
The ERC ceased to apply to the mortgage once the fixed rate came to an end. So, 
Mr S was able to repay the mortgage without incurring any charges under the terms 
of the mortgage contract.
It does not agree that the mortgage documentation suggests, implies or states that 
the Mr S mortgage would track base rate. 
It disagrees that the terms are unfair contract terms. It highlights that the terms 
require it to act reasonably and that this prevents any imbalance or risk of detriment 
to the consumer.
HSBC also set out that it thought Mr S had brought his complaint too late under DISP 
2.8.2(R). 
Mr S representative referred his complaint to our service on 3 December 2020. 
Our investigator issued an assessment not upholding the merits of Mr S complaint on 8 
March 2023. In summary he said:
The complaint point that, at the point of sale, Mr S was misled into believing the SVR 
would track base rate had not been brought in time, under DISP 2.8.2(R). 
The complaint was raised on 17 September 2020, so the investigator concluded that 
a complaint about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years 
prior to this, had been raised in time. Which would be from 17 September 2014 
onward. So, he was satisfied that he could consider whether the sums charged from 
17 September 2014 onward were fair and reasonable. 
DISP 2.8.2(R) has two parts, the second providing for a scenario where the 
consumer seeks to bring a complaint more than six years after the event complained 
of. Specifying such a complaint must be brought within three years from the date the 
consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that they had 
cause for complaint. But the investigator thought Mr S ought reasonably to have 
been aware he had cause for complaint from October 2010 at the latest (given the 
margin between the base rate and HSBCs SVR had increased from 1.25% to 
3.44%). So, he didnt think this gave them any more time. In considering the fairness of the interest rate charged from 17 September 2014 
onward, he will need to take account of previous variations of the interest rate in 
order to determine whether the rate charged during the period he can look at is fair. 
He will also need to consider whether the variation clause is itself an unfair term as a 
matter of law. He concluded both of these things were part of all the circumstances 
of the case that he is required to consider under the DISP rules and are relevant to 
whether the interest charged from 17 September 2014 onward is fair and reasonable. 
HSBC was not required to set out all the terms and conditions of the mortgage 
contract in a single document. There are good reasons why general terms and 
conditions would be in a separate document to an individual consumers offer. 
The mortgage represented a substantial liability and a consumer ought reasonably to 
be treated as if they had read all the information provided with the mortgage offer, 
including the associated terms and conditions. 
Mr S mortgage contract did not commit to track the Bank of England base rate, he 
was made sufficiently aware of its terms and that HSBC has sought to charge 
interest in accordance with those terms. 
The investigator was not persuaded at a general level that the relevant terms satisfy 
the wider transparency requirements. While he thought they were easy to follow 
grammatically, the terms are broad and open to interpretation. He found the reasons 
for variation to be wider than reasonably necessary to achieve a legitimate purpose 
and that they do not explain to the consumer the method for determining the new 
price. 
In determining whether, at the time the contract was taken out, there were likely to be 
significant barriers for Mr S dissolving the contract, the investigator noted that HSBC 
was only able to rely on the variation terms when there was no ERC. So, Mr S would 
not have had to pay a charge to end his contract with HSBC should he have chosen 
to switch to another lender. The investigator added that he didnt think switching 
costs were a significant barrier to exit and instead were costs a borrower could incur 
if they ever sought to switch lender. 
He set out the need to consider what, if any, unfairness Mr S experienced because of 
mortgage payments based on changes to the interest rate. And the need to consider 
whether HSBC had exercised the terms fairly. 
He found SVRs to serve a legitimate purpose in permitting lenders to provide for 
future changes and allow borrowers flexibility.   
The investigator was not persuaded HSBC varied the rate unfairly. 
The investigator noted that while the SVR reduced between November 2008 and 
March 2009, the difference between the SVR and the Bank of England Base Rate 
increased. He set out that this was a time of significant change in the wider market as 
a result of the financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of businesses and 
was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates.  
HSBC told this service that each variation to the SVR was made because of a 
change in base rate. However, its cost of funds did not fall in line with base rate 
which impacted its decisions to vary the SVR. It has evidenced this and shown that it 
experienced an increase in risk across its mortgage book and had to maintain retail 
deposits in order to fund its mortgage book. HSBC has also told us it had to ensure it 
adhered to regulations regarding the levels of capital it held to minimise the risk of 
consumers defaulting on their mortgages. All combined, this meant HSBC decided 
not to pass on all of the base rate reductions in full to its consumers.   He noted that Mr S representative hadnt provided any evidence to suggest Mr S 
was unable to move to another lender or switch to a different HSBC product if he was 
unhappy with the changes it made to the SVR. He also found HSBCs SVR to be in 
line with market average. 
Overall, he didnt think there was anything to suggest that HSBC has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably, or that Mr S has overpaid interest. He also considered that the interest 
rate applied to Mr S mortgage over the term has remained generally in line with the 
SVRs of other similar lenders across the market. So, he did not consider the rate 
Mr S paid to have been an obvious outlier or excessive. 
Mr S representative responded to say it was disappointed in the outcome and asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman. In summary it said:
The investigators opinion does not provide any information that suggests objectively 
the cost of the money HSBC lent changed or was the primary reason behind its 
decision in varying the SVR. Instead, HSBC had given a number of reasons that 
impacted its decision not to pass on the full base rate savings, none of which are 
permitted by the terms and conditions.
It doesnt agree that changes to the rates a business pays its savers cannot be 
encapsulated by the permitted variation term of any change in the cost to us of the 
money we lend.
Taking into account its own profit and savers rates suggests HSBC has taken 
account of an irrelevant consideration when setting the SVR. If so, this would be a 
breach of its Braganza duty to exercise its discretion reasonably, taking into account 
relevant considerations and disregarding irrelevant considerations, in a manner that 
was not capricious or arbitrary and overall, in good faith. 
It is unclear how a lender can be acting fairly, or reasonably, when they relocate 
themselves as a mid-tier lender, rather than a low rate lender they advertised as, and 
operated as for many years, purely to address the needs of a book of customers that 
expressly excluded any mortgage holders to their detriment. 
It doesnt appear HSBC was responding to external factors which impacted its cost of 
funding for its mortgage book in the same way as other mainstream lenders. Instead, 
it seems it was driven by a desire to set the SVR at a level which increased its profits 
and achieve its ancillary objectives of maintaining savers and deterring new 
mortgagees. 
The investigator confirmed that he would pass the case to an ombudsman for a final 
decision  inviting both parties to provide any further comments or information they would 
like the ombudsman to consider by 5 April 2023. 
Neither party made any further representations. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally and as the deadline for the parties to 
respond has now passed, it is now appropriate for me to issue my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I am required by 
DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into account: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) (where appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr S. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help him to 
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
HSBC previously raised an objection to our service considering Mr S complaint, in short, it 
thought Mr S had brought his complaint too late under the DISP rules. It is unclear if HSBC 
maintains its objection on this point. So, for completeness, I have set out the parts of Mr S 
complaint that I consider to be in jurisdiction. 
The FCAs dispute resolution (DISP) handbook sets out the rules relating to the time limits 
within which a complaint needs to be made.  
In this case the relevant rule is DISP 2.8.2R. So far as is relevant, this rule says that where a 
business doesnt consent, we cant consider a complaint made: 
 more than six years from the date of the event being complained about; or (if later) 
 more than three years from when the consumer was aware, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware, of a cause to complain; 
unless the failure to comply with those time limits was as a result of exceptional 
circumstances. 
Mr S has complained about the level of interest hes been charged on his mortgage. Im 
satisfied that a complaint about any interest charged to the mortgage in the six years leading 
up to Mr S complaint has been made in time under the six year time limit. This complaint 
was made to HSBC on 17 September 2020. So, Im satisfied we can consider a complaint 
about the interest charged on the mortgage since 17 September 2014. The High Court 
endorsed this approach in a judgment handed down in 2022.
In order to consider Mr S complaint about the interest HSBC charged before that point Id 
need to be persuaded that the complaint had been made within three years of when he was 
aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of a cause to complain. But Im not 
persuaded it has been. 
Mr S has said he thought the SVR on this mortgage would track the Bank of England base 
rate. When Mr S initial fixed period ended and his mortgage moved onto HSBCs SVR, the 
difference between base rate and the SVR had notably increased from where it stood when he first took out the mortgage in October 2007. I think that Mr S ought reasonably to have 
been aware at that point that the margin between the rate he was being charged and the 
Bank of England base rate was higher than when he first took the mortgage out. However, 
Mr S didnt raise a complaint about this until much later  more than three years from that 
point. 
As a result, Im satisfied the complaint about the interest rates charged before September 
2014 has been made out of time. And for the same reasons, Im satisfied any complaint 
about how the information provided to Mr S at outset was misleading (in respect of how the 
mortgage would operate in terms of the movement of the SVR) would also be out of time. 
Ive not been provided with any information to suggest that the reason part of Mr S 
complaint was not brought in time was a result of exceptional circumstances. 
As a result, Im satisfied that our service only has the power to consider Mr S complaint 
about the interest hes been charged on the mortgage since 17 September 2014.
I will though need to take account of previous variations of the interest rate in order to 
determine whether the rate charged during the period I can look at is fair. But in the event I 
were to recommend any redress is due, I would only be able to award this for the period of 
time that is in scope of this complaint. 
Mr S representative has raised many individual complaint points both to HSBC directly and 
to this service. However, I consider the overall complaint to break down into two key points:
Mr S expected that his mortgage would track the Bank of England base rate once it 
reverted to the variable rate. As it did not do so, HSBC has treated him unfairly. 
Mr S has paid an unfairly high rate of interest compared to what he should have done 
from 17 September 2014 onwards because in varying the SVR HSBC (i) relied on an 
unfair term and/or (ii) did not vary the SVR for a reason allowed by the terms and 
conditions. 
I will deal with each point in turn. 
Did HSBCs actions cause Mr S to have an expectation that his mortgage would track the 
Bank of England Base Rate?
Mr S representative considers HSBCs actions to have given Mr S an expectation that his 
mortgage would track base rate. 
As I mentioned above, this part of Mr S complaint is out of time. 
To the extent that Mr S representative is suggesting that this is also a basis to complain 
about the charges that are in time, I disagree with its conclusions. 
The mortgage documentation is clear in that Mr S mortgage would revert to the SVR once 
his fixed interest period expired and that the SVR could go up as well as down. And I havent 
seen any evidence that persuades me that HSBC was obligated, contractually or otherwise, 
to have its SVR track Base Rate. 
I am aware Mr S representative argues that, as the mortgage general terms and conditions 
were not included in the mortgage offer letter, they should not form part of the mortgage 
contract. I disagree with this conclusion. HSBC was not obligated to set out all the terms and conditions governing its mortgages in 
one document. And while I appreciate this means Mr S would need to read more than one 
document to understand and appreciate the terms that governed his mortgage, given this 
was a substantial liability, secured on his principal asset, I think Mr S ought reasonably to be 
treated as if he had read all of the information provided. 
And Im not aware of any evidence that can properly be said to show that HSBC acted in a 
way where it committed to keep the margin between base rate and the SVR the same  the 
fact that this margin didnt substantially change over a period of time isnt sufficient to 
indicate that HSBC had agreed to give up its right as set out in the contract, and I think that 
in commercial terms this would have been an odd decision, given the extent to which funding 
costs can change. Finally, I am not aware of any principle of law that, on the facts of this 
case, would obviously commit HSBC to doing so.
So, it follows that I do not uphold this part of Mr S complaint. 
Are the terms allowing HSBC to vary the SVR unfair as a matter of law?
I have to consider whether from 17 September 2014 onwards Mr S paid an unfairly high rate 
of interest. While I acknowledge that Mr S paid the SVR set by HSBC, and that there is no 
evidence (and no complaint) that HSBC made any calculation errors in charging interest, I 
also think that there are other questions that are potentially relevant to whether the interest 
itself was fairly charged. 
One of those questions is whether the term allowing HSBC to vary the SVR is the sort of 
term the courts would consider to be unfair as a matter of law. The law on unfair terms is an 
important part of consumer protection measures and prevents businesses from taking 
advantage  whether consciously or otherwise  of their customers, who have limited 
bargaining power. If a variation made in reliance on an unfair term contributed to the rate 
charged from 17 September 2014 onwards, then that might be relevant to whether interest 
charged from September 2014 was fair.
To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to first set out the relevant terms 
themselves: 
Section 4 of the mortgage offer states:
We, HSBC Bank plc, are pleased to provide you with an offer document for an HSBC 
mortgage
You will be borrowing £77,000.00
The mortgage will be at a fixed rate of 5.79% until 30 June 2010
HSBCs standard variable rate, currently 6.75% applies after this fixed rate period 
ends for the remaining term of the mortgage. We call this the HSBC variable rate
Any changes to the HSBC variable rate will take effect immediately. We will give you 
notice of any change in your monthly payment.
The HSBC Mortgage Loan Terms and Conditions (November 2006 edition) set out:
5. Calculation and charging of interestWe will charge interest on the Mortgage Debt at the interest rate mentioned in the 
Agreement. If the interest rate mentioned is a variable rate, it may be varied for the reasons 
set out in Part B
Part B
Variable Rate Mortgages
This part applies whenever your mortgage is at a variable rate, except if your mortgage is a 
Tracker Rate Mortgage. 

2. We can change our variable rates in order to reasonably reflect the fact that any of the 
following have occurred or are about to occur, provided that we do not do so for any arbitrary 
or improper purpose:
any change in the Bank of England base rate;
any change in interest rates charged by other major banks or financial institutions in the 
UK mortgage market;
any change in the cost to us of the money we lend; 
any event which requires a change to the interest rate in order to comply with any rate 
guarantee given by us;
any change in the law, regulation or in codes of practice or the making of a 
recommendation, requirement or decision by any court, ombudsman, regulator or similar 
body;
any reorganisation of our business by it being acquired by or by our acquiring another 
bank or organisation (so that customers with similar categories of agreements can be 
treated in a similar way); 
any event beyond our control.
HSBC has told us it relied on the following when making variations to its SVR:
any change in the Bank of England base rate;
any change in interest rates charged by other major banks or financial institutions in the 
UK mortgage market;
any change in the cost to us of the money we lend; 
 One of the considerations that I am required to take into account is relevant law. I consider 
that the application of the UTCCRs to the relevant terms in this case falls into that category 
of relevant law. I have therefore considered whether I think that a court would have a 
reasonable basis to conclude that the relevant terms may be unfair.  
The relevant test as to whether a term is unfair is set out at Regulation 5(1), as follows:
A contractual term which has not been individually negotiated shall be regarded as 
unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations arising under the contract, to the detriment of the 
consumer.
Regulation 6 says:
(1)the unfairness of the contractual term shall be assessed, taking into account 
the nature of the goods and services for which the contract was concluded and by 
referring, at the time of conclusion of the contract, to all the circumstances attending 
the conclusion of the contract on which it is dependent
(2) In so far as it is in plain and intelligible language, the assessment of fairness of a 
term shall not relate:
(a) to the definition of the main subject matter of the contract, or 
(b) to the adequacy of the price or remuneration, as against the goods or 
services supplied in exchange. 
So, it is important to note, that I must consider whether the variation terms were unfair based 
on the situation when Mr S took the mortgage out. And whether the terms in question go to 
the main subject matter of the contract or the adequacy of the price/remuneration. 
Schedule 2 to the UTCCRs sets out a grey list of indicatively unfair terms and various factors 
relevant to assessing the fairness of a term. The grey list includes:
1. Terms which have the object and effect of  
(j) enabling the seller or supplier to alter the terms of the contract unilaterally without 
a valid reason which is specified in the contract
The grey list of indicatively unfair terms is subject to the qualifications to be found in in
paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 of the UTCCRs. For example, paragraph 2(b) of Schedule
2 of the UTCCRs identifies that the indication of unfairness under paragraph 1(j) is
without hindrance to terms under which a supplier of financial services reserves the
right to:
change a rate of interest payable without notice where there is a valid reason 
(provided the supplier informs the consumer at the earliest opportunity and the 
consumer is free to dissolve the contract immediately);
alter unilaterally the conditions of a contract of indeterminate duration (provided that 
he is required to inform the consumer with reasonable notice and that the consumer 
is free to dissolve the contract).
As a strict matter of law, if the relevant clauses in this case are unfair under the UTCCRs, 
they would not be binding on Mr S (Regulation 8 UTCCR). And HSBC would not have been 
permitted under the terms and conditions to vary the SVR in the way that it did.
In considering these matters, it is relevant to note that the Court of Justice of the European 
Union (CJEU), having identified that ultimately the fairness of a term was a matter for the 
national court to decide, has indicated what national courts should take into account when 
making that decision:in Invitel, (C-472/10), the court concluded that a price variation clause in a contract is 
not a core term. Identifying that a price variation clause was instead a term relating 
to a mechanism for amending the prices of the services provided to the consumer. 
in RWE, (C/92/11), the court emphasised that, for unilateral price variation clauses 
(falling within paragraphs 1(j) or 1(l)) to be fair, they must specify the reasons and 
methodology for the price variation so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis of 
clear, intelligible criteria, the alterations that may be made to those charges. In 
addition, the CJEU was concerned that the customer is provided with meaningful 
criteria by which they can verify, and if necessary, challenge, any proposed variation 
to the rate. The CJEU also placed importance on whether the right to exit a contract 
in the event of a unilateral price variation can practically be exercised by the 
consumer at the time, having regard to the circumstances of the market as it exists at 
the time.
in Kasler, (C-26/13), the CJEU identified that, when assessing the fairness of a 
unilateral variation clause  and the meaning of plain intelligible language, national 
courts ought to consider whether: a) the mechanism expressed in the reasons for the 
variation is transparent; such that b) it would enable a consumer to foresee and 
predict the economic consequences for him or her.
In Matei (C-143/13) the CJEU referred to the loan agreement needing to set out 
transparently the reasons for and the particularities of the mechanism for altering 
the interest rate and the relationship between that mechanism and the other terms 
relating to the lenders renumeration, so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis 
of clear, intelligible criteria, the economic consequences for him which derive from it. 
The leading UK judgement on the UTCCR is the 2015 Supreme Court case ParkingEye v 
Beavis. In this case the Court said that:
The test for establishing a significant imbalance (Regulation 5(1)) includes, but is not 
limited to, asking whether the terms of agreement deprive the consumer of an 
advantage which they would enjoy under national law in the absence of the 
contractual provision;
The question of whether a term is contrary to the requirements of good faith depends 
on an objective hypothetical negotiation, asking whether an informed consumer 
would have agreed to the term in question during individual contract negotiations. 
This should take into account a wider circumstantial review, such as the relationship 
with other relevant contractual terms; and 
Consideration should be given to the nature of the goods or services supplied, 
including the significance, purpose and effect of the term in question. 
FCA guidance (FG18/07) on unfair terms in consumer contracts is also of relevance. This 
paper sets out that The fairness assessment is a holistic assessment and these two 
elements may overlap in the way they apply to any particular set of facts and that the 
applicable law recognises the importance of striking a fair balance between the legitimate 
interests of both the supplier and consumer. The guidance also provides an overview of 
factors relevant to determining whether a variation term is fair. At paragraphs 66 and 67 the 
guidance states that firms should consider the consumers freedom to exit the contract if 
they do not accept the variation, and how they can actually do so. This should include the 
financial and practical barriers which may prevent them from doing so within any advance 
notice or reasonable timeframe. Application to Mr S complaint
Having considered the above, I am satisfied I need to address the following in deciding 
whether the variation clause was unfair: 
Whether the term is a core term 
Whether the term creates a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations 
to the consumers detriment contrary to the requirement of good faith.
The decision whether the term is unfair should be made in the light of what sort of contract is 
in issue and what the contract is about, as well as what the other terms say and all the 
circumstances that existed when the term was agreed. Assessing whether a term is unfair 
involves winding the clock back to the date the term was agreed, and then standing back to 
consider the term in its full context, both within the contract and in al the surrounding 
circumstances. 
- Is the relevant term a core term?
The terms in question relate to the mechanism for amending the price of the services 
provided, not the price itself. So, I am satisfied they are ancillary terms whose fairness can 
be assessed under the applicable fair terms legislation. 
- Do the terms create a significant imbalance contrary to the requirements of good 
faith?
As set out above, one of the considerations when determining if the terms create a 
significant imbalance is whether the terms of the agreement deprive the consumer of an 
advantage which they would enjoy under national law if the term was not there. 
I am not persuaded that the interest rate variation clause applicable to Mr S mortgage 
contract does this. At a general level, such clauses have a legitimate purpose and are 
common in financial services consumer contracts. Particularly those of long or indeterminate 
duration, such as mortgage agreements. A fair variation term can benefit both consumers 
and lenders. Providing flexibility and a wider choice to consumers and enabling firms to 
provide competitively priced products, knowing they can vary the interest rates they charge 
to reflect changes in circumstances, particularly in their own costs of funding... 1
A reversion rate also permits lenders to provide for future changes that justify increases in 
the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds and things such as changing regulatory 
requirements are by nature difficult to foresee. So, Im satisfied that, if the agreement itself 
didnt include a rate variation clause, its reasonable to assume that national law would 
provide a mechanism for allowing a lender to vary the rate for legitimate reasons. And I think 
the average consumer could reasonably be assumed to accept this and agree to it in 
hypothetical negotiations. 
In addition, when considering whether there was a significant barrier to exit, it is important to 
note that there was no ERC applicable to Mr S mortgage at the point it reverted to the SVR 
on 1 July 2010. So, if HSBC had exercised its rights as set by the variation term, and Mr S 
was unhappy with that decision, he was free under the contract to transfer his mortgage to 
another lender should he have wished without having to pay this charge. 
While Mr S representative has said that other costs impacted on Mr S ability to redeem his 
mortgage such as switching costs, Im not persuaded these are the sort of significant 
1 FCA Guidance (FG18/07 Paragraph 34)barriers that the CJEU and FCA had in mind when determining whether a variation clause is 
unfair. Mr S would incur these costs if ever he sought to switch lender. 
So, I dont think the variation terms would be considered unfair simply because at a general 
level there would be a cost to a consumer from moving elsewhere. 
Ive also considered whether the terms in Mr S agreement go further than reasonably 
necessary to protect HSBCs legitimate interests and whether the variation clauses are 
sufficiently transparent. Having done so, and while overall I am satisfied with fairness of the 
variation clause, I accept that there is a possibility that a court might conclude that parts of 
the clause are overly broad and could be more transparent. But I think its important to be 
clear that whatever the answer to this question, the central issue I need to decide is whether 
there has been any unfairness to Mr S from 17 September 2014 onwards. The fairness of 
the underlying variation clause will not of itself properly answer that question.
Our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That 
includes, but is not limited to, relevant law. So, while Ive taken account of the relevant law 
regarding unfair contract terms, Ive also thought more broadly about whether, and the 
extent to which, the way in which the terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment 
for Mr S. I think that is the ultimate question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold 
this case. 
Has HSBC exercised the terms fairly?
In answering this question, I am doing so in the context that this complaint only concerns the 
fairness of interest charged to Mr S mortgage since 17 September 2014. All interest 
charging events before that are out of time because Mr S did not refer his complaint in time. 
However, in order to consider the fairness of the interest Mr S was charged during the period 
that is in time, its necessary for me to consider historic changes to HSBCs SVR, since the 
SVR charged during the period of time that is in time is the result not only of decisions HSBC 
made during that period, but also the result of decisions it made prior to it. 
Im satisfied that each time HSBC made a decision to change the SVR, the SVR remained at 
that revised level until it made a further decision to change it  from the starting point of the 
level resulting from the previous variation. Therefore, the SVR charged from 17 September 
2014 is the sum of the parts of the history that went before. And issues impacting on the 
fairness or lawfulness of those parts might have an impact on the fairness of the SVR 
charged from September 2014. 
Having established that I need to look at the SVR both before and after September 2014, 
and having considered all the available evidence, I am not persuaded that anything HSBC 
has done in varying the rate has led to unfairness from 17 September 2014 onwards. 
HSBC has provided us with information and evidence to support its SVR pricing decisions. 
Within its submissions, HSBC has also been able to show how the global financial crisis 
impacted it specifically and how this fed into its decision to vary the SVR and by how much. 
Naturally, the amount of evidence HSBC has been able to provide is limited by the passage 
of time - Mr S mortgage was taken out over fifteen years go. But despite this, it has been 
able to provide substantial submissions to support the decisions it made to vary its SVR. 
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence HSBC has 
been able to provide in full or provided copies of it to Mr S. Our rules allow me to accept 
information in confidence, so that only a description of it is disclosed, where I consider it 
appropriate to do so. In this case, I do consider it appropriate to accept the information and evidence HSBC has provided in confidence, subject to the summary of it I have set out in 
this decision. 
For the most part, the changes HSBC made to the SVR during the life of Mr S mortgage, 
were shortly after a change to base rate and by the same amount. The exception to this was 
for the period November 2008 to March 2009 while Mr S was on his fixed-interest rate. 
Whilst the SVR did reduce during this period, it didnt reduce by the same proportion as the 
reduction in the base rate.
Ive already set out that this was not a tracker mortgage, so HSBC was not contractually 
obligated to track the base rate. Nor is it the case that Mr S mortgage had a cap preventing 
HSBCs SVR from increasing beyond a certain margin above base rate. So, there was 
nothing in the contract that expressly prohibited HSBC from setting the SVR at a level 
whereby the margin between the SVR and base rate would change. But that doesnt mean 
that HSBC could set the SVR at whatever level it chose. As discussed above, the term 
enabling HSBC to vary the SVR itself has to be fair (to prevent businesses taking advantage 
of customers), and HSBC had to ensure that in varying the SVR it only did so for one of the 
reasons set out in the contract.
At this time, the mortgage market was going through a period of significant change as a 
result of the global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of businesses, including 
HSBC, and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across 
the market at the time. This was clear at the time and has been the subject of analysis by 
both the Bank of England2 and the FCA3 since. Whilst the base rate did reduce significantly 
during this period, the cost to lenders of funding their businesses changed, as did their 
prudential requirements. These were made up of several factors and that are not directly 
linked to base rate. 
HSBC has told us that each change to its SVR was triggered by a change in base rate. It 
has explained that the global financial crisis caused a disconnect between base rate and the 
cost to HSBC of funding its mortgage products. More specifically, HSBC found that its ability 
to raise funds on the wholesale market was severely limited leading to an increase in cost for 
this type of funding. 
At the same time, the cost to HSBC of retail funding rose. Retail banks were competing to 
attract and retain deposits which naturally drove up the amount of interest HSBC had to pay 
its retail deposit holders. One of the ways HSBC mitigated this increase in cost, was via the 
interest rates it charged its mortgage customers. 
The economic uncertainty of the time increased the risks associated with mortgage lending 
which also increased the cost to HSBC of running its mortgage book and was reflected in its 
decision not to pass on the full base rate reductions between November 2008 and March 
2009. 
While I am aware that Mr S representative has relied on an experts report to suggest that 
cost of funds fell in line with base rate, I am not persuaded this outweighs the business 
specific evidence provided by HSBC on the impact of the financial crisis on its own cost of 
funding. In addition, as I have said above, I have considered other sources such as the Bank 
of England that lead me to a different conclusion from Mr S representative.
2 Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England  Bank funding costs: what are they, what 
determines them and why do they matter? 
3 May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in financial services 
consumer contracts under the Consumer Rights Act paragraphs 2.8 to 2.10Mr S representative says that taking into account the increasing interest rates it had to pay 
on its retail deposits shows that HSBC was taking into account an irrelevant consideration 
and therefore breached its Braganza duty. It also suggests that such costs cannot fall within 
the term any change in the cost to us of the money we lend as they relate to savers 
accounts not mortgage customers. 
I disagree with both conclusions. HSBC part funds its mortgage book with retail funding. As 
such, if the costs of that retail funding increase, so does its mortgage funding. As a result, I 
do not agree that the costs of its retail deposits increasing is an irrelevant consideration and 
given HSBC part funds its mortgage book with retail funding, I am also satisfied that a 
change in retail funding does fall within the above term.
In addition to its cost of funds increasing and the disconnect between its funding at the base 
rate, HSBC has also told us that in late 2008 it was nearing the cap it had put in place for the 
total amount of mortgage lending it could have on its books. This was implemented to 
ensure it met its prudential requirements and reflects that mortgage lending carries with it the 
inherent risk that some consumers may default  a risk that increased during the financial 
crisis. So, HSBC had to ensure it had enough capital to mitigate this risk and ensure it 
stayed within its risk weighted asset caps. 
As a result, it needed to reposition its SVR rates in line with its competitors in order to reduce 
the amount of mortgage lending on its books, relying on the term any change in interest 
rates charged by other major banks or financial institutions in the UK mortgage market. This 
was an influencing factor in its pricing decision but not the sole reason. As I have set out 
above and as evidenced by HSBC, its decision to vary the SVR was multifaceted and also 
included the impact of the changes in base rate and the increase in its cost of funds.
Mr S representative has suggested that it was unfair for HSBC to move to a mid-tier lender, 
rather than a low rate lender and that such a move was to the disadvantage of its mortgage 
customers. However, I am not aware of any obligation on HSBC to maintain a certain 
position within the market and I havent seen any evidence that Mr S was unable to switch 
lender or product should he have been unhappy with the changes HSBC made. Further, the 
rate offered by HSBC at the time was still below market average and it appears Mr S chose 
to stay on this rate until 2016 when he switched product. 
Overall, having carefully considered the evidence provided by both parties, I have not seen 
any evidence to suggest the changes HSBC made were arbitrary, excessive, or unfair. 
Rather, the evidence Ive seen satisfies me that HSBC acted to protect its legitimate 
interests while balancing its obligation to treat Mr S fairly. And Im further satisfied that the 
evidence HSBC has been able to provide for this period is corroborated by evidence of wider 
market conditions at the time.
So even if I were to conclude that the relevant terms were unfair pursuant to UTCCR, I am 
not persuaded that HSBC operated them in an unfair manner when setting and varying the 
interest rate that applied to Mr S mortgage. That being the case, I dont think there is any 
basis to say that they somehow contributed to Mr S being charged an unfairly high rate of 
interest on his mortgage during the period I can consider, and Ive seen no evidence to say 
that the interest he was charged during that period was unfair for any other reason. 
I have also considered the representatives point that HSBC has breached Principle 6 of the 
FCA Handbook and MCOB 11.5(1)(b). Having done so, and for much the same reasons set 
out above, Im not persuaded it has. 
Finally, I note that the representative has argued that HSBC had breached its Braganza 
duty not to exercise its discretion to vary the SVR arbitrarily, capriciously, perversely or irrationally. For the reasons set out above, if there was such a duty in the present case, Im 
satisfied that HSBC did not breach it since it approached the question of varying the SVR 
fairly and rationally.
My final decision
Considering everything, and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and 
I make no award against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2023.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman