The complaint
Mr P complains about charges Santander UK Plc has applied to his credit card account.
What happened
Mr P complained to Santander about charges applied to his credit card for cash transactions. 
Santander said the fees and charges had been applied correctly and in line with the terms of 
the card. The fees were noted on Mr Ps monthly credit card statements since he took it out 
in 2014.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service. He said he didnt think it was fair that Santander 
was charging him more for withdrawing cash than if he was using it to make purchases 
directly. He said in his line of work, most purchases were made by cash and Santander was 
aware of this when he took out the card. He believed Santanders charges werent 
proportionate. He was being charged £3 for a £5 cash transaction which worked out to be 
60%. At times he was going over his credit limit because of the fees and hed incurred extra 
charges because of this. He believed it amounted to unfair treatment and an unfair contract.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He thought the fees and charges had been applied fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators opinion, so his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P previously complained to Santander about charges on fees on his credit card in 2017. 
Santander issued a final response letter in relation to this in December 2017, giving Mr P six 
months to refer his complaint to our service. I understand Mr P didnt refer his earlier 
complaint to us, so I wont be able to consider any charges that had already been 
considered as part of it. 
Mr P believes the fees and charges Santander has applied to his account are unfair. Hes 
particularly unhappy that Santander charges him more for using his card for cash 
transactions than if he was using it for purchasing goods or services. He also thinks its 
unfair that hes been charged an over limit fee on occasions when these charges have 
resulted in him exceeding his credit card limit. Mr P says legislation means that the fees 
amount to unfair treatment and an unfair contract. Hes referred to the Unfair Contract Terms 
Act 1977. 
DRN-1350916Unfair terms are now covered by more recent legislation - the Consumer Rights Act 2015. 
This act makes it easier for consumers to challenge hidden fees and charges. They can be 
assessed for fairness, unless they are both prominent and transparent.
Ive considered Mr Ps points. But I dont think this legislation is relevant to his complaint. I 
say this because I think Santander has given Mr P clear information about the fees and 
charges applying to his account. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr P signed when he took out his credit card. This sets 
out the fees that could be charged on the account. It shows a Cash Transactions Fee of 
3% (minimum £3). It also lists the fees for breaking the agreement including Over Limit 
Fee (if you are over your Credit Limit when your statement is produced) of £12. This 
information is also showing on Mr Ps credit card statements. 
In its response to Mr Ps previous complaint about fees and charges (dated December 
2017), Santander referred him to the terms and conditions of the account and highlighted 
that whats considered to be a cash transaction includes any use made for gambling 
including internet gambling and purchase of lottery tickets.
So, Im satisfied that Mr P is aware of the fees and charges applying to his credit card. And 
that hes continued to use his card for cash transactions, knowing he would be charged a 
minimum of £3 each time he did so. 
I appreciate that Mr P feels that £3 is a proportionately high fee for a £5 transaction. But 
Santander has set its minimum cash transaction fee at £3. This is a commercial decision and 
its not the role of this service to tell it how much its allowed to charge. 
I also think it was fair for Santander to charge him a £12 fee on the occasions he went above 
his credit limit. This fee is for breaking the terms of the agreement and is separate to the 
cash transactions fees. The fees for cash transactions shouldnt have been a surprise to Mr 
P. And I think he should reasonably have been aware that using the card the way he did
might result in him exceeding his credit limit.
Mr P has commented that Santander has refunded fees and charges to him in the past. But I 
think its made it clear to him that this was a gesture of goodwill. In its letter of December 
2017, Santander told Mr P if the card is used in a similar manner in the future all quasi cash 
transaction fees and subsequent interest applied will be valid . So, I wont be asking 
Santander to refund any fees or charges to him.
Overall, I think all the charges have been fairly applied in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account. Mr P agreed to these when took out his credit card and Santander has given 
him clear information about them. So, I dont think Santander has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman