DRN-3346137
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs G complain National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined a claim 
they made on their ten-year building warranty policy, for cracked quoins and brickwork on 
their apartment block. 
What happened
The subject of this complaint is a building of 17 apartments. Mr C is also representing the 
other leaseholders that own apartments in the building, who have separate, but the same 
complaints with our service, in relation to their separate policies. All the parties are aware 
that what I say here in respect of Mr C and Mrs Gs complaint, also applies to the same 
complaints brought by the other leaseholders.
Each apartment is covered by a ten-year policy. The cover started in 2008. The managing 
agent reported cracked quoins and brickwork to NHBC in 2015. During years three to ten, 
section 3 of the policy applies. Section 3 covers physical damage if its been caused by a 
defect in certain parts of the building. A defect is defined as a breach of any mandatory 
NHBC Requirement in its published Standards.
The policy also includes various exclusions and a claim must meet the minimum claim value. 
The minimum claim value depends on when the claim was made, as it increases each year 
in-line with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors House Re-building Cost Index. 
When NHBC was notified of the cracking in 2015, the minimum claim value was £964.
The part of the building damaged is a common part. This means each leaseholder has their 
own separate claim for their share of the repair costs. Therefore, for the claims to succeed, 
the repair costs must exceed 17 x £964 = £16,388. The policy terms explain the costs are 
based on what NHBC would have to pay if it arranged for the repairs to be done.
There have been other claims referenced during this complaint. In 2014, claims were made 
for rainwater damage caused by a defective parapet roof/terrace and secret gutter. Its my 
understanding those claims were accepted and repairs completed. I also understand that 
one apartment continued to experience water ingress, but NHBC has recently agreed to 
undertake further repairs. Whilst those claims arent the subject of the complaint Im 
considering here, the gutter leaks are relevant to Mr Cs arguments.
In terms of the claims for cracked quoins and brickwork, in 2015, NHBCs claim investigator 
set out his findings in a report. The report referred to the findings of NHBCs structural 
engineer, who had produced a separate report. 
In summary, NHBC concluded that the predominant cause of the cracking to the quoins and 
brickwork, in the areas noted in its reports, had been caused by a defect. It found there was 
a lack of movement joints in some locations, which had resulted in cracking during thermal 
movement. However, its estimated repair costs came to about £14,000, which didnt meet 
the collective minimum claim value of £16,388. So, NHBC declined the claim.
In 2017, Mr C complained about the claim decision on behalf of all the leaseholders. He said 
the repairs had been undervalued. Mr C also argued the cracked quoins and brickwork were 
linked to the gutter leaks, and therefore, that the repairs should form part of those section 3 
claims. He also said the damage should be covered under section 4. NHBC maintained the 
cracking was unrelated to the gutter leaks, and that the repair costs had been calculated 
correctly.
In 2019, one of our investigators explained to Mr C he hadnt seen any expert opinion that 
contradicted NHBCs findings, but if the leaseholders were to obtain such information, we 
would give it consideration.
In 2020, the leaseholders commissioned an engineers report. The report made the following 
conclusions and recommendations:
- Whilst thermal movement has occurred, and additional movement joints should be 
installed, the primary cause of the cracking to the stone quoins was shrinkage. 
- The cracking of the quoins has occurred where the wall was most saturated by the 
gutter leaks, which has exacerbated the shrinkage.
- The cracking could cause instability of the return wall since its no longer bonded to 
the main length of the wall. The damaged quoins should be replaced, along with 
adjacent fractured brickwork.
- Shrinkage has also caused cracking through several stone cills, and one stone lintel. 
The shrinkage could cause damage to the damp proof course beneath the cills, if 
present, which will permit water ingress in the future. The cracks also render the 
cills vulnerable to frost damage. So, the cracked cills should be replaced.
The leaseholders also obtained a quote for about £30,000. The quote was for the installation 
of two movement joints; replacing 17 quoins; and replacing 12 cills.
Mr C provided the report and quote to NHBC. He said, in 2015, NHBC failed to identify the 
full extent of the cracking and remedial work to the quoins. He also noted that NHBC had 
declined several cracked cills on the basis they were a decorative feature. Mr C said the 
cills are an essential structural element, and the damp proof membranes beneath them 
were needed to prevent water ingress. So, he said the 2015 estimated claim value was 
unreliable and the required repairs would have exceeded the collective minimum claim 
value. Mr C also repeated arguments about the quoin cracks being linked to the gutter 
leaks, and the damaged being covered under section 4.
In response, NHBC said the cracking was due to thermal movement of the brickwork panels 
on the most exposed side of the building. It said the cracking wasnt due to shrinkage in the 
individual units. NHBC said there was no evidence to suggest the thermal movement was 
related to, or affected by, water penetration from the gutters. 
NHBC noted that, in 2015, only one stone cill was found to be damaged. It also said the cills 
are cracked due to thermal movement and there being no slip plane between the stonework 
and brickwork. NHBC said the damp proof course is only required as a slip plane to reduce 
the risk of differential movement; and there isnt a requirement, in respect of water ingress, 
for a damp proof membrane beneath the cills. NHBC also noted the window frames have 
integral cills with drips, which confirms the stone cills are a decorative feature. Therefore, 
NHBC said the cills shouldnt form part of the claim or estimated repair costs.NHBC said, even if the additional cracked stone quoins were now included (but not the cills), 
the cost of the repair still wouldnt exceed the minimum claim value.
The leaseholders were unhappy with NHBCs response, so they brought the matter back to 
our service. One of our investigators didnt think their complaints should be upheld. Mr C 
disagreed on their behalf, so their complaints have been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Should the cracking be covered under Section 4?
Section 4 provides cover if theres a present or imminent danger because the builder failed 
to comply with certain building regulations. Section 4 only applies if NHBC provided the 
building control service during construction.
I havent seen NHBC has responded to Mr Cs point about section 4. However, I understand 
NHBC provided the building control service, and therefore, the leaseholders had the benefit 
of the section 4 cover during years three to ten.
For a section 4 claim to succeed, it needs to be shown that an applicable building regulation 
was breached, and theres a present or imminent danger because of that breach.
Nothing has been presented that shows an applicable building regulation was breached. But 
even if one was breached, Im not persuaded the cracking presents a present or imminent 
danger.
The leaseholders engineer noted he was concerned about the ongoing stability of the return 
walls and recommended the fractured quoins and bricks be replaced. But that was on the 
basis he hadnt been able to verify if sufficient ties had been installed. I cant reasonably 
decide the cracking presents a danger without such investigations, and its for the 
leaseholders to support their claims. 
Ultimately, I havent seen anything that leads me to believe the cracking presented a present 
or imminent danger in 2015, or indeed, that it presents such a danger now. As such, Im not 
persuaded the cracking should be covered under section 4.
Should the cills form part of the section 3 claims for cracked quoins and brickwork?
NHBC concluded there was a defect causing damage to the quoins and brickwork, i.e. a lack 
of movement joints. I havent seen any expert commentary which links the damaged cills to 
that defect. NHBC has maintained the cill cracks arent related. The leaseholders engineer 
also hasnt linked the cill cracks to the lack of movement joints, but rather, he reported the 
damage had been caused by shrinkage. So, Im not persuaded the cills form part of the 
claims for cracked quoins and brickwork, or that cill repairs should be included when 
calculating the value of those claims.Should the cills be covered under separate section 3 claims?
Theres the question of whether the cills should be covered under separate claims, subject to 
the repair costs meeting the collective minimum claim value. However, Im not persuaded 
those claims would succeed. 
The leaseholders engineer says the cills have cracked due to shrinkage. But if so, damaged 
caused by shrinkage is excluded under section 3.
NHBC points towards a lack of a damp proof course in the bed joints beneath the cills, to act 
as a slip plane during movement. However, under section 3, NHBC only needs to put that 
defect right if the damage caused by it is covered. NHBC says the cills are an aesthetic 
feature only, and the cracking doesnt impair structural stability or weather tightness. 
Cosmetic damage that doesnt impair either of those things is also excluded.
I havent seen any expert opinion that supports the cills are a structural element. So, I accept 
what NHBC says about this. NHBC also says theres no requirement for a damp proof cause 
beneath the cills, in relation to weather tightness. Even if NHBC is wrong about this, and the 
leaseholders engineer is right that a damp proof course should be present to prevent water 
ingress, section 3 doesnt cover preventative measures for damage that might occur in the 
future. As per the policy terms, unless physical damage is reported before a policy expires, 
that isnt cosmetic, a section 3 claim wont succeed. I havent seen theres been water 
ingress in the location of the cills, so Im persuaded that the cracks are, at this time, 
cosmetic.
For completeness, I also note the leaseholders engineer reported a stone lintel above one 
of the balcony doors had cracks. I havent seen this damage was raised within the ten-year 
period of cover. But in any event, like the stone cills, the engineer concludes the damage 
has been caused by shrinkage, which is excluded.
Was NHBCs 2015 repair scope accurate?
Section 3 covers the full cost of putting right any physical damage if its caused by a defect 
in certain parts of the property, providing those costs exceed the minimum claim value and 
subject to the policy exclusions. 
The policy terms define cost as the cost we would have had to pay if we had arranged for 
the work to be done. Therefore, NHBC was entitled to calculate the claim value based on 
the rates it would have had to pay via its contractor network. Nonetheless, NHBC had to 
apply that term fairly, by accounting for all the covered works.
Mr C says NHBC failed to identify all the damaged quoins in 2015. NHBCs 2015 reports and 
engineers drawing refer to damaged quoins on the south-east corner and midway along the 
east elevation, and its repair scope refers to the areas highlighted on the drawing. Mr C has 
pointed towards photos of the east elevation, that show cracked quoins in two areas which 
werent included on the drawing. Mr C says the photos were taken before NHBCs survey, 
and they show damage was missed from the scope used to calculate the claim value. 
On the other hand, NHBC says its reports reflected the damage that was present in 2015. It 
also says, even if all 17 quoins had been included in its repair scope, based on its rates, the 
collective minimum claim value wouldnt have been exceeded.Having reviewed NHBCs 2015 repair scope, its not clear how much the repair costs would 
have increased by, if at all, by including all 17 quoins. The number of quoins to be replaced 
on the scope isnt specified. But rather, it says all the damaged quoins and bricks are to be 
replaced in the two affected areas, and a single sum is provided for those repairs and the 
movement joints. So, its not clear from the scope what the per quoin cost was. Its also 
unclear if replacing additional quoins in other areas on the east elevation would have 
increased scaffolding costs. 
However, whilst Ive not seen the repair scope would have remained below the collective 
minimum claim value with the additional quoins, Im not persuaded missed damage can 
reasonably be argued with an alternative report and quote over four years later.
In 2015, the managing agent reported a vertical crack on the south-east corner, which it said 
looked like thermal movement. NHBC observed vertical cracks on the south-east corner and 
midway along the east elevation, related to thermal movement, due to the lack of movement 
joints (a defect). Given NHBC had inspected the east elevation, on balance, I dont consider 
it likely it would have missed cracks that were related to the accepted defect.
Even if, in 2015, some cracks were present in other areas on the east elevation, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that those cracks were related to the lack of movement joints. NHBCs 
engineer commented in his report that its likely some early-age shrinkage cracking had 
occurred. In addition, the leaseholders engineer concluded shrinkage was the primary 
cause of the cracks to the quoins. As explained above, shrinkage isnt covered under 
section 3. So, the photos presented, dont, on balance, persuade me the cracks not 
included in NHBCs reports were defect related.
Ultimately, if the leaseholders intended to dispute the accuracy of NHBCs report or claim 
value, it was for them to commission a report and/or quote at that time. I cant reasonably 
decide that all the damage now present was present in 2015, even if it is related to the 
accepted defect rather than shrinkage. Given the two recommended movement joints 
werent installed, I accept further damage will have likely occurred since 2015. 
After NHBC declined the claim, it was for the freeholder to carry out repairs to prevent further 
damage. I understand each of the leaseholders has a share of the limited company that own 
the freehold, and some are directors. But either way, in my view, NHBC isnt responsible for 
the further damage thats likely occurred because repairs werent undertaken.
To summarise, Im not persuaded NHBCs repair scope didnt accurately reflect the defect 
related damage that was present in 2015, or that its scope can reasonably be challenged 
over four years later via an alternative report and quote, when the damage is likely to be 
worse.
Were the quoin and brickwork cracks caused by the gutter leaks?
Mr C has also argued that the quoins and brickwork have cracked as a consequence of the 
water leaking from the gutters. So, he says the repairs should form part of those accepted 
claims.
Mr C says the gutter issue related to the entire roof perimeter, and the insulation beneath the 
waterproof membrane was found to be saturated and materials were rotting. Hes provided 
photos of that damage, and he says it shows theres been ongoing water ingress into the 
structure since 2008. He also says the quoin and brickwork cracks are directly below the 
worst areas of rot, and the water ingress has saturated the quoins and brickwork.This service is generally reliant on the technical expertise of others. When theres a dispute 
about damage, we consider the submissions of those involved to decide what, on balance, 
we are more persuaded by. We generally place more weight on the submissions of those 
considered to be industry experts.
Here, we have opposing views from two suitably qualified parties; the leaseholders engineer 
and NHBC. However, I dont consider either party has provided persuasive evidence that 
supports their position or undermines the opposing position. There havent been detailed 
arguments presented in respect of how the water would, or wouldnt, have caused the 
cracks.
Nonetheless, given its the leaseholders who assert theres a link between the water ingress 
and the cracking, its for them to show, on balance, thats the case. Having considered the 
arguments and evidence presented, Im not persuaded they have done that.
The leaseholders engineer made the following statements in his report, in relation to the 
cracked quoins:
-It is thought that their cracking is linked to the defective gutters.
-The cracking seems to have occurred on corners where the water penetration from 
the defective gutter was worst. 
-It is notable that the cracking of the quoins has occurred where, I am informed, the 
wall was most saturated due to the gutter leaks. 
I dont find the engineers statements, or the language used, to be particularly conclusive. Its 
also evident his conclusions are based on what he was told about the walls being saturated 
in certain locations, rather than on what he observed. So, Im not persuaded the findings in 
his report show, on balance, theres a link.
Equally, even if a link could be shown, for me to reasonably decide the cracking should form 
part of the defective gutter claim, I would need to be persuaded the water ingress was the 
main cause of the cracking. But here, the leaseholders engineer has concluded that the 
primary cause is shrinkage (which as noted above, isnt covered):
-It is considered that the primary cause of cracking of the reconstituted stone is due 
to shrinkage, exacerbated by the previously leaking gutter. 
So, whilst I accept saturated and rotten materials beneath and around the roof were found, 
and theres been water ingress into the nearby apartments, I havent seen anything that 
persuades me the leaking gutters were the main cause of the cracking.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C and Mrs G, and the other leaseholders, but for the reasons Ive 
set out above, I dont uphold their complaints. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs G, 
on behalf of all the leaseholders with the same complaint, to accept or reject my decision 
before 30 March 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman