DRN-2885098
The complaint
 Mr S complains that when he tried to open a bank account, Metro Bank PLC discriminated 
against him based on his national origin.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr S tried to open an account at a branch of Metro Bank. Before going to 
the branch, he checked the banks website to see what documents he needed to bring with 
him. He says the website stated that a British citizen only needs to bring either a UK driving 
licence or a passport, and proof of address. Mr S says he has been a British citizen for over 
50 years. He chose to bring his driving licence, and a council tax bill to prove his address.
Mr Ss driving licence indicated that he was born in Pakistan. The branch staff asked him if 
he was a UK national, and there is a dispute about what his answer was. The branch staff 
say that he initially answered no. Mr S denies that, and it is not in dispute that he asserted 
his British citizenship later on during the same visit.
After some discussion, the bank asked Mr S to provide his passport as evidence of his 
nationality. Mr S complains that this was racial discrimination, because if his licence had said 
he was born in the UK then he would not have been asked for his passport. He also 
complains that during the discussion, the branch manager told him that Pakistan is a corrupt 
country. Mr S left the branch, and did not return. He raised a complaint with the bank and 
then with this service.
Metro Bank did not agree that it had done anything wrong. It said it had only followed its 
normal processes, and that it had not refused to open an account for Mr S; it had only asked 
him for his passport to prove his nationality first. It said it had needed to verify his nationality 
because Pakistan is listed as a high-risk country in money-laundering rules. His nationality 
also mattered because the bank requires different identity documents depending on the 
nationality of the person who is opening an account. A driving licence is only acceptable as 
proof of identity if the licence holder is a British citizen (or a citizen of an EEA member state 
or of Switzerland). Therefore, Metro Bank argued, its staff needed to know if Mr S was a 
British citizen before they could know whether they could accept a driving licence. The bank 
also asked whether Mr S had evidence that he was in fact a British citizen.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said he could not be sure what had been 
said in the branch. But he thought that, since UK driving licences can be issued to people 
who are not British citizens, it had not been unreasonable of the bank to ask for further proof 
of Mr Ss identity, since his nationality had not been clear. He didnt think the bank had 
refused to open an account, or that the bank had treated Mr S unfairly.
Mr S did not agree. He said he had been treated less favourably than other people who open 
accounts with Metro Bank, because of his place of birth. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision, and he asked for an explanation about why Pakistan had been called corrupt.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has kindly provided me with a copy of his UK passport to verify that he is indeed a 
British citizen.
The law requires banks to verify a new customers identity with satisfactory evidence 
before forming a business relationship.1 Banks also have a duty to mitigate the risks arising 
in any business relationship  with a person established in a high-risk third country or in 
any other case which by its nature can present a higher risk of money laundering or terrorist 
financing.2 Pakistan has been listed as a high-risk country by the European Commission for 
the purpose of its regulations for preventing money laundering and terrorist financing.3 I think 
it is unfortunate that the word corrupt was used in the branch, as that sounds disparaging  
high-risk would have been better  but I expect that this was somebodys attempt to explain 
to Mr S why the bank wanted to be careful.
The version of the UK regulations which were in force in 2019 did not elaborate on what is 
meant by established in a high-risk country. In January 2020 the regulations were 
amended to explain that it means being resident in that country, but not merely having been 
born in that country.4 However, that was not in force when Mr S applied to open an account, 
so the bank might reasonably have interpreted the rule more broadly in 2019.
Under the regulations, people established in EEA-member countries may generally be 
treated as lower-risk than people established elsewhere.5 No doubt this is the reason why 
Metro Bank had different evidentiary requirements for people who want to open an account, 
depending on their nationality. I hope that Metro Bank has reviewed its policy since the rules 
changed in January 2020, as the focus today is on country of residence and not country of 
origin, but as Mr S sought to open an account in 2019, I dont think it would be fair of me to 
apply the new rules retrospectively to his case. (If Metro Bank has not reviewed its policy, 
then it is not in my remit to order it to, but I would recommend that it does so in the light of 
the new regulation 33(3)(c)(ii) in S.I. 2017 / 692.)
It is not within my remit to determine whether Metro Bank complied with its obligations under 
the Equality Act 2010, but I have still had regard to what that Act says in deciding whether 
Metro Bank treated Mr S fairly.
The Equality Act broadly prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, with some exceptions. 
Under section 9, race includes nationality and national origin. One of the exceptions is that 
discriminating against a person because of his nationality, if done pursuant to legislation, is 
not a contravention of the Act.6 But that exception does not apply to national origin.6
1 Money Laundering Regulations 2003, regulation 4: 
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/3075/regulation/4
2 Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) 
Regulations 2017, regulation 33(1)(b) and (g): 
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2017/692/regulation/33/2017-06-26
3 European Commission regulation 2018/1467, dated 28 July 2018: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2018.246.01.0001.01.ENG&toc=OJ:L:2018:246:TOC
4 2017 Regulations, regulation 33(3)(c)(ii): 
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2017/692/regulation/33/2020-01-10
5 2017 Regulations, regulation 37(3)(c)(i): 
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2017/692/regulation/37/2017-06-26
6 Schedule 23, paragraph 1: https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2010/15/schedule/23/paragraph/1I therefore think it was reasonable of Metro Bank to want to verify Mr Ss nationality before 
opening an account for him. But when Mr S presented his driving licence to bank staff, and 
they did not accept it as evidence of his identity because it showed that his national origin 
was Pakistan, then they treated him less favourably than they would have treated someone 
whose licence said they were born in the United Kingdom. It follows that they discriminated 
against him on the ground of his race, by not accepting his licence.
I think that error is mitigated somewhat by the fact that providing a passport is not an 
onerous requirement, and the fact that Metro Banks website does say that a driving licence 
wont always be enough  it says In most cases this will be all we need. So I think that Mr S 
was on notice that he might be asked to provide an alternative document. But I dont think 
that mitigates the banks error so much that no compensation should be due to Mr S. 
I accept that the incident made him considerably upset, and so an award of compensation is 
appropriate. 
Subject to any further representations I receive from the parties, I am provisionally minded to 
award Mr S £200 compensation for this matter.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S accepted my provisional decision. Metro Bank did not respond. So there is no reason 
for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Metro Bank PLC to pay Mr S £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman