DRN-3034200
The complaint
Mrs D complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) unfairly applied 
charges in respect of excess mileage and arrears under her hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In October 2016 Mrs D acquired a car using a hire purchase agreement provided by 
BMWFS. The agreement set out that the total amount payable (including any advance 
payments) was £16,451.61 and that Mrs D was required to make 48 monthly payments of 
£244.34 as well as an optional final repayment of £4,623.29 if she wanted to purchase the 
car.
The agreement also set out that Mrs D had the right to terminate it at any point before the 
final payment was due. If Mrs D exercised that right, BMWFS would be entitled to the return 
of the car and at least half the total repayment under the agreement, which was £8,225.81.
In June 2020 Mrs D exercised her right to end the agreement and BMWFS sent her a 
voluntary termination pack to complete and return. It also asked her to pay account arrears 
in respect of missed payments totalling £1,303.15. Mrs D subsequently returned the car and 
BMWFS wrote to her in October 2020 explaining that shed exceeded her mileage allowance 
by 28,336 miles, so, she needed to pay an excess mileage charge of £943.59. as well a sum 
for damages caused to the car.
Mrs D disputed the charge BMWFS had applied. In summary she said that section 100 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) says that her liability under the agreement was limited 
to one half of the total price payable. She argued that she had paid this sum, so BMWFS 
was not entitled to ask her to pay anymore. 
BMWFS responded to Mrs Ds complaint in November 2020. It said that the arrears and 
excess mileage charges occurred prior to the agreement being terminated, so Mrs D should 
be expected to pay those sums. It added that the mileage allowances of such an agreement 
should be pro-rated if the agreement is ended early, and that the mileage allowance 
dictated, in a large part, the price of the overall agreement. It also thought the charges it had 
applied for damages were justified.
Mrs D didnt dispute the damages charge, but she did dispute that the others had been 
applied fairly, so, she referred her complaint to this service and it was considered by one of 
our investigators. 
They didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They were satisfied that BMWFS had 
applied the excess mileage charge correctly having taken into account Mrs Ds agreement 
as well as relevant legislation  the CCA. Our investigator also said that the arrears BMWFS 
asked Mrs D to pay represented missed payments during the time the agreement was live, 
so it was fair for it to ask her to pay that sum also.
With specific reference to relevant legislation, our investigator said;
- S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination.
- In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable
under the hire purchase agreement. It doesnt include charges for items that are
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
- S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent
to be affected by the termination.
- The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charge will accrue
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mrs Ds agreement was clear that the
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination.
- The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in
the total price of the agreement.
- The mileage charge (and arrears) therefore accrued prior to termination and counted 
towards the total price of the agreement. Mrs Ds accrued liability under S100 
therefore included paying additional amounts of £943.59 and £1,303.15.
- The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost.
- The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded.
- The investigator concluded that when considering all the terms of the agreement as a
whole, he was satisfied it was made clear and not misleading about when an excess
mileage charge could be applied and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was
fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional amounts.
Mrs D didnt agree. She said, in summary; 
- That the figure our investigator quoted Mrs D as having paid towards the agreement 
was not accurate.
- That arrears had built on the account due to challenging personal circumstances 
which impacted her ability to keep up with payments.
- Prior to the termination of the agreement Mrs D and her husband had discussed the 
potential termination of the agreement with BMWFS and they were told there would 
be nothing more to pay if they terminated.
- If shed been given the figure shed need to pay before terminating the agreement 
she wouldnt have gone ahead with it.
- Mrs D reiterated why she believed relevant legislation supported her position that the 
sums BMWFS asked her to pay were not owing legitimately. She also mentioned the 
outcome of a specific County Court case in which a judge concluded that a different 
lender could not charge for excess mileage in similar circumstances, as well as a 
consultation paper on the voluntary termination of hire purchase agreements.
Our investigator didnt change their mind on the case in light of Mrs Ds points. They 
accepted they may have miscalculated the total amount Mrs D had paid, but said it didnt 
make a difference to their assessment about whether or not the sums BMWFS asked Mrs D 
to pay were fair or not. They acknowledged Mrs D had paid more than the amount required 
to terminate the agreement, but said that her liability was not capped at that amount and she 
was required to pay the arrears balance.
They sympathised that Mrs D had faced challenging personal circumstances. They said that 
even if they accepted BMWFS had caused Mrs D to think shed have nothing further to pay, 
he thought it unlikely that BMWFS wouldve been able to tell Mrs D of any additional sums 
shed need to pay until it inspected the car and that the arrears sum was not an additional 
payment, but payments that should have been made already. They were also satisfied that the correspondence BMWFS sent immediately before the termination made it clear that 
excess mileage and arrears charges could be applied. Lastly, they acknowledged the further 
arguments Mrs D had presented relating to relevant legislation and other cases, but 
considered that their assessment of this particular case had been fair.
Mrs D asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman to make a final decision on it. She 
also said that she was never given a copy of her agreement and she believed BMWFS had 
not provided it to us. She made a Subject Access Request to BMWFS and said shed 
forward on the agreement and any associated terms and conditions.
Before issuing this decision, I told Mrs D  via our investigator  that we had a copy of 
agreement which had been provided by BMWFS. I said that I was satisfied we already had 
enough information regarding Mrs Ds contract with BMWFS to come to a decision on the 
case. I provided Mrs D with a copy and invited further comments.
Mrs D responded to say that she believed wed been given an incomplete copy of the 
agreement as it was only two pages of what she believed was a six page agreement. Mrs D 
said that excess mileage had not been defined on the copy of her agreement that we had 
been given, and provided what she believed to be the remaining four pages. She said, in 
summary, that the excess mileage charges are a form of compensation, so shouldnt be 
included in the total price of the agreement. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Ds comments, but he didnt think it changed his position on 
the case, so its been passed to me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Before doing so, I want to acknowledge that Mrs D has made a number of detailed 
submissions and arguments in relation to this case. Ive considered them all, carefully and in 
detail. My decision, however, will focus on what I think is relevant to the case. I dont intend 
to cover each and every point Mrs D had made, as I dont think thats necessary in setting 
out what I consider to be a fair outcome.
Mrs D has said that she didnt receive a copy of the hire purchase agreement at the outset. I 
dont know for sure whether thats the case, but I find it unlikely. In any event, even if it was 
the case that Mrs D was not given a copy of the agreement to retain, BMWFS gave this 
service a copy of the agreement signed by Mrs D, agreeing to be bound by its terms. So Im 
satisfied that Mrs D ought to have been aware of the terms of the agreement, and its 
reasonable to rely on it in determining whether the sums BMWFS has asked Mrs D to pay 
are fair.
I also accept what Mrs D has said about this service being provided with what seems to be 
the first two pages of her agreement. I say this because Ive seen a number of the hire 
purchase agreements BMWFS gave in cases of a similar nature, around the same time of 
Mrs Ds agreement. Generally speaking, the agreements consist of a total of six pages; the 
agreement itself is the first two pages and the subsequent four are associated terms and 
conditions. In any case, Mrs D has provided what I accept (due to the matching references 
on both documents) is the remaining four pages of general terms and conditions. Ive taken 
this into account in making my decision.I think theres been a little confusion about what sums were due to be paid under the 
agreement. Mrs D has provided a copy of a dealership order form which shows that in 
acquiring the car in question, the cash price of which was £12,995, she traded in a car which 
was given a value of £2,850 and paid the dealer a deposit of £585.68. Both of those sums 
were deducted from the cash price of the new car, but it seems another finance agreement 
was settled by the dealership at a value of £4,400. All of that made a balance due from Mrs 
D of £13,959.68. She has questioned why the total owing under her agreement was quoted 
as being £16,451.
I dont know the details of the arrangement she ultimately reached with the supplying dealer 
insofar as paying any other sums due, or whether that invoice shes provided is accurate, but 
I can see that the hire purchase agreement she entered into with BMWFS was for the cash 
price of the car - £12,995. An advance payment of £100 was deducted from that balance, 
meaning that the amount of credit was £12,895. With the addition of interest, the total 
payable under the agreement was stated as £16,451.61. If Mrs D has concerns that the 
lending she was provided with was for a lesser, incorrect amount, shes free to raise that as 
a further complaint should she wish. However, this complaint is specifically about whether 
BMWFS acted fairly in asking Mrs D to pay sums in respect of excess mileage charges as 
well as arrears, so thats what Ill address.  
Mrs Ds hire purchase agreement allowed her use of the car for the agreements duration. 
She also had the option to purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement on the 
basis that she made a final payment. Although Mrs D was entitled to use the car, that was 
subject to certain conditions, such as taking care of it and only driving a certain distance 
each year and overall throughout the agreement. The agreement set out what would happen 
should Mrs D not meet those requirements.
 
Mrs Ds exercised her right to end the agreement. In some instances, voluntary termination 
allows the hirer to simply hand the car back without having to pay anything more. But that is 
dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement, whether 
there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess mileage or 
other charges are due.
 
In this case, Mrs D disputes the excess mileage charge of £943.59 and arrears of £1,303.15 
that she has been asked to pay.
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of 
Mrs Ds hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and her 
case, that was £8,225.81. Various sections of the agreement Mrs D had with BMWFS also 
referred to the liability on early termination, including where excess mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase the final liability.
Mrs D has referred to the case of Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited v Estrella 
Cahalane which she believes supports her view that lenders arent legally entitled to charge 
for exceeding a mileage allowance. Shes said that a judge decided that excess mileage 
charges were not recoverable in that specific case.
 
While some consumers may have had success in raising this issue through the courts, the 
court will have considered the specific circumstances of those individual cases, including the 
specific terms of the agreements entered into and what that means in relation to liability 
under S99 and S100. Whether or not it is fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In other words, what I 
have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a way as to allow the charging for 
excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding voluntary 
termination? In Mrs Ds specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why.
 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means is that Mrs D is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these 
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mrs Ds hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess mileage 
charges. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will apply if that 
mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance 
will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your obligation to pay any excess 
mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied Mrs Ds 
agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue.
 
The agreement also has a section headed Termination: your rights. This section contains 
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary, 
sets out that so long as Mrs D has paid at least half the total amount payable under the 
agreement, she will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for exceeding 
the mileage might apply. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is 
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains 
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary 
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mrs D.
  
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mrs D is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA. 
 
By the same logic, Im also satisfied that BMWFS was entitled to ask Mrs D to pay the 
arrears which had built by the time she terminated the agreement. As our investigator 
correctly asserted, these were not additional sums owing under the agreement, but 
payments which were due, and had not been made, whilst Mrs D had use of the car. 
Mrs Ds liability under her agreement with BMWFS was not capped at the minimum amount 
she needed to pay to terminate the agreement early. I think the agreement is also clear that 
in order to terminate the agreement early, Mrs D wouldve needed to pay £8,225.81 plus 
any overdue instalments. Having reviewed the payment history in this case, I think its clear 
that there were overdue instalments totalling £1,303.15 at the point Mrs D asked to terminate 
her agreement, and it follows I think it was fair for BMWFS to ask Mrs D to pay those sums.
I acknowledge the point Mrs D has made about having a conversation with BMWFS about 
the amount shed need to pay if she chose to terminate the agreement. Like our investigator, 
I dont think BMWFS couldve foreseen all of the charges it might have needed to apply at 
that stage, so it may not have been able to have given Mrs D an accurate picture. In any 
event, I think that the termination pack which BMWFS subsequently sent to Mrs D was 
sufficiently clear in setting out that she was required to pay £1,303.15 in respect of arrears, and that shed also be required to pay a sum for excess mileage if shed exceeded the pro-
rated mileage allowed under her agreement at the point of termination.
If Mrs D had been confused about whether she might be required to make payments on 
terminating her agreement, I think its fair to say that she couldve clarified things with 
BMWFS before deciding to terminate it. Overall, Im not persuaded that BMWFS misled Mrs 
D about sums she might need to pay on terminating the agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman