DRN-4331668
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with how Starling Bank Limited (Starling) handled a claim she made to 
it.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties so I will cover these briefly and focus on giving 
reasons for my findings.
Miss W bought a clip on dental product using her Starling debit card to make the initial 
instalment of £150 she says that the product arrived late, and when it came it did not fit / 
match her order. She wants a refund.
The supplier of the product said Miss W received it in the correct timescale and that it offered 
to remake the product for her but she refused this and raised a chargeback.
Starling raised a chargeback for Miss W but it was defended by the supplier and not pursued 
further. Miss W is unhappy that Starling was unable to get her a refund and complained.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt uphold it. 
Miss W has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. In summary, she says:
The reason she raised the initial dispute was because (despite receiving goods) she 
did not receive the item she ordered  therefore she disagrees that the order was 
received;
She didnt know she could request a chargeback for not as described/defective 
goods so requested one for not received on advice of the Starling advisor;
She does not agree that the supplier took reasonable action in relation to its warranty 
 and for the warranty to take effect the supplier needs to send over the correct item 
in the first place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read and considered the evidence submitted by the parties but wont comment on it 
all  only the matters I consider to be central to this complaint. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy but reflects my role in resolving disputes informally. 
It is important to note that Starling is not the provider of the goods here  so in deciding what 
is fair and reasonable I am looking at its particular role as a provider of financial services. In 
doing so I note that because Miss W paid for the product using her debit card chargeback 
was a way Starling could possibly help her. So in deciding what is fair and reasonable I have 
focused on this.
There is no requirement for Starling to raise a chargeback, but it is often good practice to do 
so. However, a chargeback is not guaranteed to succeed and is governed by the limitations 
of the particular card scheme rules (in this case Mastercard). I have considered the relevant 
chargeback rules in deciding whether Starling acted fairly. 
Here it appears that Starling raised the chargeback as goods or services not provided  
however, the supplier defended this and Starling discontinued the process. On the face of it I 
dont think Starling acted unreasonably here because courier and other evidence including 
correspondence showed that Miss W did actually receive the goods. So I dont think this 
chargeback had a reasonable chance of succeeding had it been pushed further.
I note that Miss W in her submissions refers to the goods arriving later than expected. 
However, it isnt clear to me that this chargeback reason has provision for that. Even if it did, 
from the information I have seen I am not persuaded the goods came later than they should 
have. I dont see a guaranteed delivery date or agreement about when they had to arrive by 
 the assurances appear to be around the timeframe for the manufacturing process on 
apparent receipt of the customer teeth impression (and there is no persuasive evidence this 
wasnt complied with in any case). 
I also note that Miss W has said because the goods were not correct that she didnt actually 
receive the goods. However, there isnt a dispute that she ordered and received a clip on 
dental product  so essentially she did get the goods albeit goods that she wasnt happy with 
quality wise. So I think the rationale Miss W is suggesting for continuing the chargeback is 
not one I would reasonably have expected Starling to have taken here.
So overall I dont think a chargeback for goods not received had a reasonable chance of 
success. Miss W says that Starling told her to use this reason code  it isnt clear if it did but 
in any event I dont think a chargeback in the alternative had a reasonable prospect of 
success.
Starling could have potentially raised a chargeback for goods not as described/defective but 
the chargeback rules refer to this only being a valid reason code if the supplier has refused 
to offer a remedy such as a repair/replacement. Here the supplier did offer to remake the 
goods under the terms of the guarantee (and as long as Miss W continued to pay her agreed 
instalments). So I dont think the chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success in any 
event. 
I know Miss W has referred to the supplier refusing to proceed with a way forward when she 
told it she was unhappy with its proposal, wanted a refund and would raise a chargeback. 
This process is in the suppliers terms but I accept it could be argued it might impact a 
chargeback under this reason code. However, overall I cant fairly say a chargeback would 
likely have succeeded in the circumstances where a remedy has been offered and 
effectively refused in favour of going through a disputes process. I think it is more likely than 
not the supplier would successfully defend the chargeback by showing that it offered Miss W 
a remedy and that she effectively refused it. 
In the interest of completeness I have considered if another chargeback reason code might 
be relevant  such as that relating to a credit not being processed. However, considering the 
terms and conditions of the retailer and the nature of the product (bespoke) I dont think 
there was a clearly applicable other reason here.
Overall, I think Starling made a reasonable effort to recover the money through the 
chargeback disputes process  but for the reasons given here I dont think it would be fair to say that its actions, on balance, caused Miss W to lose out.
I have taken into account Miss Ws arguments and I do acknowledge her disappointment. 
But it is important to underline that I am not looking at her rights against the supplier in court 
under consumer law such as the Consumer Rights Act 2015. These are possibly more 
favourable to her than the chargeback scheme. However, considering the specific limitations 
of the chargeback scheme I dont think that Starling acted unfairly here. Because I dont 
think Starling acted unfairly I am not directing it to pay Miss W a refund.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman