DRN-3724978
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) withheld a £20 note as a suspected forgery.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr B visited a branch of TSB to pay in money. A £20 note was identified by 
TSB as a possible forgery and it was deducted from Mr Bs credit and sent to the Bank of 
England (BoE). In September 2021, the Bank of England wrote to Mr B to say the note was 
genuine and sent Mr B a cheque for the amount.
Mr B complained. He said he was in the branch for half an hour and the experience was 
humiliating. The cashier involved said the police might be called. And as the BoE had said 
the note was genuine, it was clear that TSB made a mistake. As a pensioner, to have £20 
withheld was a large sum of money. Mr B says he wants compensation of £100.
TSB said they have security processes to follow, and if a bank note is suspected to be 
counterfeit, they were within their rights to investigate the matter further. The measures are 
in place to protect customers from financial crime. They said they were sorry that the note 
turned out to be genuine and for the upset caused to Mr B. TSB paid compensation of £25 
and offered to cover his travel costs such as fuel and parking if he got in touch with them 
with details.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said TSB acted reasonably. He said TSB 
could investigate any suspected counterfeit notes if they wished  that was part of their duty. 
He accepted that TSB didnt always get it right and in this case the note was found to be 
genuine. He felt that the compensation paid by TSB of £25 was fair in the circumstances. Mr 
B had had the money returned to him and so hadnt lost out  financially.
Mr B asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say that all banks, including TSB, have a duty to try to prevent fraud  thats in the 
interests of their customers and its in the interest of our wider society to do so. And so, Ive 
considered Mr Bs complaint in the light of that.
I can see that TSB suspected that one of the notes that Mr B was paying in was a 
counterfeit. And so, they looked at it and decided it should be sent the BoE for testing. In 
such circumstances we consider whether TSB acted within their normal processes for doing 
that. So, we asked to see those, and TSB sent them to us  and I can see that what they did 
was consistent with the checks they have to make. And the process is for the suspected 
note to be taken off a customers credit and sent to the BoE for inspection.
I accept that the BoE then said the note was genuine  but thats not to say that TSB were 
wrong to do what they did  they suspected there was something about the note which 
meant they werent happy and so sent it off to the BoE. That was in line with TSBs duty of 
care.
I completely understand that Mr B felt anxious when he was in the branch and had to wait 
while TSB were checking the note. We asked TSB more about what happened in the branch 
but with the passage of time, they couldnt recall exactly what conversations took place. But 
as Ive said, Im sure that Mr B did find the experience to be difficult  but that doesnt mean 
that TSB were in the wrong here.
Mr B has since had the value of the suspected forged note credited to his account. TSB paid 
compensation of £25 to Mr B  I think that was a fair and reasonable way to deal with Mr Bs 
complaint and is in line with the compensation we would expect to see. TSB also offered to 
meet Mr Bs traveling expenses if he could say what they were  and that offer still stands. If 
Mr B wants to take advantage of that, he should contact TSB.
And so  I am not asking TSB to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman