DRN-3558847
The complaint
Mr P complains Amtrust Europe Limited wrongly declined his claim under his legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust, I include their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr P has legal expenses insurance (LEI) with Amtrust Europe Limited.
Following the passing of his parents, Mr P claimed on his policy for cover to pursue legal 
action against his siblings as he felt they werent acting in line with the wishes of his late 
parents. Amtrust asked him to clarify what he was concerned about. He confirmed he was 
unhappy with the way in which the solicitors were administering the estates, and that his 
parents last wishes and his fathers will hadnt been fulfilled.
Amtrust said there was no cover under the LEI policy for the legal action he wanted to take 
as it wasnt about contesting the will. And they didnt uphold the complaint Mr P made 
against them.
Our investigator didnt think Amtrust had unreasonably declined Mr Ps claim. She said it 
wasnt covered by the policy and there was no reason why Amtrust should depart from the 
policy terms and conditions.
Since Mr P didnt agree, his complaints been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ps strength of feeling about the situation surrounding his late parents 
affairs. And Im aware hes raised other related concerns. To be clear, my decision is limited 
to considering Amtrusts decision not to cover legal action against Mr Ps siblings and/or the 
solicitors relating to the administration of his parents estates and his concerns that his 
parents last wishes and his fathers will havent been fulfilled.
Wed expect an insurer to handle claims promptly and fairly, and not decline a claim 
unreasonably, in line with rules laid down by the Financial Conduct Authority. The starting 
point for assessing that, is the insurance policy. 
Broadly, Amtrust agreed to cover Mr Ps reasonable legal costs, up to the policy limit, for the 
events set out in the policy, subject to its terms and conditions. 
The only potentially relevant section of cover was:
17. Probate
What is insured
Advisers Costs to pursue a Legal Action by You in respect of a probate dispute involving 
the will of Your deceased parents, grandparents, children, stepchildren or adopted children 
where You are contesting a will as a named beneficiary or as a member of a class of 
beneficiaries with an immediate interest.
The policy provides cover where Mr P is disputing the will itself  that is, saying the will is 
wrong or unfair  in his capacity as a beneficiary of the will, not how its being administered. I 
think thats clear from the wording. I acknowledge Mr Ps worried he might not get his share 
of the estate, although recent correspondence seems to suggest steps are being taken to 
distribute it to him and his siblings. Whatever the position, his concerns dont stem from the 
terms of the will. They arise from actions his siblings have taken, through the solicitors, in 
relation to obtaining the grant of probate and administering the will. So, Mr Ps claim isnt 
covered under the policy.
I havent seen anything that persuades me it would be fair, in the circumstances of Mr Ps 
complaint, to depart from a strict interpretation of the policy. I dont think the legal case       
Mr Ps referred us to is relevant here. And I can see Amtrust requested and considered 
relevant information from Mr P and sought legal advice before reaching their decision on 
policy coverage. So, I think they carried out a fair assessment of his claim. 
I appreciate Mr P has LEI cover. And its disappointing for him that his claim has been 
rejected. But the fact he has an insurance policy, doesnt mean every claim will be covered. 
Mr Ps current claim isnt covered, and it was fair for Amtrust to decline it. Bearing everything 
in mind, whilst I understand Mr P will be disappointed, I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman