DRN-2511834
The complaint
Mr. S complains that a car he acquired through a Conditional Sale Agreement with
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance (SCF)wasnt fit for
purpose. He would like to reject it.
What happened
Mr. S says he took out the conditional sale agreement on 1 February 2018 for a two-year-old
car with 14290 miles on the clock. He says he had problems with the stop /start function on
the car from May 2018 onwards. But he says the dealership was unable to replicate the fault.
It said the problem was that Mr. S wasnt driving the car enough. But Mr. S said he couldnt
drive the car as it went into limp mode with restricted performance.
He says he complained to SCF in May 2019. But after an independent inspection Santander
refused to allow him to reject the car.
SCF said an independent inspection didnt confirm any point of sale faults for which it was
responsible.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
Mr  S raised his concerns with SCF in May 2019 some 15 months after he had the 
car  but it still arranged an independent inspection. I thought that was reasonable 
since it was clear from the customer notes that Mr. S first raised some issues with the 
dealership the same month, he got the car  these were  noted as smoke coming out 
of the car exhaust, a smell of petrol and a system fault when driving.
 The first reference I was aware of about the stop start function was when a software 
update was applied at the health check in May 2018. 
 Mr. S did raise a problem with the stop start function within six months of having the 
car.
The independent inspector experienced the same problem that Mr. S had in that the 
car went into limp mode at roughly 15 miles into the test drive. The inspector noted 
that from then on only minimal performance was available and that the car couldnt 
be properly used in its current state. So, it was  clear that Mr. S did have a problem 
with the stop start function.
The report went onto say that the condition could be battery related and 
recommended that a new fully charged battery be fitted to see if this resolved the 
problem. I wasnt sure if this was done. But both Mr. S and SCF  noted that four 
visual inspections of the car carried out between May 2018 and March 2019 didnt 
find a problem with the battery. So, I was inclined to believe the battery wasnt the 
problem.
The report went onto say that if the battery wasnt the issue then it was likely to be an 
electrical problem. And that such defects can occur suddenly with no warning. It 
concluded if there was an electrical problem it would be unlikely this had been 
present or developing at the point of sale.
It was clear that  Mr. S has continued to have the same problem. He sent us a report 
which I found was much less detailed than the independent inspection SCF 
commissioned and I was less persuaded by it. 
Mr Ss report noted faults with the warning lights and engine performance  these 
were red flagged. But there was no indication as to what caused these problems or 
any comment as to whether these issues were point of sale issues or not. The report 
was primarily a list checklist completed against all aspects of the car.
It was  unfortunate Mr. S  experienced these problems. And from the mileage its 
clear he was paying for a car that he wasnt using. So, I appreciated  that must be 
very annoying for him.
But considering all the information I had it seemed to me that the most likely problem 
was an electrical fault. And that seemed to be the conclusion Mr. S has drawn 
himself from his own inspections.
But  the independent inspected noted that electrical faults can occur anytime. So  
even though Mr. S first raised the problem shortly after getting the car, I had no 
evidence to say this problem was present or developing at the point of sale. So, I 
didnt think I could  reasonably expect SCF to allow Mr. S to reject the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander hasnt responded to my provisional decision. As the decision found in its favour, I 
wouldnt necessarily expect it to have made any further comments for me to take into 
account. Given that, and the fact I believe it has had enough time to reply, I think it is 
reasonable to go ahead with my final decision.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional decision and made several points which I have carefully 
considered and summarised below.
Mr S feels as an electrical fault wasnt identified by the dealership, but he has had  an 
ongoing problem since he got the car, that the fault was unidentifiable but  present at the 
point of sale. I am afraid thats not the conclusion of the independent report.
With regard to the reports I have seen Mr S says all the reports confirmed the car wasnt fit 
to drive. Its true that the independent report which I gave more weight to since it was more 
detailed and specifically addressed if there was a point of sale issue or not did say the car 
couldnt be properly used in its current state. I accept Mr Ss  concerns particularly about using the car with his family. But just because 
the independent report stated the car couldnt properly be used in its current state doesnt 
mean that there was a fault at the point of sale for which Santander is responsible.
Mr S feels the dealership deliberately delayed dealing with the problem until his warranty 
expired. I have no proof that this was the case.
I do accept Mr S raised the problem with the car within six months of having it. But that 
doesnt automatically mean that Santander is responsible for the problem. That wasnt the 
conclusion of the independent report that I relied on.
Finally, Mr S disagrees that the problem is an electrical one. I agree that the conclusion of 
the independent inspection was that the problem might be battery related -which I 
discounted for reasons explained in my provisional decision.  It concluded the problem might 
be an electrical one. But what is important is that it found no evidence of any problem 
present or developing at the point of sale . And that is what I would need for me to allow Mr 
S to reject the car.
Unfortunately, I do not feel Mr S has given me any new information to make me feel I should 
change my provisional decision of not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman