DRN-4228254
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Starling Bank Limited registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
In 2022, Mr A received two payments totalling over £1,000. He quickly forwarded on the 
money to cryptocurrency platforms using his Starling card and app. Later that day, Starling 
learned that the money came from a scam victim whod been defrauded into paying Mr A.
Mr A told Starling the money was from a family friend who owed him. He then said it was 
actually from a friend who was going to lend him £20 for a taxi, but instead sent him over 
£1,000 of fraudulent money without his permission and for no apparent reason. Finally, he 
said the money was payment for goods he was selling through his business. He confirmed 
hed forwarded the money to his own cryptocurrency account, then later claimed the largest 
payment didnt go through.
Starling closed Mr As account and registered a marker at CIFAS. Mr A came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr A and Starling a provisional decision on 21 June 2023, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, Starling were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr A had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided so far, I currently think Starling did have sufficient grounds to register 
this marker. Ill explain why.
Starling was sent an official report that the money Mr A received was the proceeds of fraud. 
And Im satisfied from Starlings technical evidence that Mr A forwarded the fraudulent funds 
on to cryptocurrency accounts.
Mr A acted very quickly indeed to forward the fraudulent funds on, meaning they couldnt be 
recovered once the fraud was reported. This would be unusual if the payments were just 
money for a taxi or goods he sold  hed have no good reason to act so quickly. But it fits 
very well with the expected activity of someone who was either involved in the fraud or 
acting as a money mule.
Ive considered the reasons Mr A gave for being entitled to the money. Hes already 
confirmed that his first story was fictitious, saying he told it because he was in shock.
Mr As second story was that a friend was going to send him £20 for a taxi, but instead sent 
him fraudulent funds. Mr A initially said he had proof of this, such as saved screenshots. But 
when we asked him for such evidence he didnt provide any. Theres no record of Mr A 
receiving any such payment from this friend at the time, nor paying for a taxi. Further, it 
wouldnt make any sense for a friend to give their proceeds of crime to Mr A without his 
consent  they would essentially just be losing over £1,000 while getting their friend in 
trouble. And it certainly wouldnt make sense for Mr A to forward this money to his crypto 
accounts if he was only expecting £20 for a taxi and knew he wasnt entitled to over £1,000. 
Mr A now says he told this story as he got mixed up between the money he received from 
his friend and the money he received from his customer at the same time. But as far as I can 
see, the friend didnt sent him money at the time, there wasnt a taxi, and what hes said is 
simply not plausible. So this wasnt just a mix up  this story appears to be fictitious as well.
Next, Mr A said the money was for goods he sold from his business. He said a fraudster 
bought the goods, using funds which Mr A only found out afterwards were fraudulent. 
Mr A was unable to provide any substantial evidence that this business existed or was 
legitimate, saying it was just a side hustle. He didnt have any evidence of selling any other 
goods, such as invoices, money received, or contact with other customers, even though he 
would have plenty of such evidence if hed really been selling goods. Mr A did provide 
undated photos of unidentified people holding unspecified, unlabelled clothes or packages. 
But those pictures do not objectively substantiate in any reasonable way that these were 
goods he actually sold.
Mr A also provided a receipt and pictures of the goods he said he was going to sell to the 
fraudster, and screenshots purporting to be his conversation with the fraudster. But there are 
significant inconsistencies in the evidence he provided. For example: 
The amount Mr A received does not match up to the amount he was allegedly selling 
the goods for
The receipt Mr A provided was in someone elses name, for goods which were a 
different colour to the ones he provided pictures of
In the screenshots, Mr A refers to the money as being fraudulent before Starling told 
him it was fraudulent. At that point, Starling had only asked him for more details 
about the nature and purpose of the funds as part of some checks
According to Mr As screenshots, the fraudster gave him a fake address to send the 
goods to, then sent him fraudulent funds, getting his account blocked. That would 
make no sense. Thered be no benefit to a fraudster for them to carry out a difficult 
and sophisticated scam, only to send all the proceeds to a random person they didnt 
know, in exchange for goods theyd never receive  as the account would be blocked 
before the goods could reasonably be sent, and theyd given a fake address anyway.
So Mr A has not sufficiently evidenced that the was entitled to this money, and I have 
concerns that some of the evidence he provided may not be genuine.Mr A has now claimed that the largest payment to the crypto platform didnt go through, 
providing a transaction history from a crypto account to evidence it was never received. But 
I can see from the technical evidence that the payment definitely did go through, and its not 
possible to see which crypto account it paid. All Mr As evidence shows is that it didnt go to 
that particular crypto account. So Mr A either sent that payment to a different crypto account 
of his  meaning he benefitted from the fraud; or he sent it to someone elses crypto account 
then claimed otherwise  which wouldnt really make sense for him to do unless he was 
acting as a money mule.
Mr A also sent two smaller payments to a second crypto platform via his Apple Pay facility. 
When we asked him for more evidence about that, he said he didnt remember those. Ill 
send Mr A another copy of his statements to refresh his memory.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr A 
couldve knowingly and willingly forwarded on the proceeds of fraud.
In summary:
Mr A received the confirmed proceeds of fraud
Mr A acted very quickly to forward the fraudulent funds on to cryptocurrency 
platforms, in such a way that they couldnt be recovered, in a manner consistent with 
what Id expect from someone involved in the fraud
Mr As testimony has been inconsistent and implausible, and at key points untruthful
Mr A has not been able to sufficiently evidence he was entitled to the money, even 
where such evidence should have been straightforward to provide, and some of the 
evidence he provided does not appear to be genuine
As far as I can see, Mr A has either benefitted from the fraud himself, or forwarded 
the fraudulent funds to someone else as a money mule would.
So it seems fair that Starling closed Mr As account and registered a marker against him at 
CIFAS. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr A 
to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im currently 
unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
5 July 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Starling didnt add anything further. Mr A thanked us 
for our time and added a few comments.
Mr A said he didnt know what the person he was talking to was thinking, and suggested 
they may have given him their real address and only said it was fake. Mr A also clarified that 
he was going through a stressful time and that impacted his judgement. He confirmed he 
didnt have any further evidence to provide, and said hed learned his lesson about how to 
run a business in future.Im grateful for Mr As comments. I accept its possible that someone might only say theyre 
giving a fake address, though Ive also not been able to match the name Mr A provided to 
the address provided. And the other inconsistencies  such as the difference in amounts, the 
receipt not matching up to the goods Mr A said he sold, and that in the screenshots Mr A 
apparently knew the funds were fraudulent before he was told  still leave me with concerns 
that this evidence is not genuine.
I also appreciate Mr As point that he didnt understand he was supposed to have proper 
business records. But again, even with an unregistered business, Mr A should still have 
been able to show evidence of contact with other customers, payments he received for 
goods, delivering goods, and so on. Its not very plausible that hed have no evidence of this 
business aside from photos of unlabelled items being held by unidentified hands.
Lastly, Im sorry to hear that Mr A was going through a stressful time, and I do appreciate 
that this can affect ones judgement. But Im afraid I find that the contrary  and at times, 
untrue  nature of Mr As testimony goes beyond just a lapse in judgement. And Ive got to 
put that together with the other evidence at hand, e.g. that:
Mr A received the confirmed proceeds of fraud
Mr A acted very quickly to forward the fraudulent funds on to cryptocurrency 
platforms, in such a way that they couldnt be recovered, in a manner consistent with 
what Id expect from someone involved in the fraud
Mr A has not been able to sufficiently evidence he was entitled to the money, even 
where such evidence should have been straightforward to provide, and some of the 
evidence he provided does not appear to be genuine
As far as I can see, Mr A has either benefitted from the fraud himself, or forwarded 
the fraudulent funds to someone else as a money mule would.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before: that it was 
fair for Starling to close Mr As account and register a marker against him at CIFAS. I realise 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, though it is not my intention to disappoint him. 
But I cant reasonably come to another conclusion in this case.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman