DRN-3649299
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC delayed a request to transfer his ISA, causing him 
losses of several thousand pounds.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr B opened a two-year fixed rate ISA with Lloyds. The account terms said 
that, if he closed the ISA within the two-year period, he would have to pay the equivalent of 
180 days interest. Mr Bs investment was just over £20,000, and the interest rate was 1% a 
year, so closing the account before April 2021 would cost around £100.
In or about March 2020 Mr B opened an investment account with another provider, which Ill 
refer to as F. He invested £19,800 and wanted to transfer the funds in his Lloyds ISA into the 
same investment. He instructed F to contact Lloyds to arrange for the transfer  as is usual 
when funds in an ISA are transferred from one provider to another. Lloyds says however that 
it was unable to process that request, initially because the transfer request had been sent to 
the wrong department within the bank and then because Mr B had not updated the address 
it held for him.
Once Mr Bs address had been updated, F made a further request to have the funds 
transferred, which Lloyds says it received on 20 May 2020. The bank says however that the 
second request did not include Mr Bs confirmation that it could deduct the 180 days interest 
if the transfer went ahead. It formally rejected the transfer request on 15 June 2020.
Mr B complained that the transfer had not gone ahead. Lloyds considered his complaint and, 
in a letter of 17 September 2020, acknowledged that it was likely that Mr B had, on two 
occasions, given authority for the transfer to go ahead. It said that it had arranged for £250 
to be paid to Mr B by way of compensation for the inconvenience caused and offered to 
backdate any financial loss caused to 4 June 2020. Lloyds also invited Mr B to arrange for a 
new transfer request to be submitted and said that it would waive the transfer penalty.
The ISA funds were transferred to F on 29 September 2020, and the Lloyds ISA was closed.  
Mr B did not believe this was enough to resolve the complaint and referred the matter to this 
service. He said the delay in transferring the funds had led to a loss of around £4,000  the 
sum by which his investment would have increased if it had been transferred when he 
asked.
Our investigator considered what had happened. He thought that the initial difficulties with 
the transfer could have been resolved much sooner and recommended that any losses be 
backdated as if the transfer had been made in March 2020.
Lloyds did not accept the investigators assessment. It said that, as the transfer process was 
automated and was triggered by the new provider, it could not intervene in the way the 
investigator had suggested. It asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I thought I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that 
reached by the investigator, issued a provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision, I noted that Lloyds had acknowledged that it had made an error. 
It said it should have processed the transfer by 4 June 2020. I agreed with that assessment.
I agreed too that Lloyds should compensate Mr B for any investment gains he had missed as 
a result of the delay in making the transfer. I asked him to provide evidence of the 
investment performance from 4 June to 29 September 2020 since, but for the banks error, 
he would have had an additional benefit of any increase in that period. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr B said that the transfer should have been 
completed well before 4 June 2020. He thought that Lloyds had ignored a properly 
completed transfer request and that any issues with his address should have been resolved 
within a couple of weeks. 
Mr B also explained that he had asked his financial adviser in September 2020 about the 
value of the investment in June 2020. The adviser had said that there had been gains in 
April and May 2020, but that the value of the fund in September 2020 had been much the 
same as in early June.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have not changed my view from that set out in my provisional 
decision. 
When a customer wants to transfer an ISA from one provider to another without losing the 
tax benefits associated with the account, the request is made by the transferee provider. 
That is what happened here  F asked Lloyds to make the transfer. 
However, the first transfer request was sent to a different department of the bank (which did 
not deal with Mr Bs account); in addition, Mr Bs address needed updating. In the 
circumstances, I do not believe that I can fairly hold Lloyds responsible for any delays before 
4 June 2020. 
I do not accept, as Mr B has said, that Lloyds ignored a properly completed transfer request. 
The first request was not, for the reasons I have explained, properly completed. That was 
the reason it was not acted on. 
I do agree however that, once the bank did receive a properly completed request, it did not 
act as it should have done. That is why I agree that the transfer should have been completed 
on or about 4 June 2020. Lloyds has paid Mr B £250 in recognition of that. It also agreed to 
waive the interest penalty. I agree that is fair compensation for the inconvenience to which 
Mr B was put.   
I said in my provisional decision that Lloyds should also pay any losses as a result of that 
delay  as it had offered to do. Having considered the further evidence on that point, 
however, I am not persuaded that there were any losses. The value of the investment was 
much the same at the end of September as it had been in early June 2020. It follows in my 
view that Lloyds has done enough to resolve Mr Bs complaint.    My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Bs complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman