DRN-2953625
The complaint
Mr S complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender didnt carry out adequate 
affordability checks before lending to him.
What happened
Mr S was provided with four loans by Mr Lender between December 2018 and December 
2019. The details of these are set out below.
Loan Amount Instalments Date Repaid
1 £200 3 14/12/2018 11/01/2019
2 £500 6 26/01/2019 06/02/2019
3 £400 6 09/04/2019 29/11/2019
4 £1,450 12 02/12/2019 18/12/2020
Mr S raised a complaint with Mr Lender saying that adequate checks werent carried out 
before the loans were provided and that he needed to take out further borrowing to be able 
to meet his financial commitments.
Mr Lender didnt uphold Mr S complaint but as a gesture of goodwill offered to clear his 
outstanding balance. It has since confirmed this offer isnt available.
Mr S didnt agree with Mr Lenders response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint as she didnt think that the loans shouldve been 
provided to Mr S. She noted Mr S income and that he declared £800 a month as payment 
towards other loans including short term loans. She thought this should have alerted 
Mr Lender to the fact Mr S may be experiencing problems managing his money. Because of 
this she thought that further checks should have taken place and that had these happened 
she said they would have shown Mr S was making use of other short term loan providers. 
She said Mr S financial situation didnt appear to improve significantly over the period of the 
loans and thought all four loans should be upheld.
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It didnt accept that the level of other 
outstanding loans compared to Mr S income showed he was struggling to manage his 
money. It noted the amount could include a range of lending and that its credit check 
showed he only had one short term loan outstanding at the time the loans were provided. It 
explained that Mr S repaid the first two loans early and loans 3 and 4 on time and that there 
were gaps in his borrowing. It noted that bank statements had been provided to this service 
but said its lending decision was based on the information gathered at the time of the loans.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
The checks carried out before the first loan was provided were reasonable and these 
suggested the loan repayments were affordable.
Mr S repaid loan 1 early and took out a second loan just over two weeks later. The 
credit check suggested he had one other short term loan outstanding and didnt raise 
issues that I thought meant further verification should have taken place. As the loan 
repayments appeared affordable and as Mr S had repaid his previous loan early, I 
didnt find I had enough to say that this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mr S repaid loan 2 early and took out a third loan around two months later. Again, the 
credit search suggested Mr S had one other short term loan outstanding at the time 
and didnt raise any other concerns. As this was still only the third loan in the lending 
chain; noting the repayment amounts compared to Mr S declared income; and taking 
into account his previous repayment history; I thought the checks were proportionate. 
As the checks suggested the loan was affordable I didnt find that I had enough to 
uphold this loan.
Mr S fourth and final loan was taken out a few days after loan 3 was repaid. This 
loan was for a much larger amount and was repayable over a longer term. While I 
noted a longer term spread the repayment amounts it also meant that Mr S needed 
to be able to maintain his repayments over 12 months. Given this was Mr S fourth 
loan and noting the size and term of the loan and the size of the repayments 
compared to Mr S income, I thought further checks should have taken place before 
this loan was provided to ensure it was sustainably affordable.
Had further checks taken place I found that Mr Lender would have seen that Mr S 
had short term loans outstanding with other providers at the time. This combined with 
Mr S repayment history on loan 3 (on which there were two deferrals) I thought 
should have raised concerns that Mr S was struggling to manage his money and that 
it was unlikely that this loan was sustainably affordable.
I thought this complaint should be upheld in regard to loan 4.
Mr S accepted my provisional decision. Mr Lender confirmed it had no further information to 
provide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, we've set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.It is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish whether 
Mr S could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Having considered the evidence, and as I set out in my provisional decision, I do not think 
that I have enough evidence to say that loans 1 to 3 shouldnt have been provided. However, 
I think that further checks were required before loan 4 was provided. Had these happened 
Mr Lender would have realised that Mr S had other short term loans outstanding and this, 
combined with his repayment history on the previous loan, should have raised concerns 
about whether Mr S was managing his money. Given this I do not think that loan 4 should 
have been considered sustainably affordable.
I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 4.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr S after loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should now:
refund Mr S all interest and charges paid on loan 4 along with interest calculated at 
8% simple a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement*; andremove any adverse information about loan 4 from Mr S credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited trading as 
Mr Lender should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman