DRN-3596389
The complaint
Mr S, who is represented by a third party, says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) 
irresponsibly lent to him. He has requested that interest and late payment charges he paid 
on his account from October 2016 be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a shopping account that Studio Retail provided to Mr S in October 
2016 with a starting credit limit of £100. 
Studio Retail said it gave Mr S a low credit limit and that he only made two purchases 
without making any payment. The outstanding debt on both accounts was eventually sold 
on to a third party in June 2017 after the account was defaulted. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining why I didnt intend to uphold any part of this 
complaint on 30 May 2022. I set out an extract below:
Studio Retail says it acted as a responsible lender when opening Mr Ss account. Whilst our 
adjudicator agreed, she thought that Studio Retail should have taken steps not to add late 
fees and interest to his account once it had been frozen. I dont agree with our adjudicators 
view about adding late fees and interest and therefore set out my reasons below. 
When Studio Retail opened Mr Ss account it carried out a credit check. Having reviewed the 
available information about Mr Ss financial situation, I dont think theres enough to suggest 
that it was unreasonable for Studio Retail to have approved the account opening, especially 
given the relatively low credit limit that was set. It doesnt look as if Studio Retail asked Mr S 
about his income, although if it had it may have helped it begin to build a picture of Mr Ss 
financial circumstances. 
Our adjudicator explained why she thought Studio Retail shouldnt have provided Mr S with 
any further credit from 29 December 2016. Studio Retail didnt agree. It said it froze Mr Ss 
account after hed failed to make his first monthly payment, with no further purchases being 
allowed. It also said that as Mr S had made purchases on his account that came to a total of 
£84.95, and had not then made any payments, the late fees and interest charges that were 
applied to Mr Ss account took it above the credit limit. Studio Retail also says it made 
attempts to contact Mr S and offer assistance but was unable to do so. 
Having looked at the brief pattern of Mr Ss lending history with Studio Retail, I dont 
currently agree with our adjudicators finding. Ive kept in mind that, having opened an 
account with a relatively low credit limit, Mr S made purchases but did not go on to make 
any payments to his account. Studio Retail then went on to send Mr S a number of 
payment reminders. And from what Ive seen and been told, Mr S didnt contact Studio 
Retail to let them know about his situation. Had that happened, Studio Retail would have 
then been in a position to have considered taking further appropriate action beyond 
freezing the account, such as waiving late fees and interest. 
It follows that I dont think Studio Retail acted unfairly in the actions it took. So I dont 
currently consider that Studio Retail treated Mr S unfairly or that it needs to do anything 
more to put things right.
The third party representing Mr S acknowledged receiving the provisional decision and said 
they would forward it to their client an get back to us as soon as possible. The deadline for 
providing any response was 27 June 2022 which is now some time ago,  but there has been 
no further response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Given that neither party has sent me any further evidence or information for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my finding that Studio Retail did not act unfairly. I 
therefore dont consider that Studio Retail treated Mr S unfairly or that it needs to do 
anything more to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman