The complaint
Mr J complains about how Assurant General Insurance Limited dealt with his mobile phone 
insurance claim. My references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
Mr J has mobile phone insurance through his bank account. The insurer is Assurant.
Mr J lost his mobile phone at a UK airport while going on trip abroad. A couple of days into 
the trip, on 15 May, he tried to register a claim on-line but had problems doing so. When he 
returned home on 20 May he called Assurant who agreed he could make a claim over the 
phone.
Assurant asked Mr J to provide documents in support of his claim and told him his claim was 
being looked by its higher assessment team. Assurant accepted the claim on 24 June. It 
paid Mr J £25 compensation for his distress and inconvenience caused by the problems he 
had trying to register his claim on-line, which it deducted from the £100 claim excess.
Mr J complained to us. He said Assurant took too long to assess his claim and the delay cost 
him £1,000 as his business contacts were on the phone and he wasnt able to do his normal 
business. He also says Assurant should have asked him for all the documents it wanted at 
the same time. 
Our investigator thought Assurant had reasonably asked Mr J for more information but 
should have asked for the information at the same time. He said Assurant should pay Mr J 
additional £75 compensation, so £100 in total.
Assurant disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said proof of travel wasnt 
usually needed from a consumer so wouldnt be asked for when Mr J initially made the 
claim. It thought £25 compensation was fair.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold this complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether Assurants £25 compensation payment was fair and reasonable, 
and I think it was. Ill explain why.
Assurants records show that on 15 May Mr J registered his phone on the policy multiple 
times but he was unable to log a claim. Assurant accepts the error was with its on-line 
system.
DRN-1971967On 20 May Mr J called Assurant and told it about the problems he had trying to register the 
claim on-line. Assurant registered the claim verbally and asked him to send proof of 
ownership and barring, which Mr J provided. Thats standard information for an insurer to 
ask for when a loss/theft claim is made and Assurant acted reasonably in asking for the 
information.
Assurants records show that on 22 May it told Mr J its higher assessment team would be 
validating information it had about the phone with third parties and it couldnt provide a 
timeframe for the assessment. So Assurant warned Mr J it wasnt a straightforward claim 
assessment and I think he could have made necessary arrangements to obtain his business 
contacts information knowing the assessment may take some time.
On 6 June Assurant asked Mr J for proof of travel to show the dates he left and returned to 
the UK. As Assurants investigation showed Mr Js mobile phone was being used with a SIM 
card from the country where he travelled to Assurant reasonably asked for that information.
I accept travel information wouldnt be standard information Assurant would ask for at the 
start of a claim. So I dont think Assurant did anything wrong in not asking for the information 
at the same time it asked for proof of ownership and barring information. 
I dont doubt Mr J was inconvenienced and stressed at not having his phone for about six 
weeks. But I think Assurant had reasonable concerns for the claim to be passed to its higher 
assessment team and inevitably that takes longer for claims to be assessed. Thats 
particularly so when Assurant has to rely on third parties providing information. Ive no 
evidence that Assurant took an unreasonably long time to assess Mr J's claim in the 
circumstances.
There was a five day lapse between Mr J trying to make his claim on- line and him calling 
Assurant to register the claim. Mr J was on a trip during those five days. But I think its more 
likely than not that it would have been possible for him to have called Assurant sooner to 
register the claim. It would have been reasonable for him to do so particularly if his business 
depended on him having a phone.
Even if Mr J couldnt phone Assurant during that time the policy specifically excludes cover 
for loss of profit or loss of opportunity. So even if Mr J did lose some business theres no 
cover under the policy.
I think Assurants payment of £25 compensation was a reasonable amount for Mr Js 
distress and inconvenience it caused by the initial delay until 20 May.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Assurant didnt respond. Mr J in effect said I was biased towards the insurer and hed been 
without a mobile phone for four months because Assurant thought hed sold the phone 
overseas.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We are an independent and impartial service set up to resolve disputes between consumers 
and financial organisations. I make my decisions about whats a fair outcome based on the 
evidence I have. Mr J hasnt provided any evidence in response to my provisional decision 
thats made me change my mind.The evidence I have shows a new phone was sent to Mr J about six weeks after he reported 
his original phone as lost. Ive explained why that timescale was reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ive no evidence that Assurant took four months to assess the claim.
Ive also explained Assurants investigation showed Mr Js mobile phone was being used 
with a SIM card from the country where he travelled to. So it was understandably concerned 
and reasonably asked Mr J for his travel information.
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman