DRN-4213434
The complaint
Mr M complains that Morses Club PLC irresponsibly gave him a fixed sum loan agreement 
he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In October 2022, Mr M applied for a personal loan with Morses. He borrowed £980 which 
was to be repaid by 52 weekly repayments of £36.75. Mr M complained in early 2023, to say 
that the loan should not have been approved as it was unaffordable to him from the outset.  
Morses didnt think it had acted unfairly in lending to Mr M. It said it had completed 
appropriate affordability checks which didnt reveal any concerns about Mr Ms ability to 
repay the borrowing. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Morses had 
completed proportionate affordability checks before lending and that these checks didnt 
reveal any concerns. For this reason, she didnt think Morses had acted unfairly in lending to 
Mr M. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said that Morses had told him in the application phone call to 
understate his expenditure to make the loan appear more affordable. He said at the time he 
was desperate for the money. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to lending to Mr M, Morses needed to complete proportionate affordability checks. 
What is proportionate will vary with each lending decision. In deciding what is proportionate, 
Morses will have needed to take into consideration things such as (but not limited to): the 
size of the loan, the size of the repayments, the total repayable, the cost of credit and Mr Ms 
circumstances. 
Morses doesnt have a record of the phone call that took place between Mr M and Morses as 
it says these calls arent recorded. Im also mindful that Mr M says he was desperate for the 
loan at the time. So, based on the available evidence Im not persuaded that it is more likely 
than not that Morses told Mr M to understate his expenditure.  
As part of the application, Mr M declared he had a weekly income of £255 and a weekly 
expenditure of £192. Morses says it used credit reference agency data to check Mr Ms 
income. Ive not seen the results of those checks, but as Mr M doesnt appear to have 
disputed that figure, Ive seen no reason to question it. 
Morses also completed a credit check which showed that Mr M only had one outstanding 
credit commitment and was repaying a court debt and that these were taken into 
consideration in his regular expenditure. I dont think there was anything in these checks 
which would have caused Morses concern about Mr Ms ability to repay its loan. Mr M has 
also provided us a copy of his credit report and this shows he held a number of current 
accounts which were in a positive balance and had settled other loans a few months before 
taking out this loan. All of this I think would have given Morses confidence that Mr Ms 
financial circumstances appeared to be stable. For these reasons, I think it completed 
proportionate affordability checks and it made a fair lending decision based on what it could 
see about Mr Ms circumstances. 
I note Mr M says he was gambling heavily and he had no disposable income. While I accept 
that may have been the case, I dont think its fair or reasonable to say that Morses ought to 
have realised this. This is because I dont think it would have been proportionate in the 
specific circumstances of this case for Morses to have done such detailed and thorough 
checks that would have been needed in order to uncover Mr Ms gambling.  
If Mr M is struggling financially he should discuss his circumstances with Morses. I remind 
Morses of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly if he is experiencing financial difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman