DRN-1068859
The complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a store card. 
The insurer, now AXA France IARD (AXA), has accepted responsibility for the sale.
What happened
In 1997 Mrs B applied for a store card. At the same time, she was sold a PPI policy. The 
cost of the PPI was charged to the card, so she'd repay the extra cost with interest in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mrs B thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld. Mrs B didn't 
agree with the adjudicator. The complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
I've decided this policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mrs B knew she was buying the policy. Mrs B has told us that 
she took the store card because she was told she'd get 10% off her purchase - but PPI was 
not mentioned. I've thought about what Mrs B has said alongside the other information I've 
seen about the sale.
AXA has sent us a copy of the application form for the store card. I see that to buy PPI Mrs B 
had to complete a separate section of the application form. This was headed "Account 
Cover" - and Mrs B needed to tick a box labelled "Tick here" beneath the statement "Yes, I 
would like to protect my Account with Account Cover (subject to eligibility). Please debit my 
Account with the relevant monthly premium until further notice."
This box is ticked. And Mrs B has signed immediately next to this. So although Mrs B thinks 
PPI was never mentioned, I think it's more likely that Mrs B knew that she was buying PPI 
and chose to buy it - even if Mrs B doesn't now remember this.
Axa didn't recommend the policy - so it didn't need to check if the policy was right for Mrs B. 
But it did need to make sure Mrs B had the information she needed to work out for herself if 
she wanted it.
It's possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should have 
been. But Mrs B chose to buy the policy - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. I acknowledge that 
Mrs B got sick pay from her employer - but she's told us this fell to half her usual pay after six months. This policy would repay 15% of the outstanding balance each month Mrs B was 
off work until the balance was repaid in full.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I don't 
think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
I've considered the other points Mrs B has raised, but these don't change my conclusions.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman