DRN-3228277
The complaint
Mr A complains about the charges for excess mileage and damage that Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, has made after he 
voluntarily terminated the hire purchase agreement under which a car had been supplied to 
him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 December 2021 in which I described 
what had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mr A under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Finance that he signed in May 2013. The car was nearly three years old and 
had been driven for 24,986 miles. It had a price of £18,000 and the total amount 
payable was shown on the agreement as £23,373.12. Mr A agreed to make 48 
monthly payments of £318.19 for the car to be supplied to him. If he wanted to 
purchase the car at the end of the agreement hed have to pay an optional purchase 
payment of £7,825 and a purchase activation fee of £95.
The agreement said that Mr A had the right to terminate the agreement and that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance would be entitled to the return of the car and half of the total 
amount payable under the agreement (which was shown on the agreement as being 
£11,686.56). Mr A voluntarily terminated the agreement in March 2017 and the car 
was collected and inspected by a third party in April 2017. The cars mileage was 
recorded on the vehicle condition report that was prepared by the third party as 
92,942 and it identified damage to the bumpers, a fog light and three alloy wheels. 
The report recommended a charge for the damage of £571.87. Mercedes-Benz 
Finance sent Mr A an invoice later that month for the damage charge of £571.87 and 
an excess mileage charge of £3,019.25 based on an excess mileage of 27,956 miles.
He complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance about the charges and said that hed 
been advised that following voluntary termination, providing that reasonable care had 
been taken of the car, there would be nothing further to pay under sections 99 and 
100 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mercedes-Benz Finance said that it was 
entitled to charge for excess mileage and that under the terms of the Consumer 
Credit Act, it was not deemed reasonable. It also said that the car wasnt returned in 
the condition outlined in its vehicle return standards but it had issued a credit note for 
the charge for the damage to two of the alloy wheel as a warranty issue had been 
identified  which reduced the total charge due from Mr A to £3,421.12.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with its response and complained to this service. He says that it 
should cancel the excess mileage charge and reconsider the charge that its applied 
for damage to the car.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows:
The agreement says:
You have the right to end this agreement. To do so you should write to the 
person you make your payments to. We will then be entitled to the return of 
the goods and to half the total amount payable under the agreement, that is 
£11,686.56. If you have already paid at least this amount to us plus any 
overdue instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will 
not have to pay any more.
The agreement also says, under a heading which says Default Charges:
If you do not exercise your right to purchase the vehicle (including if the 
agreement terminates early for any reason), an excess distance charge will 
be payable at the rate of 9.00 pence (plus VAT) for each Mile, by which the 
total distance travelled by the vehicle at the end of the period of hire exceeds 
the allowed distance, calculated at the rate of 10000 Miles per year, pro-rated 
for part years (see Condition 12).
Condition 12 sets out more information about the excess mileage charge.
Sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit Act set out the right that a consumer 
has to voluntary terminate their hire purchase agreement and the liability that is due 
on termination. The terms of the agreement, including those relating to any excess 
mileage charges, are required to comply with those sections. Section 99 says:
(1) At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire 
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall 
be entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled 
or authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any 
liability under the agreement which has accrued before the termination .
So any liabilities which accrue prior to termination are not affected by the termination. 
If the excess mileage charge has accrued before the voluntarily termination of the 
agreement, I consider that it would be consistent with the provisions of section 99 for 
Mercedes-Benz Finance to make that charge to Mr A.
But I consider that the excess mileage charge accrues after the agreement has been 
terminated. The agreement says that the excess mileage charge applies  If you do 
not exercise your right to purchase the vehicle (including if the agreement terminates 
early for any reason) and the excess mileage charge is then calculated on the basis 
of the cars mileage after it has been returned  so it would only be known after the 
agreement had been terminated. For these reasons, I consider that Mercedes-Benz 
Finance cant charge for excess mileage in these circumstances under section 99.
Section 100 says:
(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement 
is terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the 
agreement provides for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any 
payment, to pay to the creditor the amount (if any) by which one-half of the 
total price exceeds the aggregate of the sums paid and the sums due in 
respect of the total price immediately before the termination 
(3) If in any action the court is satisfied that a sum less than the amount 
specified in subsection (1) would be equal to the loss sustained by the creditor in consequence of the termination of the agreement by the debtor, 
the court may make an order for the payment of that sum in lieu of the 
amount specified in subsection (1).
(4) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the 
goods or land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased 
by the sum required to recompense the creditor for that contravention .
Section 100(1) allows Mercedes-Benz Finance, in effect, to charge Mr A for half of 
the total price of the car under the agreement so, if hed already paid that amount, he 
wouldnt have to pay anything more. Section 100(4) allows for the amount to be 
increased if Mr A had failed to take reasonable care of the car.
Under the agreement, the requirement for compensation to be paid because the car 
isnt returned  in good condition, repair and working order  is separate from any 
requirement pay for excess mileage. Im not persuaded that exceeding a mileage 
limit would be considered to be failing to take reasonable care of the car or that any 
excess mileage charge would be included in the total price of the car. I dont consider 
that the provisions in the agreement that refer to excess mileage charges would 
reasonably be considered to be payable because Mr A had failed to take reasonable 
care of the car and I dont consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance can charge for 
excess mileage in these circumstances under section 100(4).
Section 173 of the Consumer Credit Act says that a term in an agreement is void to 
the extent that its inconsistent with a provision in the act. For the reasons that Ive 
set out above, I dont consider that the provisions of the agreement concerning 
excess mileage charges on a voluntary termination of the agreement are consistent 
with the protections of the Consumer Credit Act. I consider that those provisions are 
void to the extent that they relate to excess mileage charges when the agreement is 
voluntarily terminated.
Mr A has paid at least £11,686.56 to Mercedes-Benz Finance and I dont consider 
that its allowed to also charge him for excess mileage in these circumstances. Even 
if Im mistaken about this, I still consider that Mr As complaint about the excess 
mileage charges should be upheld because the agreement isnt as clear about those 
charges as it should have been.
It's clear from Mr As communications with Mercedes-Benz Finance that he 
considered that his liability on voluntary termination of the agreement would be half of 
the total price and that he wouldnt have to pay for any excess mileage. I consider 
that an underlying lack of clarity in the agreement about the cost of voluntarily 
terminating it is also an important consideration as to whether its fair and reasonable 
for a charge for any excess mileage to be made in these circumstances.
Ive considered the relevant provisions of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) including:
CONC 2.3.2 which says: A firm must explain the key features of a regulated 
credit agreement to enable the customer to make an informed choice as 
required by CONC 4.2.5 R (adequate explanations); and
CONC 4.2.5 which says:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must:
a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the matters referred 
to in (2) in order to place the customer in a position to assess whether the 
agreement is adapted to the customers needs and financial situation; ...(2) The matters referred to in (1)(a) are:
a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided 
under the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the 
amount can be determined, in total under the agreement;
c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would 
have a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the 
customer is unlikely to foresee.
Ive also considered principle 7 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles for 
Businesses which says: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
I dont consider that the hire purchase agreement is as clear as it should have been 
or that its consistent with the CONC provisions and the principles for business for the 
following reasons:
one section of the agreement sets out in a box headed Termination: Your 
rights specific wording that Mercedes-Benz Finance was required to include 
in the agreement which says, in effect, that if Mr A had paid at least half the 
total amount payable under the agreement, he wouldnt have to pay any more 
 and theres no further comment in that section about excess mileage 
charges;
the excess mileage charge is set out under a heading Default Charges but I 
dont consider that exceeding the contractual mileage would be a breach of 
contract as the contract specifically included a charge for exceeding that limit 
and I dont consider that excess mileage charges would be properly 
considered to be default charges;
condition 8 of the agreement deals with Early Termination by you but 
doesnt specifically refer to a charge for excess mileage if a customer should 
terminate the agreement early and return the car  but it does refer to another 
condition which deals with additional charges regarding the condition of the 
car;
condition 8 lists what Mr A would need to do and pay when terminating early 
and reiterates that he must comply with the terms of the statutory notice - 
one of which is that he wont need to pay more than £11,686.56;
condition 12 of the agreement refers to the calculation of an excess distance 
charge in circumstances where the car is returned  including early 
termination - but I consider that theres a lack of clarity in the agreement 
about Mr As liability if he voluntarily terminated it and I dont consider that the 
terms of the agreement are consistent with the provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Act;
condition 12 is not well signposted in respect of early termination, and only 
appears to be cross referenced in the section headed Default Charges;
the right to early terminate the agreement and the maximum liability for it are 
clearly set out on page 2 of the agreement in a bold box but the terms relating 
to charges for excess mileage, which might affect that liability on early 
termination, are not given equivalent prominence and I consider that theyre 
not clearly and consistently set out or referred to; andcondition 12 is included in the terms and conditions of the agreement and is 
not signposted in a way that would have naturally drawn Mr As attention to it 
if he was intending to return the car early.
I consider that the lack of clarity in the agreement about excess mileage charges on 
voluntary termination could result in a significant adverse effect on Mr A in a way that 
he was unlikely to foresee. I dont consider that he was properly or adequately 
informed that an excess mileage charge would increase his liability beyond the 
£11,686.56 payable on voluntary termination of his agreement. I dont consider that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance has met its obligations under CONC 2.3.2 and CONC 4.2.5.
For reasons similar to those set out in the bullet points above, I dont consider that 
the agreement is clear, fair and not misleading - so I dont consider that Mercedes-
Benz Finance has complied with principle 7 of the Principles for Businesses. I 
consider that the lack of clarity in the agreement is likely to have prejudiced Mr A 
financially and I dont consider that its fair or reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance 
to charge him for excess mileage in these circumstances.
Mr A has also complained about the charges that Mercedes-Benz Finance has made 
for damage to the car. It has agreed to issue a credit note for damage to two of the 
alloy wheels, leaving charges of £130 for a gouge to the rear bumper, £105 for a dent 
to the front bumper, £81.87 for a broken fog light and £85 for refurbishment of a 
scratched alloy wheel. That totals £401.87. The vehicle condition report describes 
that damage and Mercedes-Benz Finance has provided photos showing that damage 
to the car.
The agreement says:
You will maintain the vehicle in a condition which is consistent with the 
attached Vehicle Return Standards which form part of this agreement; and
If the Vehicle is not in good condition, repair and working order when it is 
returned to us  you will have to compensate us for any loss that we suffer in 
such circumstances .
I consider that the damage shown in the photos is more than would be considered to 
be acceptable damage under the vehicle return standards and is more than would 
reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear. I consider that its fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances for Mercedes-Benz Finance to charge Mr A 
£401.87 for that damage. 
I understand that Mr A hasnt paid the charges of £3,421.12 to Mercedes-Benz 
Finance. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to now remove the excess 
mileage charge of £3,019.25 from his account, but Im not persuaded that it would be 
fair or reasonable for me to require it to remove the remaining balance of £401.87 
that its charged him for the damage to the car. If Mercedes-Benz Finance has 
recorded any adverse information on Mr As credit file relating to the charges, I find 
that it would also be fair and reasonable for it to remove that information.
Subject to any further comments from Mr A or from Mercedes-Benz Finance my provisional 
decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint. Neither Mr A nor Mercedes-Benz 
Finance has responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr A nor Mercedes-Benz Finance has responded to my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to change the findings that I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to take the actions 
described in my provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint in part and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1. Remove the excess mileage charge of £3,019.25 from Mr As account.
2. Remove any adverse information about the charges that its recorded on Mr As 
credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman