The
 complaint  
Mr
 O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis -sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  
alongside a mortgage in 1997. 
What
 happened  
In 1997
 Mr O applied for a mortgage. At the same time, he bought a PPI policy. The PPI cost  
£9.09 a month, and would have paid his monthly mortgage payments for up to 12 months if  
he was off work sick or lost his job.  
Mr
 O thinks the policy was mis -sold.  
Our
 adjudicator looked at Mr O's complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld.  
Mr
 O didn't agree. So the complaint has been referred to me.  
What
 Ive decided  and why  
I
ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
We'
ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and  
I've taken this into account in deciding Mr O's case.  
I'
ve decided the policy wasn't mis -sold. I'll explain why.  
I'
ve first considered whether Lloyds explained the policy was optional. Mr O says that i t was  
recommended he take the PPI policy during the application, but he wasn't aware it had been  
applied to his account. And he says he didn't know PPI was an optional product that could  
have been refused. So I've thought about this alongside the other information I've seen  
about the sale.  
Lloy
ds has sent me a copy of the application form for the mortgage. I see that to apply for 
PPI there was a separate section called "Applying for TSB MortgageSure". Mr O had to tick  
a box to say whether he wanted the cover. I see the box labelled "Yes" has been ticked.  
There was an equally prominent box labelled "No". Mr O also had to answer questions to  
check that the policy would cover him. I see that the PPI was also mentioned on the  
mortgage offer Lloyds sent Mr O following the application. So based on what I've seen, I 
think Lloyds made it clear that Mr O had a choice and he chose to buy it. 
Lloy
ds advised Mr O to buy the cover, so it had to check that the PPI was right for them.  
Based on what I've seen of his circumstances, I think it was. Mr O doesn't appear to have  
been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - and he seems to have  
DRN-1041001had a need for the cover. Mr O has told us he wouldn't get more than statutory sick pay if he  
was off work sick , and that he didn't have any savings.  
It
's possible the information Lloyds gave Mr O about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it  
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it  
was affordable. So I don't think better information about the PPI would have put him off  
taking out the cover.  
I'
ve thought about everything else Mr O has said, including what he's said about the times in 
2004 that he was made redundant or was off work sick but didn't claim on the policy. I've  
already explained why I'm satisfied Mr O knew he'd bought PPI in 1997. So this doesn't  
change my conclusions.  
My f
inal decision  
I don
't uphold this  complaint.  
Under
 the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or  
reject my decision before 6 November 2019.  
Edw
ard Hardman  
Ombudsman  