DRN-3023537
The complaint
Mr D, on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs W complains about the poor level of service 
provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Firstly, I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or 
to punish them. I appreciate Mr D considers I should investigate the banks handling of the 
matter and the 16 questions he has set out in the estates complaint. However, that is not 
within my remit.
I can only consider if the bank has made any errors in dealing with the estate and if those 
errors resulted in a loss to the estate. This service can investigate a complaint brought by an 
estate, but it cannot award compensation to it for trouble or upset for reasons I will explain 
below.
This service has considered the handling of the estates request for details of the money 
owed to Clydesdale and I can see the process took some five months. The bank says this 
falls within its permitted timescales. I can also see that Mr D had to push for matters to be 
resolved and I have some sympathy with him in that it would have been better had the 
matter been settled earlier. 
As Mr D has said there has been no financial loss to the estate as a result of the banks 
actions. That leaves the issue of compensation of trouble and upset. However, the rules 
governing the awarding of compensation are quite narrow. We can only tell a business to 
pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced by its customer  not by a third party. 
This means that we cannot award compensation to executors who have brought a complaint 
on behalf of an estate. I recognise the family of the late Mrs W have felt let down by the 
bank, but the complaint is brought by the estate and it cannot suffer trouble and upset. I 
appreciate Mr D and his family will be disappointed by my decision, but I do not have the 
power to do as he wishes..
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
W to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman