DRN-3436062
The complaint
Mrs X complains about the service she received when she made a claim on her Home 
Emergency insurance policy held with U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
What happened
Mrs X called on 9 July 2021 to make a claim under her UKI home emergency cover due to 
what she thought was a mice infestation. UKI appointed a claims handler (CET) to handle 
the claim. UKI is the insurer here and responsible for this complaint. But, as it was CET 
which carried out most of the work and responded to Mrs Xs complaint, Ill mainly refer to 
CET throughout the decision. 
Mrs X says she told CET she had a phobia of mice and that seeing another would adversely 
affect her health, stressing the importance of this being resolved as quickly as possible. An 
engineer attended the day after she made the claim to set traps and arranged to return a 
week later. The follow up appointment was delayed by two days. Further investigation was 
required, and numerous follow up appointments were necessary. At one point, the claim was 
accidentally closed rather than escalated. And Mrs X says she was unhappy with one 
particular engineer. She didnt like the way he spoke to her or the way he made her feel. She 
asked CET to make sure he didnt return. 
I wont repeat in detail here all of the dates, but it isnt disputed that a number of these 
appointments were either missed or had to be rescheduled and the claim took longer to be 
resolved than it shouldve.
Mrs X complained to CET. CET accepted that it couldve provided better service and initially 
offered Mrs X £1,000 compensation which she emailed to accept. However, CET had made 
an error in its response to Mrs X  it had meant to offer her £100 rather than £1,000. Four 
days after Mrs X accepted the offer of what she thought was £1,000, it replied to her email 
telling her this was a mistake and it would be processing a payment of £100. Mrs X was 
unhappy with this and referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator thought that £500 compensation was a fair amount in the circumstances. 
Mrs X accepted this, but CET didnt. It offered £400 which Mrs X didnt accept. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mrs X is very upset by the experience shes had since making this claim. And CET 
accepts that it couldve provided better customer service and has caused some delays. The 
sequence of events is not disputed here. Whats disputed is how much compensation Mrs X 
should receive. She agrees that the £500 our investigator has recommended is fair, whereas 
CET thinks that £400 is a fair amount.
Ultimately, this comes down to a dispute over a difference of £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. Payments of compensation like this are 
by their very nature subjective and a matter of opinion. I dont personally consider there is a 
significant difference between what CET has offered and what our Investigator has 
recommended. 
When thinking about the level of compensation that is appropriate in these particular 
circumstances, Ive considered that:
a number of appointments werent attended or had to be rescheduled. This meant 
that Mrs X had to take time off work and wait in for appointments which werent kept. 
the matter took a number of weeks to resolve and this was clearly longer than it 
shouldve taken had it not been for the cancelled or rescheduled appointments.
the mice problem wasnt resolved for a number of weeks and rather than escalate 
this, CET closed down the claim causing further delays.
Mrs X made CET aware of her severe mice phobia early on. And this phobia 
wouldve increased the impact of the various other mistakes made by CET and its 
contractors. The mice had been spotted in her kitchen which she says meant she 
was scared to go in there for food and eat readymade sandwiches for a long time to 
avoid going into the kitchen. 
Mrs X has also said shes very unhappy with the way she was spoken to and treated by 
some of the CET contractors. Shes given detailed and consistent testimony on this, and 
CET hasnt provided anything to contradict what shes said, so Im willing to accept her 
version of events here.
Of course some of the upset has been caused by the mice infestation. And that isnt the fault 
of CET. However, for the reasons set out above, CET couldve resolved things quicker, and 
this wouldve certainly lessened the impact on Mrs X.
Ive thought carefully about this matter and considered all of the issues Ive detailed above. 
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that £500 is fair compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience this matter has caused to Mrs X by CETs handling of her insurance 
claim.  
Putting things right
U K Insurance Limited should pay Mrs X £500 compensation to resolve this complaint. If its 
already paid the £100 it initially offered, it may deduct this from the amount it should now pay 
her.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs X to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman