DRN-3780079
The complaint
Mr E complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc (SA) increased his buildings insurance 
premium every year when it could have supplied him with cheaper cover.
What happened
Mr E took out buildings insurance as a condition of his mortgage in 1996. His policy was 
taken over by SA in 2001 and it automatically renewed each year until Mr E cancelled it in 
2020. 
Mr E had a change in his personal circumstances around this time and examined his 
financial outgoings carefully. He found he was able to find similar cover elsewhere for much 
less than he was already paying. When he queried this with SA., it offered to swap him to a 
similar policy it already offered at a cheaper price.
Mr E is unhappy about being overcharged for a long period of time. He asks for 
compensation for the amount he feels he has paid over the market rate he thinks he should 
have been charged.
SA looked into his complaint and said that it sent Mr E an invite to renew every year and that 
he didnt have to renew with it. SA also said that the renewal letter offered Mr E the 
opportunity to contact it and discuss options, such as changing to a different product or 
obtain a discount. It says Mr E didnt contact him to discuss any of these options. SA said it 
had calculated the premium correctly and wouldnt provide a refund or compensation. It 
pointed out that Mr Es premiums were in line with how it priced its policies, and sometimes 
below, so the premium was in line with how it viewed the risk.
Mr E brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into his complaint and 
upheld it. She thought SA had charged Mr E more than it ought to have done and agreed 
that SA should refund some of the premiums. She thought SA shouldve noticed Mr E wasnt 
engaging with it at renewal indicating that he was an inert customer.
She recommended that it refund the difference between the 2015-18 premium he paid and 
SAs target premium, plus interest on the difference.
Mr E agreed with our investigators view, but SA did not. SA told this service that Mr E had 
said he didnt shop around because he was too busy, until his change of circumstances in 
2020. SA said this meant that Mr E had engaged with the renewal process. 
It asked for the view to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. I 
thought it was fair to ask SA to refund Mr E for the overpayments hed made on his 
premiums dating back to 2007.
I havent included the text of my provisional decision here because it focused on the method 
of calculation of the refund I proposed. This information has since changed, and Ive 
included the revised version below.
Responses to my provisional decision
SA responded and confirmed it agreed with the principle of my provisional decision. But it 
also provided some further information about the way It had calculated Mr Es policy 
premiums, which has slightly changed my approach to the calculation. Mr E has agreed with 
SAs revised information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding this complaint, and Ill explain why.
Our role isnt to tell a business what it should charge for the insurance it offers. To do so 
would be interfering with their commercial judgement. But we can check to make sure a 
business has treated customers fairly with the insurance and price theyve offered. We want 
to make sure someone hasnt been treated differently because of how they have or havent 
engaged with the cost of their insurance over time.
When a consumer chooses not to shop around for a policy each year, even when their policy 
has significantly increased in price, it is commonly referred to as consumer inertia. In Mr Es 
case, I think the evidence available shows that this is likely to have happened. SA should 
have made sure it was treating him fairly by not increasing the premium simply because Mr 
E wasnt engaging with it.
SA has said Mr E didnt shop around because he was too busy, but it seems to me that its 
not fair of SA to charge him a higher premium simply because he was time-poor. 
It seems to me that Mr E was inert and not engaged on the price he was being charged by 
SA. And businesses should be able to demonstrate that a consumer hasnt been treated 
differently because of their lack of engagement. 
From the evidence provided, Im not persuaded SA has treated Mr E fairly throughout the 
lifetime of his policy. I say this as Ive not been provided with anything to demonstrate why 
the price has changed as it has during this time.
In Mr Es case, I cant consider his complaint against SA before 2001, because SA only 
became his insurer in that year.
When a consumer hasnt been engaged with their insurer at renewal for a number of years, 
we think its reasonable to say they were inert. Ive looked at Mr Es premiums from the time 
SA took over the underwriting of his policy to see whether I think he has lost out as a result 
of not engaging.
Having done so, I think the pricing of Mr Es policy from 2001-2006 shows that the premium 
increases were fair and reasonable. 
But Ive looked carefully at Mr Es pricing journey from 2007 and asked SA to explain why 
the price continued to increase as it did. It hasnt been able to explain these increases 
satisfactorily and in the absence of this, I dont think its fair to say he was being treated 
fairly.Ive looked at what Mr E paid each year from 2007 to when he cancelled his policy in 2020. 
During that time, SA used different methods to calculate the premium it charged Mr E and I 
have divided up this period into sections, 2007-2014, 2015-18 and 2019-2020, to help me to 
understand what Mr E was charged.
What Im not able to do is estimate how much Mr E might have paid if hed have engaged 
with the insurance marketplace and obtained a new quote each year. But what I can do is 
look at what Mr E paid SA at each renewal and examine how that price has changed each 
year. 
Prices have changed over time in insurance with insurance premium tax (IPT) and the 
changes to this being passed on as its increased. These will be relevant to Mr E with some 
significant changes over the time he held his policy. But these alone do not explain why Mr 
Es price increased as it did between 2007 and 2014. 
Mr E wasnt engaging with his renewal and this was evident by 2007. SA havent been able 
to demonstrate from this point that the price increases were reflective of a change in risk or 
anything specific to Mr E. So Im not persuaded theyve treated him fairly and Mr E has lost 
out as a result of his lack of engagement. 
For 2015-18 and 2019-20, SA changed the way it worked out whether consumer premiums 
were being charged fairly and it used a target premium figure mentioned above, which is 
an internal benchmark SA use to decide whether its customers have been charged a fair 
price. It means the same set parameters are applied to all customers and its applications 
means Mr E wasnt treated differently because of his lack of engagement.
I can see from SAs evidence that Mr E was charged above this target premium for 2017, 
2018 and 2019, So I require SA to refund his overpayment for those years.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Saint 
Andrews Insurance Plc to:
Refund to Mr E the difference between the premiums he paid each year from 2007-
2014 inclusive, and the premium he paid for 2006, with an adjustment for each year 
to allow for inflation and IPT changes.
Refund to Mr E the difference between the premiums he paid and the target premium 
calculated by SA for the 2017, 2018 and 2019 policy years. 
Pay Mr E 8% simple interest* per annum on these amounts from the date the 
premiums were due to the date the refund is paid.
*If St Andrews Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr E how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr E a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman