DRN-3188436
The complaint
Ms Cs complaint is about advice she was given by Allied Dunbar Assurance plc (which later 
became part of Zurich Assurance Ltd) to transfer the value of her deferred benefits in a 
former employers occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension. 
What happened
The advice Ms C complains about was given in 1988. As part of the industrywide pension 
review set up by the regulator at the time, the Securities and Investment Board, Ms C was 
contacted by Allied Dunbar to review the advice shed received to transfer away from the 
OPS. A loss assessment was undertaken and redress offered. Ms C accepted Allied 
Dunbars offer on 3 October 2000. A lump sum of £16,661 was paid into Ms Cs personal 
pension.  
Ms C, through her representative, complained to Zurich in July 2021. In summary, Ms Cs 
representative said:
Ms C had been advised that the transfer would give her a larger pension income in 
retirement. She had little experience or knowledge of pensions and she accepted the 
advice as being in her best interests. She now receives an annuity of £4,166.52 pa. It 
doesnt increase so its purchasing power is reduced each year by inflation. 
Allied Dunbars representative was bound by the LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit 
Trust Regulatory Organisation) rules. He had common law duties as well. And a duty 
to disclose risks and alternatives to allow informed consent, as confirmed by the 
2015 Supreme Court case of Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board. 
Ms C shouldnt have been exposed to the risks involved in giving up valuable income 
guarantees and inflation protected benefits in favour of a pension linked to the stock 
market. She hadnt been properly informed of the inherent risks in transferring or of 
all the investment costs associated with the recommendation. She shouldnt have 
been advised to transfer out of the OPS. 
The transfer was reviewed in 2000 and the advice was found to be unsuitable and a 
small amount of redress awarded. The review hadnt been carried out in accordance 
with the applicable regulatory standards or requirements. Specifically a retirement 
age of 50 was used and not the normal retirement age for the OPS. Because of that 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys FG/17 guidance should be used to determine 
redress. 
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. It said Ms Cs personal pension had been included as 
part of the industrywide pension review. A loss assessment was undertaken and redress 
paid. 
Zurich noted that Ms Cs representative had suggested the redress calculation had been 
carried out incorrectly as a retirement age of 50 had been used which wasnt the OPS 
normal retirement age. Zurich had reviewed the calculation in the light of Ms Cs 
representatives comments and sought the views of Zurichs actuary. Although the 
calculation shows a selected retirement age of 50, that was simply a fact about the personal 
pension and hadnt been used in the calculation which was done using the normal OPS 
retirement age of 60. No anomalies had been found in the calculation and Zurich was 
satisfied it had been carried out in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time. 
The complaint was referred to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. She said the suitability 
of the advice Ms C had been given had already been reviewed as part of the pension review. 
It had been found that Ms C had suffered a loss and redress had been paid. 
The investigator didnt agree that the redress calculation had been carried out incorrectly. 
She referred to what Zurich had explained  that a retirement age of 50 hadnt been used in 
the redress calculation. It was recorded that the personal pension had been set up with that 
selected retirement age. But the value of the benefits given up in the OPS  and used in the 
redress calculation - was based on the value of the OPS benefits at the normal retirement 
age under the OPS of 60. The investigator didnt see any grounds to require Zurich to review 
matters again.
Ms C didnt accept the investigators view. She requested an ombudsmans decision which, 
as required by law, was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Cs representative has referred to the regulatory and legal position at the time and why 
Allied Dunbar shouldnt have recommended that Ms C transfer her preserved benefits in the 
OPS to a personal pension. I dont disagree that Allied Dunbars representative had 
regulatory and legal duties when advising Ms C in 1988. 
But I dont need to consider the merits  that is the suitability or otherwise of the advice to 
transfer: Zurich doesnt argue that the advice was suitable and, in effect, Allied Dunbar 
conceded, when it undertook its review, that the advice to transfer may not have been 
suitable. Allied Dunbar then went on to undertake a redress calculation which confirmed that 
Ms C had suffered a loss and redress was offered and paid. The complaint is about the 
review that was undertaken and the adequacy or otherwise of the compensation paid. 
Ms C has requested a decision which is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. I agree thats the basis on which Im required by Dispute Resolution (DISP) 3.6.1R to 
determine complaints. And DISP 3.6.4R says that, in considering what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the case, the ombudsman will take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
I think its important not to judge the complaint with the benefit of hindsight but against the 
regulatory background at the time. The pension review was designed to be a one-off 
exercise. It was implemented to rectify widespread mis-selling and to put customers, as far 
as possible, back in the position theyd have been, if they hadnt had poor advice. The 
methodology for putting things right was set by the then regulator. Several assumptions, 
based on what the regulator thought was fair at the time, were used in the redress 
calculations  including the expected future growth rate of the pension funds to produce the 
required benefits at retirement. But, unfortunately, in many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt 
materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, had an impact on the benefits provided 
by the personal pension. It was thought the lump sum compensation paid following the 
review plus the existing value of the pension, would be high enough to match the OPS at 
retirement date. But this hasnt been the case for many consumers. 
But that in itself wont be a reason to redo the review and recalculate compensation. The 
pension review was aimed at drawing a line under the matter with no need to revisit the 
advice again. A business could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that it wouldnt be 
liable for future compensation; and consumers could be reassured that the mis-selling had 
been recognised and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be 
reasonable assumptions and without the need to revisit the matter many years later. 
In 2017 the Financial Conduct Authority issued new guidance  FG17/9. This was 
designed for complaints upheld about OPS transfers received after 3 August 2016 or for 
complaints received before this date that hadnt been settled in full and final settlement 
already. 
It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the pension review period would be 
excluded from the updated guidance. But, after the consultation period, FG17/9 said some 
cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant pension 
transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where the 
particular circumstances of the case were not addressed by those standards. 
Ms Cs representative has argued that the review wasnt done correctly. And so the redress 
should be recalculated using the new FG/17 guidance. Ms C may have accepted Allied 
Dunbars offer in full and final settlement. But, if I thought the redress calculation undertaken 
by Allied Dunbar was flawed, then I could require Zurich to revisit it, and calculate redress 
using the updated guidance. 
But, from what Ive seen, I agree with the investigator that the calculation wasnt done 
incorrectly. 
Ms Cs representative has suggested that an incorrect retirement age was used  50 instead 
of 60. But, as has been explained, although age 50 is mentioned, thats just a reference to 
the fact that the personal pension was set up with that as the selected retirement age. The 
redress calculation itself was based on the correct normal retirement age under the OPS of 
60. Ms Cs representative hasnt pointed to any other potential material errors.  The 
calculation generally has been reviewed by Zurichs actuary and the redress was found to be 
correct. 
In the circumstances I dont see any reason for me to say that Zurich should be required to 
redo the redress calculation using the FG/17 guidance. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the transfer was reviewed and compensation 
calculated in line with the regulators guidance and requirements at the time. 
On that basis Im not upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman