DRN-3340209
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited        
(British Gas) under his HomeCare policy.
What happened
Mr P says he has held a HomeCare policy with British Gas since 2013, which included the 
benefit of an annual service.
Unfortunately, in November 2020, although the gas safety certificate was issued Mr Ps 
boiler was deemed unsafe due to the type of flue that was fitted to it. British Gas told Mr P 
that the flue could be replaced but Mr P would have to pay for the replacement as it 
incorrectly assumed this was a first visit. 
Mr P says British Gas later acknowledged this wasnt a first visit and agreed to replace the 
flue at no cost to him. British Gas disagreed maintaining that Mr P would need to pay for the 
replacement flue as this would be considered as upgrade work under his policy. 
Mr P says he continued to chase British Gas for a resolution and during these conversations 
he was told the boiler would need to be replaced as the required part was no longer 
available. 
Mr P didnt agree and complained to British Gas. He said that the boiler had been inspected 
every year and no previous concerns had been raised so didnt understand why a clean gas 
safety certificate couldnt be issued on this occasion.  
British Gas upheld the complaint and offered compensation of £100. It agreed Mr P had 
been provided with incorrect information and the visit in November 2020 was incorrectly 
recorded as a first visit rather than an annual service visit. But even so British Gas 
maintained that the replacement of the flue would be considered as upgrade work to meet 
the regulations.
Mr P remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. He didnt think the £100 
offered was reflective of inconvenience caused to him and he still felt British Gas should 
have replaced the flue at no cost to him. He said hes now replaced the boiler for the safety 
of his tenants and so wanted British Gas to reimburse him the cost of the boiler too.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
didnt think British Gas needed to reimburse Mr P for the new boiler as they thought the 
policy didnt cover Mr P for upgrades to the boiler. But they did feel that the compensation 
offered wasnt sufficient and asked British Gas to pay a further £100 in addition to what it 
had already paid. 
British Gas didnt agree and said it felt further compensation wasnt warranted. Mr P also 
disagreed. He felt the flue should have been covered by the policy and so the repair should 
have been undertaken at no cost to him, which he says British Gas told him it would do. So 
the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied that British Gas didnt give the correct information to Mr P regarding the visit in 
November 2020. It was incorrectly logged as a first visit rather than an annual service which 
meant initial confusing dialogue with Mr P centred around the flue for the boiler not being 
covered for this reason. 
Once this was clarified British Gas still maintained the works wouldnt be covered because it 
considered the replacement of the flue to be upgrade work. The terms that apply here are 
set out in the general exclusions of the policy:
 Making any improvements
Your product only includes repairing or replacing your boiler, appliance or system 
when it stops working properly  it doesnt include any improvements or upgrades
Upgrades are defined as:
improvements that make your boiler, appliance or system safer, or more efficient.
The flue needed to be replaced to meet the regulations and to make it safer, so I think the 
terms are relevant in the circumstances and I dont think British Gas were unreasonable in 
applying these terms here. 
Mr P has said British Gas said it would replace the flue at no cost to him and he feels this 
should be honoured, but I havent seen any persuasive evidence to show me he was told 
this. I have been provided with some internal notes of conversations with Mr P and some 
correspondence between him and British Gas. I note in January 2021 Mr P was told the 
work would be chargeable as British Gas considered this upgrade work, and although I cant 
be certain what he was told before, I think by this point he would have known the work to the 
flue wasnt covered under his policy. 
Its not disputed that things werent communicated as well as they should have been during 
the claim process. British Gas acknowledged it had let Mr P down and upheld his complaint 
and paid Mr P £100 in compensation for the poor service and the incorrectly logged visit. But 
I dont think this is fair in the circumstances. 
Mr P had to make a number of calls to deal with the issues and also had some cancelled 
visits. Mr P also wasnt told about the issues with his boiler flue when it was first picked up in 
2018. I can see in the notes that the engineer diagnosed the issue in 2018 but nothing was 
mentioned on the gas safety certificates until November 2020 so I think this would have 
been a concerning surprise to Mr P when he was eventually told. So I agree that its fair and 
reasonable that British Gas compensate Mr P as the investigator suggested by paying an 
additional £100 in recognition of the inconvenience caused to Mr P.
I appreciate Mr P feels the compensation offered falls short of an acceptable amount and 
doesnt adequately represent the inconvenience caused to him. Ive thought about the time 
he says he had to spend dealing with British Gas but we look at the overall impact a 
businesss mistake had on the complainant  rather than awarding compensation based on units of time or at a complainants hourly rate. I see no reason to depart from that approach 
in this case. I also dont think it would be fair to ask British Gas to pay for the new boiler as 
this isnt something his policy covers.
I recognise the experience would have been frustrating for Mr P. But awards for distress and 
inconvenience from this service are generally modest. It isnt the role of this service to 
punish businesses. I think the amount mentioned above is fair and in line with amounts 
awarded by this service for similar cases.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that British Gas should pay Mr P an additional £100 for the 
inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr P £100 in additional compensation for the inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman