DRN-4420074
The complaint
Miss K and Mr S complain about how British Gas Insurance Limited handled their claim on 
their home emergency policy. 
What happened
Miss K and Mr S had a home emergency policy with British Gas. In March 2022 they had a 
problem with their boiler and made a claim. British Gas sent an engineer to inspect the boiler 
the next day. He was unable to fix the issue but ordered some parts to do so.
The following day a second engineer attended. However he said the wrong parts had been 
ordered so he would be unable to fix the boiler. During the visit Miss K and Mr S reported 
that he was rude to members of the household and that they found his behaviour threatening 
and aggressive. And on his way out he slammed a door which spilt paint from a can onto a 
pair of shoes and the kitchen floor. 
Miss K and Mr S subsequently made a complaint about the engineer and British Gas said he 
wouldnt be sent to their property again. However the following day the same engineer 
attended and they experienced similar rude behaviour. 
They complained again and a manager from British Gas came out to talk to them and try and 
resolve the situation. He arranged for a different engineer to attend who fixed the boiler. He 
also said the poor service Miss K and Mr S had received would be investigated. 
In May 2022 they received a final response letter that apologised for the poor service and 
offered £50 compensation.
Miss K and Mr S werent happy with this. They said they were without hot water and heating 
for around a week while they waited for the boiler to be fixed. And theyd had to pay for their 
own alternative accommodation because this wasnt offered by British Gas.  
They also said the behaviour of the second engineer had had a big impact on them, leaving 
Miss K anxious to be at home alone when contractors attended. They also said the manager 
had promised a full investigation but they hadnt heard from him again. And he said British 
Gas would cover the cost of the items damaged by the paint, but this hadnt happened 
either. They brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
thought British Gas should pay an additional £100 compensation to apologise for the 
distress the second engineer caused. However she didnt think it should pay for alternative 
accommodation for the time Miss K and Mr S were without heating and hot water as this 
wasnt covered under the policy. 
Miss K and Mr S didnt agree with our investigators outcome. They said they didnt think the 
compensation was enough to recognise the distress the engineer had caused. They also 
said they had an add-on to their policy that provided cover for alternative accommodation, so 
this should have been offered. They asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.    
When the complaint came to me, I came to a different outcome to our investigator. I wrote to 
each side to explain my provisional findings. In these I said:
The complaint centres particularly around the behaviour of the second engineer that 
attended the property. Miss K and Mr S have explained that he was aggressive towards 
them and that they considered calling the police because of this. Theyve also said he spilt 
paint over some items of contents, including a pair of shoes, while he was there.
This incident had a profound impact on Miss K and Mr S. Theyve described that they were 
scared of the engineer and upset by his actions. Theyve also said they considered that he 
discriminated against Miss K as they treated her differently and they felt it was because of 
her gender.
They complained about it at the time but the same engineer was sent back the following day 
and they experienced further aggressive behaviour. At this point they raised the issues with 
a manager, who came to visit the property and said he would sort the situation out and 
ensure any damage was paid for. However it seems this didnt happen.
Further, it seems that the wrong parts were ordered on the first engineer visit and then the 
second engineer was unable to fix the boiler. This meant Miss K and Mr S were left without a 
working boiler for around a week, and they had no heating and hot water for that time.
Miss K and Mr S have also said that they werent offered any alternative accommodation so 
they had to arrange this themselves during the time theyve been without heating and hot 
water. Theyve said they had an add-on to their policy that includes cover for alternative 
accommodation, however Ive not received a copy of any documentation to confirm this.
But regardless of whether they have this cover in place or not, Im considering the impact of 
British Gas actions on them. And here it seems that Miss K and Mr S were left without 
heating and hot water for longer because of British Gas actions. According to the customers 
account and the internal file notes provided by British Gas, the first engineer ordered 
incorrect parts for the job to be completed. The second engineer is the one who is at the 
centre of this complaint and he attended twice but appears to have done nothing to help 
resolve the issue. It wasnt until a manager got involved and a third engineer was appointed 
that the right part was ordered and the boiler was fixed. 
So due to the actions of British Gas first two engineers they were without heating and hot 
water for much longer than they should have been. Because of this I think its fair that 
regardless of policy cover, British Gas should reimburse Miss K and Mr S for the cost of the 
alternative accommodation they paid for, on receipt of proof of these costs. It should also 
pay 8% simple interest on these costs to make up for the time theyve been without the 
money.
I also think there was considerable distress and inconvenience caused by British Gas 
actions. Not only did they take longer to fix the issue with the boiler, but they failed to 
address Miss K and Mr S concerns about the engineer even though they were promised the 
issues would be addressed.
I am therefore minded to require British Gas to do the following:
Pay to replace any items of contents that were damaged by the second engineer 
knocking paint on them.Pay a total of £400 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Reimburse Miss K and Mr S for the cost of alternative accommodation during the 
period they were without heating and hot water, on receipt of proof of what they paid. 
It should add 8% simple interest from the date of payment until settlement is paid.
Response to my provisional findings
British Gas responded to say it hadnt been informed of the extent of the behaviour of its 
engineer and wanted an opportunity to investigate this. It also said it would need to see 
photos of the damaged items of contents and an invoice for the alternative accommodation 
before payment was made.
Mr S responded and explained the severe impact the matter had had on him and Miss K. He 
said it had made Miss K anxious to be at home alone when contractors were there. He also 
said the manager had provided reassurances that if there were further issues with the boiler 
then he would ensure a replacement was provided. But after this he disappeared and 
became uncontactable and this had been very disappointing and left them without a safety 
net. He said he wanted British Gas to understand the impact caused and learn from its 
failings.
He accepted the outcome contained in my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to British Gas comments about not having a chance to investigate already, I 
have explained to it that I dont agree. Mr S raised his concerns straight after the engineer 
visit and this resulted in a manager being sent to his property who said the matter would be 
fully investigated. This was in March 2022, two months before British Gas issued its final 
response letter. I therefore consider that British Gas were aware of the severity of the matter 
and had ample time to investigate. In response British Gas confirmed it had nothing further 
to add. 
I also confirmed to both sides that Id expect Miss K and Mr S to provide photos of any items 
damaged by the paint and proof of payment for the alternative accommodation before these 
were reimbursed. 
Mr S has now confirmed that the only items damaged by paint were a pair of trainers and a 
small section of his kitchen floor. He has said he will provide photos of these in order for 
British Gas to reimburse him for replacement trainers and reasonable costs for the cleaning 
or replacement of the affected kitchen tile.
After considering all comments received in response to my provisional decision, as well as 
the information contained in the original submission, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I originally laid out. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss K and Mr S complaint and require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to:Pay Miss K and Mr S for replacement trainers and to clean or replace the kitchen tile 
damaged by the second engineer knocking paint on them, on receipt of evidence of 
the damage from Miss K and Mr S.
Pay a total of £400 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Reimburse Miss K and Mr S for the cost of alternative accommodation during the 
period they were without heating and hot water, on receipt of proof of what they paid. 
It should add 8% simple interest from the date of payment until settlement is paid
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman