DRN-3587287
The complaint
Mr R complains that Capital One (Europe) plc placed a marker at CIFAS the national fraud 
database.
What happened
Mr R says he has now discovered that the marker had been added in February 2019 when 
his account was closed. He says that this had affected his ability to access financial products 
elsewhere.
Capital One says it didnt make a mistake. It had been concerned at payment irregularities at 
the time and had written to him about this saying it would be closing his accounts. It wouldnt 
be removing the CIFAS marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the marker 
that Capital One had applied was a misuse of facility one. This related to fraudulent funds 
being received into Mr Rs account. To apply this marker the guidance from CIFAS was that:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
She said that Capital One had information that Mr Rs account had been in receipt of 
fraudulent funds. And that Mr R had told her that he didnt know where this money had 
come from. There were attempts to make payments into his account with different debit 
cards. Payments from three of them were unsuccessful. But later payments did go through. 
She didnt accept Mr Rs explanation that someone had taken his card from his wallet and 
made the payments and returned it. And he had called Capital One to ask for the balance at 
that time.
Mr R didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He is trying to obtain evidence 
to show that his personal items were taken from a public event.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 7 June 2022. I set our below what I 
said.
I needed to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Capital One 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Through our investigator I asked it to confirm whether it had any direct contact with the 
financial business that issued the card used to take actual payments. And for it to provide its 
own information that supported a conclusion that the payments were fraudulent. It stated that 
it didnt have any contact from that financial business and particularly to show that the 
genuine cardholder didnt recognise these payments. And it no longer had the other 
information it relied upon. It referred to contact with Mr R towards the end of January 2019 
that had raised concerns about Mr R allowing a third party to have access to his account. 
As our investigator has said attempts were made to credit payments to Mr Rs account in the 
early hours of the morning of 6 February 2019 using three different card numbers. All of 
these were declined. There is no further information about those payments. The successful 
ones were made that afternoon. There was one for £50 with one card number and then three 
being £50, £100 and £86.72 with another. Capital One says that its specific concerns were 
about the latter three payments. It didnt speak to Mr R about the payments at the time.
I didnt doubt that this pattern of attempted and actual payments to Mr Rs account was 
suspicious. And was a reasonable basis for Capital One to decide to close his accounts. But 
I wasnt satisfied that Capital One has demonstrated that it had sufficient information at the 
time that the marker was applied to show that the funds were fraudulently obtained. And to 
be in a position to be able to report such a fraud to the authorities. I would have expected it 
to retain any information it relied on and to provide consistent and accurate documentation 
about what happened. 
I also agreed that Mr Rs explanation of how his account could have been used by a third 
party without his knowledge isnt supported by any evidence. He wasnt asked for an 
explanation at the time. And hes now said that he doesnt recognise the payments and had 
nothing to do with any fraud. 
Our investigator has set out that the grounds for adding a CIFAS marker have to be more 
than suspicion. As Id said I didnt find that Capital One had sufficient grounds to show and 
report that fraud had been made or attempted. And given this finding then whether or not   
Mr R allowed his account to be used by someone else to make these payments or not 
doesnt really assist in considering the CIFAS marker. I didnt think its reasonable to hold 
what hes later said about that against him in the circumstances.
So, I considered that the marker should be removed. Mr R has said that this has affected his 
ability to access financial products. A marker on the database shouldnt lead to automatic 
refusal - and financial businesses must still make their own checks and make their own 
decisions. I didnt have evidence about that in any event. I noted that Mr R says he was 
trying to build his credit record at the time, and I couldnt say what if any other information 
was recorded about him that would have been relevant. Id need to think that this marker 
was the sole reason that he couldnt access other products. I wasnt able to conclude that on 
the information available. I did though find that he has been caused a measure of trouble 
and upset in having to deal with this marker and I intended to award him £300 in 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R said he agreed with my decision. He wanted to make sure this didnt change. And he 
provided a supporting statement from a friend at university with him at the time.
Capital One didnt agree. It provided its internal criteria for loading a payment fraud marker 
and it explained why these had been met. There were concerns about calls made about the account and the information about it. 
I set out above that Im considering whether there are grounds for a CIFAS marker and 
referring to guidance from CIFAS. I want to make clear that Im not reviewing Capital Ones 
internal processes generally. I have considered what it said but I dont think it appropriate to 
quote processes around fraud in a public document as they dont change my assessment. 
And thats also because I am only looking here at what happened in Mr Rs case
I remain of the view that there were clear grounds for suspicion and the potential that Mr R 
had allowed someone else to use his account. But I have still not had any third-party 
confirmation that the payments in question had been reported as fraudulent. I set out above 
that Id expect Capital One to have retained the information that supports a marker and to 
have given a consistent explanation. The CIFAS guidance quoted above is that Capital 
Ones evidence ..must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
I dont consider that this high bar was met. And I dont think that this can be fairly achieved 
by questioning Mr Rs later explanation  and which wasnt asked for at the time. For these 
reasons I dont need to place any weight on what he says about that. I recognise his 
difficulties too in trying to substantiate something which had happened years earlier.
In light of this I wont be departing from my reasoning or conclusions in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Capital One (Europe) Ltd to:
1) Remove the CIFAS marker.
2) Pay Mr R £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman