DRN-1671043
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1995. Mrs B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. Mrs B says that she had no idea that PPI had been attached to 
her credit card. She says she would never have agreed to take PPI as she 
considered it to be an ineffectual policy and that she always refused PPI. She says 
that she was just told where to sign and the application process was conducted in an 
extremely casual manner. However, Ive seen a copy of the application form 
completed at the time of the sale. I note that it presented Mrs B with two equally clear 
options to either take or refuse PPI. It appears Mrs B ticked the box to take PPI and 
also signed this form.
 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:  
When the policy was sold, Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs B, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said - including what she has about her existing 
repayment provisions and the way the policy was sold. But these points dont change my 
decision. The PPI policy would have paid out in addition to Mrs Bs sick pay and for a much 
longer period of time. It would also have paid out if she lost her job  for up to 12 months per 
claim in addition to any redundancy pay she may have been entitled to. I say may because 
I note that Mrs B had been working with her employer for less than two years at the time of 
the sale and ordinarily she would have had to have been working for at least two years 
before she could benefit from statutory redundancy pay. Mrs B has also mentioned that her 
parents were affluent and wouldve helped her financially if she was unable to work. But this 
couldnt be guaranteed and ultimately the credit card was in Mrs Bs name alone and it was 
her sole responsibility to meet the repayments. 
Mrs B has also made some other points in relation to the lack of information following the 
sale and that Barclays initially provided her with incorrect information. However, these arent 
relevant to whether or not the policy was mis-sold in the first place.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman