DRN-3945758
The complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) should 
be holding, for her benefit, an endowment policy, or at least holding records pertaining to the 
existence of such a policy.
What happened
In November 2022 BM issued Ms M with a final response letter (FRL), following a 
complaint she had made to it. Under cover of this FRL BM confirmed that despite a check of 
its records it had been unable to  locate an endowment policy in Ms Ms name, or any 
reference to one.
Ms Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded, on the balance 
of probabilities, that BM wasnt holding for Ms Ms benefit an endowment policy or holding 
any records pertaining to the existence of one.
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators conclusion, so her complaint has been passed to 
me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what  
I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
BM has provided details of a mortgage application Ms M made in 2007 and the terms of its 
offer in this respect. From these records Im satisfied that:
BM didnt recommend the mortgage Ms M was offered, this being recommended by a 
third party.
No endowment was arranged, or offered as security, in support of the mortgage.
The mortgage offer states You will still owe [£xx] at the end of the mortgage term. 
You will need to make separate arrangements to repay this. You have advised [BM] 
that the loan is to be repaid by Sale of Other Assets/Business. [my emphasis]
BM has also provided details of the searches it has undertaken to try and locate an 
endowment in Ms Ms name. Searches I note include Ms Ms correct name spelling and date 
of birth.
In light of the above and given Ms M hasnt been able to provide any documentary evidence 
of a mortgage endowment (such as policy schedule or statement), or even a policy number, 
Im satisfied that BM has done nothing wrong in concluding that it doesnt hold for Ms Ms 
benefit an endowment, or any records of one ever being in existence. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman