DRN-3896463
The complaint
Mr M complains that PayrNet Limited wont return the funds held in his Pockit account.
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card which at the time of Mr Ms complaint was 
administered by PayrNet Limited.
What happened
Mr M had a Pockit account which he used to receive wages from his employer at the time. 
The account was opened by his employer. In May 2021 the account was blocked while a 
review was carried out. As part of this they asked Mr M to provide identification, as well as 
proof of his address and source of funds. Mr M provided some information to Pockit, but the 
account remained blocked.
In January 2022 Pockit closed Mr Ms account. They returned the remaining balance in the 
account - £66.96  to his now former employer. Mr M complained about this but did not 
receive a response. He referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should succeed in part. They said Pockit were within 
their rights to review the account and block any transactions while they did. They were 
satisfied that Pockit had acted in line with their terms and conditions when closing the 
account. But they felt Mr M had shown his entitlement to the funds in the account, and so 
they should have been returned to him by 31 August 2021. They asked for the funds to be 
returned to Mr M, along with 8% interest from that date until the date of settlement, along 
with £50 compensation to reflect the inconvenience caused.
Mr M agreed with this outcome. Pockit agreed with the interest and compensation but said 
that Mr M could get the funds back from his former employer. They said Mr M could 
potentially benefit from these funds twice if the employer had already given the funds to him.
The investigator received further information from Mr M which satisfied them that Mr M 
hadnt received the funds from his employer. But Pockit still didnt agree  so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, it doesnt appear to be disputed that Pockit have legal and regulatory obligations to 
meet when providing accounts to consumers. This means they can ask for further 
information about where the money in an account came from, or to get more information 
about the people theyre supplying accounts to. And its not unreasonable to restrict 
accounts while they do so.
Having reviewed the information supplied by Pockit Im satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable 
for them to review and restrict Mr Ms account. I dont consider the information they asked for 
to be unreasonable.
Likewise, firms can decide they no longer wish to provide services to consumers and close 
their accounts, so long as they do so in line with their terms. Ive reviewed the terms of 
Mr Ms Pockit account, and it says they will give 60 days notice before closing an account. 
In this case though the account was restricted without notice, and Mr M couldnt make 
transactions until the account closed in January 2022  so in practice I see it as closed 
without notice. 
The terms outline when an account can close without notice  and Im not persuaded that 
these criteria have been met in this instance. It may well have been fairer to give Mr M the 
full 60 days notice before withdrawing services. But Im not sure this will have affected very 
much, as Mr M managed to make alternative arrangements while the block was in place. So, 
there is no real impact on Mr M from this.
However, I do think the decision to close the account took too long. It wasnt until January 
2022 that this was communicated to him. Looking at the information from Pockit I would 
suggest that they had enough information to reach this conclusion by the end of 
August 2021. I cant see there were any reasonable reasons to delay beyond this. 
But the crux of the dispute now is over Pockits decision to return the funds to Mr Ms former 
employer. The terms say under section 21 Ending the Agreement  21.3  we reserve the 
right to return the funds held in your account either back to the senders of the payments or to 
the Account Holder subject to satisfying conditions in Section 20.3. Section 20.3 refers to 
having proof of address and ownership of a UK bank account, so Mr M satisfied these 
conditions.
This tells me Pockit arent obliged to return the funds to the sending bank, it is a choice they 
can make. And even when closing an account Pockit has a responsibility to treat their 
consumers fairly. And Im not persuaded it is fairest to Mr M for Pockit to have returned the 
funds to the sending party. There doesnt seem to have been any dispute over the 
ownership of these funds  they hadnt been claimed as fraudulent or recalled by the sender. 
The only person with any claim to these funds was Mr M. So, Im satisfied it was unfair for 
Pockit to return these funds to his former employer.
Pockit have raised concerns that Mr M may have been able to recover these funds from his 
former employer. And if they were to refund him, he would have double benefit of them. Ive 
reviewed Mr Ms communication with his former employer, and nothing Ive seen suggests 
hes had any success in getting the money back from them. I accept this is a risk, but Ive 
found Mr M to be sincere in his attempts to recover the funds. And I have to bear in mind 
that this situation was created by Pockit returning the funds unfairly.
Overall, Im satisfied that Pockit should have closed Mr Ms account by the end of 
August 2021 and returned the funds directly to him. So, to resolve the complaint I would say 
Pockit should return these funds to him, along with 8% simple interest from 31 August 2021 
to the date of settlement. I can also see that it will have been frustrating to not know what 
would happen to the funds while the account was blocked, and inconvenient to have to 
chase up a former employer for funds that shouldnt have been returned. So, Im satisfied Mr 
M is due some compensation, and I consider £50 to be an appropriate amount
.
My final decision
My final decision is that PayrNet Limited must:Refund the £66.96 directly to Mr M
Add 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from 31 August 2021 to the date 
of settlement
Pay him £50 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has caused
HM Revenue & Customs require PayrNet Ltd to withhold income tax from the above 
mentioned interest. PayrNet should give Mr M a certificate showing how much is taken off if 
he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman