DRN-4062617
The complaint
Mr S says the advice given and the arrangements made by Towergate Financial (East) 
Limited (TFE), trading as M2 Financial Limited, to transfer from his defined benefit (DB) 
pension and to establish a personal pension plan with AXA, was unsuitable.
Mr S is represented by Anthony Philip James & Co (APJ).
What happened
Mr S accepted an invite and attended a group meeting with TFE in July 2007 to discuss his 
retirement planning. Hed been made redundant from his employer after 17 years of service. 
During that time hed accrued benefits in an occupational pension scheme. The Trustees of 
his pension scheme were offering former employees enhanced payments to transfer into 
different arrangements. It seems they also paid for TFEs advice to Mr S.
TFE completed a fact-find on 13 July 2007. This captured information about Mr Ss 
circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk.
Its recorded that Mr S was living with a partner with two dependent children. He was 38. He 
was an HGV driver by trade, unemployed at the time of the advice, but actively seeking 
work. His partner was working part-time. No information about any benefits received was 
recorded. The household was said to have a net monthly income of around £600 and 
outgoings of about £1250. The deficit was being covered from savings and Mr Ss 
redundancy money.
Mr S and his partner owned their home, which was said to be worth around £145,000. They 
had an outstanding mortgage of around £65,000. They were said to have £6,000 of savings 
and no liabilities were recorded.
Mr S was asked to respond to a series of questions related to his attitude to risk. Through
the box ticking exercise he indicated the following:
- He had serious concerns regarding the financial stability of his ex-employer and 
didnt want his benefits to remain under its control.
- The benefits under discussion were a major proportion of his pension funding which 
should be protected as far as was reasonably possible.
- Maximising his tax-free lump sum wasnt a priority for him.
- The spouses pension and benefits under his DB scheme were most important to 
him, and he wanted these to continue before and after his retirement.
- He had very little life assurance cover and his dependents could do with extra sums if 
they could be made available.
- He didnt think hed be able to retire early, but would like the option of flexibility if his 
circumstances were to change in the future.
- He didnt mind taking a reasonable degree of risk in the hope his benefits would be 
higher in retirement.
Mr S confirmed his top three priorities were: the security of his pension fund; to increase his 
pension; and provision for a spouses and dependents pension. On a scale of 1 (lowest) to 
10 (highest), TFE assessed Mr Ss attitude to risk as 3.
Its recorded Mr S wanted to retire when he reached 60. His DB membership was his only 
pension provision at the time, aside from any state pension entitlement which wasnt touched 
on. No information was captured about his income requirements in retirement.
For Mr Ss 17 years of service with his former employer, he couldve expected an annual 
pension of around £12,200 a year at 60. Or a pension of £7,400 a year and tax-free cash 
(TFC) of £49,400. In exchange for these and other benefits, the Trustees of his DB scheme 
offered him a transfer value of about £33,000. In addition, they were also offering a separate 
payment of £40,200 if he were to move to another pension arrangement.
TFE provided Mr S with its suitability report dated 13 July 2007. On page 11 of the 21 page 
report, in a section about how it assessed whether it was in a clients best interests to 
transfer or not, it said:
Thereforewe do not recommend that you transfer away from the [DB] Scheme. This is 
because there is a very real and high risk that you will be worse off. You should not decide to 
transfer unless you understand the high risks of doing so and you are absolutely sure that it 
is the right thing for you to do. Based on your answers to the questions in the Pension 
Transfer Criteria Questionnaire, you expressed that specify factor/criteria was an important 
consideration for you. There is a slight possibility this factor may be better for you by 
transferring away and you decided that you wish to transfer away as a result of this 
possibility, although this would be against our advice. There are no guarantees and you are 
likely to be better off at retirement by not transferring away from the [DB] Scheme.
WE HAVE DISCUSSED YOUR SITUATION FULLY AND YOU HAVE DECIDED THAT 
YOU DO WISH TO TRANSFER OUT OF THE [DB] SCHEME AND BENEFIT FROM THE 
ADDITIONAL PAYMENT WHICH IS BEING OFFERED BY [DB Scheme].
I HAVE EXPLAINED TO YOU AND YOU HAVE UNDERSTOOD AND ACCEPTED THE 
FACT THAT YOU ARE LIKELY TO END UP BEING WORSE OFF AT RETIREMENT 
BECAUSE THERE IS A HIGH RISK THE UNDERLYING INVESTMENT FUNDS WITHIN 
THE NEW PERSONAL PENSION WILL NOT ACHIEVE THE REQUIRED CRITICAL 
YIELD.
AS A RESULT OF YOUR DECISION YOU HAVE ASKED ME TO RECOMMEND A 
SUITABLE PRODUCT AND PROVIDER TO WHICH TO TRANSFER YOUR [DB] 
BENEFITS.
You have decided totransfer the pension fund and take part of the additional payment 
being offered as a cash payment now. You require a cash payment of £25,000. As 
explained, this amount will be liable to income tax and National Insurance and will therefore 
be reduced accordingly to around £18,100. This is going against the advice of M2 Financial 
LtdYou have elected to do this for the following reasons: home improvements.
This action is against the advice of M2 Financial, which is to take the transfer value with the 
full Additional Payment transferred into a pension as well, so that it is not reduced by tax and 
NI. In addition, by taking the Additional Payment as cash and not as an additional pension 
contribution, you will be worse off at retirement in terms of pension provision, as your funds 
will obviously be worth less than they would have been if you transferred the full amount into 
a pension. Although you may be better off in the short term due to repaying debts and not 
having to meet the monthly repayments, in the long term, there is a risk that you will suffer a 
shortfall in income at retirement. However, you have decided to act against our advice and have asked me to recommend a suitable product to transfer your basic [DB] Scheme 
benefits into.
Under a section titled Recommendation TFE went on to say Mr S should place his funds in 
an AXA personal pension and invest in funds that were aligned to his cautious attitude to 
risk.
Mr S decided he wanted to transfer his DB pension benefits to a personal pension with AXA 
into investments consistent with his risk appetite. This took place in October 2007.
In July 2014 the FCA published its findings into financial advice given to people who were 
offered enhancements to incentivise them to leave their employers DB pension schemes. It 
identified a risk of customers losing out on retirement income due to poor advice. It followed 
up its concerns with firms to ensure they reviewed previous transactions and put things right 
where problems were identified.
In 2015 TFE appointed an accountancy business (X) to look into transactions like those it 
had conducted with Mr S. X considered his case in 2015. The initial assessment found the 
advice had been unsuitable. A subsequent peer review passed the advice. It wasnt until 
later that X managed to get in contact with Mr S to tell him about the work it was doing and 
to ask whether he wanted to take part in the review. He agreed to do so and provided further 
information about what he remembered from the time of the advice.
On 24 August 2020 TFE wrote to Mr S with the outcome of the review. In summary it said:
Having now had the opportunity to review your file in full, we did identify some concerns 
around the explanation of your ability to retire on an unreduced pension from [your former 
employer] at age 60. We also identified that you were not provided with the correct Critical 
Yield for your intended course of action.
In this regard, whilst we note, from your response of February 2020, that you told us you 
had not understood that you would receive unreduced benefits by leaving the [DB] Scheme 
at age 60, we also note that when acting against advice in July 2007, you told us: I had a 
meeting with [Mr Z], a Financial Adviser for M2 Financial. I am going against his advice and 
moving my pension from [DB] Scheme. We would like some home improvements done and 
are going to take £25,000 before tax.
Accordingly, overall, whilst we have concluded that you were not placed in an entirely 
informed position, overall, we are satisfied that the course of action you selected was not 
impacted in this instance.
Mr S, represented by APJ, contacted this Service in December 2021. He raised his concerns
about the advice he received in the following terms:
I received a letter from financial advisors to move my pension. I went to meet at a hotel 
when we were all told to go into a room for an explanation. It was explained to me that it was 
a good thing to do at the time and that I would receive £27,000 at the time of the transfer. I 
wasn't told of any risks associated with the transfer. I was told over the course of about 30 
minutes that it wouldn't affect my original pension as it would just be transferred over so I 
believed it would act the same.
I did not understand what was going on at the time of the advice to transfer so I didn't feel 
pressured as such, but the transfer was sold to me as a good thing to do so I just trusted the 
financial advisors.
I thought as the advice had come from a financial advisor that they would know what they 
were talking about and that it was the right thing to do at the time.I only realised a couple of years ago that I had lost the benefit of my previous pension 
scheme and I was absolutely gutted as I could have retired at 58 and now I can only retire at 
age 65. It has been awful for me and I feel terrible, I entered another pension a few years 
ago but have nowhere near as much money as my previous pension that I have lost.
I do not believe the advice from Towergate Financial was appropriate for me I was not 
advised about the benefits of sticking with my original pension it was all focused on the 
transfer across to AXA. The change over to AXA was as a result of a heavy sales pitch, I 
paid 18 years worth into my [DB] pension as I worked there from a very young age. My wife 
and I have been very upset with the money lost as a result of their poor financial advice.
In February 2022, TFE issued its final response to Mr S rejecting his case. It said it had 
conducted a review in August 2020 of the transaction from 2007 as required by the FCA. It 
had concluded that although there were some problems with the process it had followed, this 
hadnt made a difference to what wouldve happened. It said it had warned him at the time 
not to transfer his DB pension. But that because he wanted access to money from the cash 
enhancement being offered by the Trustees he went ahead.
An Investigator considered Mr Ss case and upheld it. She found there were weaknesses in 
the insistent client process TFE had followed.
TFE rejected the Investigators findings and conclusions. Firstly, it challenged this Services 
jurisdiction to consider Mr Ss complaint. It said the outcome of its review of the advice it 
gave Mr S in 2007 wasnt a regulated activity. It then went on to question whether hed 
brought his complaint within the allowable time limits. 
In terms of the merits of the case, TFEs position was that its suitability report to Mr S had 
been clear that he shouldnt transfer his pension. But he wanted to proceed because hed 
wanted funds for home improvements. And he did so on an insistent client basis.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Ss case was passed to me to 
review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in March 2023. Neither party has provided 
any new evidence or arguments for me to consider, as such I see not reason to depart from 
my initial findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
I consider Mr Ss case is within the jurisdiction of this Service. Further Im upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
JurisdictionOur service was set up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that as a public body we dont have a general, at large, 
power to investigate any complaint. We can only investigate what FSMA and the rules made 
under it say we can  this sets the boundaries of our scheme. And we have no legal power 
to investigate complaints that are beyond our jurisdiction.
FSMA gives the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) the power to say what complaints we can 
and cant consider. The FCA has set these out in the Dispute Resolution chapter of its 
Handbook (also known as DISP or the DISP rules).
TFE says Mr Ss complaint is about the outcome of a Past Business Review (PBR) carried 
out by a skilled person appointed by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) under s.166 of 
FSMA). It said that isnt a regulated activity and so not something this Service can consider.
I dont agree with TFE. Although I accept a PBR isnt a regulated activity, I think Mr S is 
complaining about the advice he received in connection with the transfer of his DB pension, 
not the outcome of the PBR. So, Im satisfied I can consider the case on these grounds.
Next Ive thought about TFEs challenge to our jurisdiction based on time limits. If a business 
doesnt consent, this Service cant consider a complaint which isnt made within specified 
time limits. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
More than:
a. six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
b. three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless:
In the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or 
DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr S is worried hes lost out because of the advice and arrangements made by TFE in 2007, 
which he says led to the transfer of his DB pension, opening a personal pension with AXA 
and investing his funds in line with his assessed attitude to risk.
Taking the six-year rule first, a complaint is out of time if its referred to our Service more 
than six years after the event complained about. Thats unless the complaint was referred to 
the respondent business within that period and the complainant has a written 
acknowledgement or other record of the complaint having been received.
Mr Ss complaint was raised through this Service in December 2021. TFE provided its final 
response to Mr S on 7 February 2022. As the advice complained about happened in 2007, 
his case is out of time on the six-year limb of the test.
In respect of the three-year test. I need to decide when Mr S became aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, that he had a cause to complain. And having established 
that date, determine whether he brought his complaint within three years of it.
In making its case to time bar Mr S, TFE said:We believe that the case may also be outside of your jurisdiction under DISP 2.8.2. The 
advice in question occurred in 2007 and the client will have received annual statements 
outlining his personal pension benefits.
TFE hasnt provided any evidence to support its case. It hasnt said exactly what it was 
about the annual pension statements Mr S received that shouldve put him on notice that 
there was an issue. It seems his pension pot has grown over time, and seemingly in line with 
what might be expected from a cautious managed investment strategy.
Further, a problem for TFE is that I havent seen a personal pension statement which shows 
a customer in Mr Ss position how much their benefits wouldve been worth had they 
remained in their DB scheme. So, without such a comparison, its difficult to see how an 
annual statement, which captured the performance of a fund that was in line with 
expectations wouldve alerted him to a potential issue. TFE hasnt done enough to 
demonstrate Mr Ss complaint should be time-barred. 
I think Mr S became aware, or ought to reasonably have become aware, of cause for 
complaint when he received the outcome of TFEs review of the advice it gave him. This 
acknowledged there had been problems with its advice, even though it asserted this had 
made no difference to him. The outcome was sent to him in August 2020. TFE 
acknowledged his complaint in January 2022. So, based on the information available to me, 
his complaint is duly made and this Service can consider it.
Ill now go on to consider the merits of Mr Ss case.
The merits of the case
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ss case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by TFE for Mr S. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like TFE. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
At the time of the advice TFE gave Mr S, COBS 5.3.29G made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from DB schemes:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
a. start by assuming it will not be suitable, andb. only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence 
available at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
Under COBS 5.3.22, the following requirements applied to TFE:
1) A firm must ensure that a transfer value analysis is carried out in accordance with 
COB 6.6.87 R - COB 6.6.93 R (Projections) before it makes any recommendation to 
a customer to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme.
2) A copy of the analysis must be delivered with the key features document or otherwise 
provided to the customer before he gives consent to the application to transfer.
3) The firm must take reasonable steps to ensure the customer understands the 
analysis, drawing attention to factors which do and do not support the 
recommendation to transfer.
Under COBS 5.3.23, the following requirements applied to TFE:
A firm must provide a projection of the possible future benefits of the proposed individual 
pension contract before it makes any personal recommendation to a customer to opt out of, 
or transfer from, an occupational pension scheme.
1) The format and nature of the benefits given in the projection must, so far as possible, 
be the same as those which apply under the occupational pension scheme of which 
the customer is, or is eligible to become, a member.
2) If it is not possible for the benefits shown in the projection to replicate those of the 
occupational pension scheme, an explanation must be given.
3) If the customer has expressed an interest in changing the structure of his eventual 
benefits, an additional projection may also be prepared on that basis.
Under COBS 5.3.25, the following requirements applied to TFE:
If, contrary to the advice of the firm, a private customer instructs the firm to arrange a 
pension opt-out or pension transfer, the firm must:
1) Make and retain a clear record of the firm's advice that the private customer should 
not proceed with the pension opt-out or pension transfer and the private customer's 
instructions to proceed with the transaction; and
2) Provide a further confirmation and explanation, in writing, to the private customer that 
the firm's advice is that the private customer should not proceed with the pension 
opt-out or pension transfer.
Did TFE adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think TFE met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
There are a number of documents relating to TFEs transaction with Mr S that are important 
to my consideration, these include the fact-find, the pension transfer analysis, the suitability 
report and matters relating to the insistent client process it followed.
TFE says it clearly advised Mr S not to transfer his DB pension. But he wanted to proceed, 
nonetheless.
Mr S wrote a letter dated 18 July 2007 in which he said that following his meeting with TFE 
and its advice not to move his pension, he wanted to proceed with the transfer. He wanted to 
access £25,000 from the enhancement offered by the DB Trustees to carry out home improvements. Theres another insistent client letter on file signed and dated by him on 3 
August 2007. This provides a more detailed description of his decisions.
Ive thought carefully about what TFE has said about Mr S being an insistent client. Where a 
firm decides to transact with a customer on an insistent client basis, it should communicate 
with them:
- In terms that are clear, fair and not misleading.
- Having regard for the information needs of the client such that the client can 
understand.
- That it hasnt recommended the transaction and that it will not be in accordance with 
the personal recommendation.
- The reasons why it isnt in accordance with that personal recommendation.
- The risks of the transaction proposed by the client.
- The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction.
TFE also needed to obtain Mr Ss acknowledgement that the transaction wouldnt be in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by it; and the transaction was being 
carried out at his request. I think this acknowledgement should be in Mr Ss own words.
Although it might be argued that these regulatory requirements post-date the advice TFE 
gave Mr S in 2007, I dont think such a position is tenable. I would draw attention to the 
specific FCA principles Ive already set out. They were in place well before TFE gave its 
advice. The principles are the keystone from which most other guidance flows. I think a firm 
adhering to the principles shouldve ensured any insistent client process it operated could 
stand up against what was clearly being provided for in them.
I have concerns about the insistent client process TFE followed with Mr S. And on balance, 
Ive concluded it was flawed because:
- Theres no evidence Mr S was knowledgeable in pension or investment matters. The 
insistent client letters he wrote and/or signed dont demonstrate his understanding of 
the risks he was taking on the benefits he was giving up.
- While its suitability report for Mr S did say proceeding would be against its advice, 
this was somewhat undermined by information it provided in the same 
communication about how he could proceed.
- The suitability report was difficult to navigate, unnecessarily nuanced and contained 
material inaccuracies. For example, the critical yield and its own transfer assessment 
rating were incorrect. As a key deliverable, it didnt provide a sound basis for his 
decision making.
- There are significant gaps in the information Mr S received in the advice process, for 
example in terms of planning for his income in retirement. So how could his decision 
making be said to be fully informed?
- Mr Ss decision to transfer wasnt rationale. As TFE itself noted, transferring his DB 
pension and taking some of the enhancement on offer would likely mean he was 
worse off in retirement. The only reason for proceeding was his desire to secure cash 
for home improvements.
- There were failings by the firm in following its own insistent client process. For 
example, it failed to provide a second suitability report or arrange a further meeting 
prior to the transfer application being completed.Ill now consider some of these matters in a little more detail.
Theres no evidence Mr S had knowledge and experience of pension and investment 
matters. I think this shouldve been clear from the information TFE gleaned. This shouldve 
put it on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters through the insistent client 
route. And its important context when I consider what happened to him.
Theres no dispute TFEs suitability report stated that it was against its advice for Mr S to 
transfer from his DB scheme. But his desire to do so is made clear from the outset of the 
report, under objectives on the second page it said:
TRANSFERRING AND TAKING CASH - You wish to transfer and take the Additional 
Payment being offered as a cash payment to you (as opposed to transferring the Additional 
Payment into another registered pension scheme) You wish to use this for the following 
reason(s): home improvements
In some areas the suitability report implied Mr S could be better off by transferring:
Whilst it might be potentially beneficial for a deferred member of the [DB] Scheme to 
transfer away from the [DB] Scheme, your pension will depend upon investment returns in 
the future and these cannot be guaranteed.
But TFE wouldve known given Mr Ss circumstances and attitude to risk, any transfer was 
highly likely to erode the value of his benefits in retirement.
The suitability report arguably fed into Mr Ss existing concerns that his DB pension was 
insecure:
The pension you will receive from [DB Scheme] is not dependent upon investment returns,
but it is dependent upon the employer's ability to continue funding theScheme.
these "guarantees" [of his DB pension] are reliant on the financial solvency of the 
[Scheme] and the Trustees being able to meet the [Schemes] liabilities.
While TFEs report did also note the existence of the Pension Protection Fund, it didnt 
explain that even in a worst case scenario this would protect 90% of his benefits.
The only section of the suitability report clearly signposted with recommendations advised 
Mr S how he should move his benefits:
Recommendation
In order to streamline efficiencies and obtain very competitive terms for individual members, 
we researched the pensions market to find a plan provider who would offer an extremely 
cost effective product together with a wide range of available investment funds and full 
flexibility.
Therefore, I would recommend that you transfer out your benefits, into a Personal Pension 
Plan using the AXA Individual Pension Plan
The only reason given for Mr S wanting to transfer his DB pension was to take advantage of 
the cash payment on offer from Scheme Trustees to conduct home improvements. This 
wasnt a strong argument for him doing so. TFE hasnt done enough to satisfy me that it 
provided him with an effective advice service to ensure he was fully informed and 
understood the potential consequences of his actions. Instead it failed to challenge his 
decision making and facilitated a transaction knowing it was highly likely to cause him 
financial harm in retirement.I find there was insufficient separation between delivery of its advice and notification of how 
Mr S could still proceed despite its recommendation that he shouldnt. Indeed, this was all 
contained in the same letter.
Another telling problem for TFE in this case are important process and information 
weaknesses. I note that in its own review in 2020 of what happened in 2007, it concluded 
there were failings with its advice process, its insistent client process and the disclosures it 
made to Mr S. It concluded in the following terms:
the client has a planned retirement age of 60 in the Fact-find, however in the AXA 
Application form, his planned retirement age is recorded as 65. There is therefore a 
mismatch. Additionally, the client was only provided with the [critical yield] (of 6.4%) to age 
65, which is not his intended course of action, as per the FF. Also, the client was not 
provided with Income forecasts in the SL. Ultimately, it is noted that the Client was a Post 
1991 Scheme leaver, and accordingly, was entitled to Unreduced Benefits, at age 60 (*58 
years and 8 months approx. in his case). To this end, the disclosures provided to him, 
should have included a clearer explanation of what this meant in practice, and importantly, 
that this benefit would be lost on transferring. The tables used in the suitability letters were 
not sufficiently clear to achieve this.
Without overstating the problems TFE identified, it is clear that such weaknesses meant Mr 
S was never placed into a position where he could take fully informed decisions about a 
matter that had substantial ramifications for his life in retirement.
For example, I cant see that TFE effectively moved from high level assertions about the 
possibility for Mr S to be worse off after the transfer, into the realms of practical monetary 
implications for his retirement, over his lifetime.
Ive not seen how he was given the right information at the right time to be able to weigh 
properly how far his retirement benefits could be eroded or to appreciate the medium and 
long term consequences of such. Ive not seen evidence that TFE effectively advised Mr S 
about the long-term nature of pension planning. The need for a pot of funds to provide an 
income for many years ahead.
TFEs focus was on facilitating a transaction for Mr S rather than providing him with the fully 
formed advice about his retirement planning. Its approach more likely than not reinforced 
what was in his mind about transferring his retirement provision, rather than acting as a 
bulwark against precipitous action.
So, TFE hasnt satisfied me that it treated Mr S fairly by helping him to understand the 
significance of the decision he was about to make. He may have signed an insistent client 
letter, but this doesnt absolve it from acting with due care and skill.
TFE concluded the transfer of Mr Ss DB pension wasnt suitable. I agree.
Considering the financial case alone. TFEs advice was given during the period when this 
Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Businesses weren't required to 
refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, but I consider they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably achievable 
when it advised him in 2007.
The pension transfer analysis report commissioned by TFE noted that the investment return 
(critical yield) required to match Mr Ss deferred benefits was around 9.6% per year, if he 
were to retire at 65, taking all the benefits as an income (he wasnt informed of this). This compares with the discount rate of 5.8% for 27 years to retirement. This doesnt even factor 
in matters such as his cautious appetite for risk, which wouldve meant lower returns. Mr S 
was more likely than not to receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than provided 
for in his DB scheme.
From the available evidence, there was no pressing need in 2007 for Mr S to move away 
from his DB scheme. But there were significant risks in him doing so. His benefits in the 
scheme were guaranteed, with provision for increases each year. And it was his only 
pension aside from any state pension entitlement.
Mr S had a low appetite for risk. And given what we know about his pension provision, and 
the situation of his household with respect to assets, savings and investments, its 
reasonable to deduce he had no capacity for loss in terms of his retirement planning.
Yet, Mr S ended up transferring away from a DB scheme where he was guaranteed pre and 
post retirement indexation of his pension income. And where he had death benefits for 
dependants. This was a situation where any risks were largely borne by his DB Scheme. 
And in place of this arrangement he opened a personal pension, which was projected to 
provided him with a materially lower pension and which exposed him to investment risk.
If a transfer wouldnt improve on the benefits of the scheme, there had to be some other 
strong justification for Mr S relinquishing the valuable guarantees that it provided him  what 
was this? In concluding its review of the advice it had given Mr S in 2007, TFE said:
Ultimately then, having now considered ALL information available to us in connection with 
this case, it is TFs belief, that at the time the advice was provided to the client, on the 
balance of probability, his desire to take a proportion of the available enhancement as a 
taxable lump sum (in order that he could carry out some home improvements, and thus 
improve the quality of his familys life) was far greater, than his desire to remain in the [DB 
Scheme.]
So, TFEs case is that even if it had got everything right in the advice it gave Mr S in 2007, 
hed still have gone ahead with the transfer because he wanted to make some home 
improvements.
In responding to TFE in 2020 Mr S took a different view. He said:
I dont remember being advised not to change but I do remember [the adviser] offering me 
money to change, he said I could have a lump sum and what I could do with that sort of 
money.
Mr S said he didnt realise he couldve retired at 58 and still have received an unreduced 
pension under his former arrangements, nor did he understand the benefits available to him 
from his DB Scheme. He says the adviser was more interested in telling him about the lump 
sum on offer.
Im mindful of the benefit of hindsight here. But given the failings identified with TFEs advice 
approach and my concerns about the insistent client process it followed, it hasnt done 
enough to satisfy me that Mr S wouldve gone ahead with the transfer irrespective of the role 
it played.
I say this because it was TFEs role to discern what Mr Ss wants and needs were, and why. 
Its role wasnt simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to do 
these things because it had to act in his best interests. Even though it told Mr S the transfer 
would be against its advice, I dont think its demonstrably met these obligations.TFE was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr S about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It cant rely on the risk warnings 
provided in its letter covering its suitability report to escape responsibility for what happened 
to him.
While TFE acknowledged the transfer of his DB pension wasnt suitable, there were failings 
in the advice process which meant Mr S wasnt fully informed about his position and I think 
its more likely than not the effect of fuller information, better analysis and an effective advice 
process wouldve been significant to his decision making.
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the 
process TFE followed meant Mr S can truly be regarded as an insistent client. Its 
communications werent clear or fair. It didnt act in his best interests. And it failed to act with 
due care and skill.
I think that if TFE had given Mr S unequivocal, clear and fully formed advice, its more likely 
than not he wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer of his deferred benefits. Its unusual 
for a lay person to seek professional advice and then go against the recommendations 
received.
It is also the case, given what TFE knew about Mr Ss circumstances and that by transferring 
hed be eroding the value of his pension benefits, it couldve decided against facilitating the 
transaction. But it decided to proceed.
I think its of note that Mr Ss interest in transferring his pension benefits seems to have been 
sparked by the Trustees of his DB Scheme. It wasnt something he was thinking about until it 
introduced him to TFEs services.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Mr Ss DB pension could sensibly be regarded as 
fair to him. As such I think TFE failed to meet the regulatory requirements placed on it when 
providing him with such advice and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against TFE and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. Towergate Financial (East) Limited should pay Mr S the amount 
produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Towergate Financial (East) Limited pays Mr S the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. TFE doesnt have to do what 
I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr S can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance-https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Towergate Financial (East) Limited to put Mr S, 
as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I 
consider Mr S wouldve remained in his DB scheme had he received fuller information, better 
guidance and effective advice.
Towergate Financial (East) Limited should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line 
with the pension review methodology, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
Towergate Financial (East) Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ss contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss would be tax- 
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date 
Towergate Financial (East) Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes TFE to pay Mr S.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Towergate Financial (East) Limited 
deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. It should give Mr S a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Towergate Financial 
(East) Limited should now put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman