DRN-3029783
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the decision by Aspen Insurance UK Limited to turn 
down a subsidence claim under a property owners insurance policy.
 
What happened
Before Mrs S bought her property in 2017, a pre-purchase survey showed there was 
suspected subsidence to the main house and annexe. The owner at the time held a 
property owners policy with Aspen and, before the property was sold to Mrs S, they 
initiated a subsidence claim. They then assigned the subsidence claim to Mrs S with 
Aspens agreement. That policy had started on 1 April 2016 and ended on 31 March 
2018.
Aspen investigated the claim and carried out monitoring at the property. It said there was 
no ongoing movement at the house. However, it found there was ongoing movement to 
the annexe. It thought this was due to nearby trees, and so it asked Mrs S to remove 
these.
Aspen then turned down the claim. It thought the movement had happened before the 
policy had been taken out by the previous policyholder, or after the policy had ended. 
Aspen also thought the annexes foundations were insufficient.
Unhappy with this, Mrs S brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Aspen had 
shown that the annexes foundations were defective. However, she didnt think Aspen 
needed to accept the claim because she thought the evidence supported that the 
subsidence damage had pre-dated the start of the policy. The investigator accepted there 
was some ongoing subsidence, but she thought that was because the previous owner 
hadnt done anything to mitigate their losses.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 August 2021. Heres what I said:
Foundations
Aspen says the annexes foundations were too shallow and industry guidelines 
werent followed. It thinks this is what has led to the subsidence.
The policy excludes subsidence damage resulting from defective design or workmanship 
or the use of defective materials.
The annexe was added to the property in 1999. Mrs S has provided a document from 
building control from 2000 which shows that the building work had been completed in 
accordance with building regulations. That document doesnt specifically comment on the 
depth of the foundations, though the council has since confirmed that its inspection 
records relating to the foundations were that the excavations were all at 1.5 deep, and 
that it was ok to concrete on that basis.
When site investigations took place at the property, a trial hole was dug at the rear of 
the annexe. It was found to have foundations at a depth of 1.1m. Tree roots were 
found at a depth of 2.5m.
Aspen has referred to guidance issued by a builder of new homes (that Ill call N). It 
thinks the foundation depth ought to have been 2.5m (according to N). However, Ns 
guidance only applied to builders and developers working for N. I havent seen any 
evidence that the builder of the annexe was working for N, and therefore had to adhere to 
Ns guidance or standards. It therefore wouldnt be fair to assess the depth of the 
foundations based on Ns guidance.
The annexe was subject to building regulations, and so these are the standards that ought 
to be taken into account when considering whether the design of the foundations was 
faulty. Aspen hasnt provided any evidence to support that the foundations didnt meet 
building regulations.
I note that building control referred to all excavations as being 1.5m deep, but Aspens 
trial hole at the annexe showed the foundations were 1.1m deep. I dont know why there 
was a difference there, but I still dont think that Aspen has shown the annexes 
foundations of 1.1m didnt meet building regulations at the time. And so I agree with our 
investigator that Aspen cant rely on this exclusion to turn down the claim.
Subsidence
The policy excludes subsidence damage which originated prior to the inception of 
the insurance policy.
Aspen arranged for a structural engineering company (that Ill call Company S) to carry 
out an inspection in February 2018. They observed crack damage to the main property 
as well as the annexe. They thought the damage to the extension had been the result of 
thermal expansion, and said the vast majority of the cracking and distortion appeared to 
be long- standing, though they accepted there was evidence that some of the cracking 
may be more recent. In respect of the annexe, they thought there appeared to be 
subsidence in the rear right corner of the bedroom.
Monitoring then took place. Aspen hasnt been able to provide all the evidence we 
requested relating to the monitoring, but it has provided information from Company S in 
2019 which referred to the damage to the main house as being historic settlement rather 
than ongoing subsidence. However, Company S did accept that there was ongoing 
subsidence to the annexe. They thought some nearby trees were responsible for the 
ongoing movement, and so Mrs S had these removed in May 2019.
Although Company S then anticipated that stability would be achieved by November 
2019, I understand that didnt happen because Mrs S was asked by Aspen in 2020 to 
remove another tree that was thought to be causing ongoing movement.
The issue for me to decide is whether there was any subsidence to the annexe whilst 
the policy was in force, which was 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2018. On balance, I think 
its reasonable to say that there was. Ill explain why.
Although the subsidence investigations only started in November 2017, the surveyor who 
inspected the property in October 2017 thought there was evidence of movement to the 
annexe. Crucially, Company Ss report of March 2018 (which was written before the policy 
ended) referred to Mrs S completing decoration work within the annexe towards the end of 2017, but said that cracking had been observed since then and in the same location as 
before. It said a diagonal crack was located to the rear right corner of the bedroom 
doorway, and they had observed photos of the crack prior to repair and could confirm that 
its appearance was typical of a downward movement. They said that based on the type of 
cracking, and the recent reoccurrence of damage, they thought there was subsidence in 
that area.
Monitoring then took place after the policy had ended, and this confirmed that there 
was ongoing subsidence to the annexe.
Given that the cause of subsidence (the trees) wasnt removed until May 2019 and May 
2020, and Company Ss evidence from March 2018 supports that movement took place 
after Mrs S had moved in to the property at the end of November 2017, I think its 
reasonable to say that subsidence had taken place at the annexe whilst the policy was in 
force.
Consequently, I think Aspen should deal with the claim for subsidence for the annexe. 
Its not clear from the information weve been given whether stability has now been 
achieved at the annexe following the removal of the nearby trees, but if not, Aspen will 
need to address this. It wont be responsible for repairing any historic subsidence 
damage, but if it cant separate the damage that occurred before the policy began and 
the damage that occurred after that, then it should repair all the damage.
I havent seen any evidence that there was ongoing subsidence to the main house whilst 
the policy was in force, and I understand that Mrs S accepts that.
Mrs S paid for the trees to be removed on her property. The approach of this service is 
that the insurer should be responsible for this cost. I therefore intend to require Aspen to 
reimburse Mrs S for this.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make. 
Aspen responded to say that, after reviewing the matter in great detail, it had decided to 
accept my provisional decision and didnt have any further comments to make. 
Mrs S responded to say she accepted my provisional decision. However, she pointed 
out that shed paid £810 for a surveyors opinion, and asked that I consider including this 
cost in my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S explains that she paid £810 for a surveyors opinion, as she wanted to see if Aspens 
grounds for refusing the claim were reasonable. 
I read Mrs Ss surveyors opinion before I reached my provisional decision, though I didnt 
think it added much detail to the matter, which is why I didnt refer to it. 
I usually think its reasonable for an insurer to reimburse the cost of an expert a consumer 
has paid for, if that experts evidence changes the outcome of the claim. Though here, I dont 
think Mrs Ss surveyor added much to the matter either way. Ill explain why.
The surveyor said the claim for subsidence was accepted in October 2018, which was ten months after Aspens loss adjuster inspected the property. And that clearly the evidence that 
the damage occurred prior to April 2016 couldnt have been compelling. The surveyor then 
said that the claim couldnt be declined based on there being pre-inception damage because 
although there were internal vertical cracks, he thought vertical cracks werent consistent 
with subsidence damage.
I dont think the surveyors evidence was persuasive, as it didnt provide much detail about 
why he thought the subsidence was ongoing rather than simply historic (other than his 
comment about the cracks being vertical, but that alone isnt very persuasive). Therefore, I 
can understand why Aspen didnt change its claims decision based on the surveyors 
opinion. 
I dont think it was necessary for Mrs S to obtain a surveyors opinion before bringing a 
complaint to this service, she could have brought a complaint here without doing so. I 
therefore dont require Aspen to reimburse her for the cost of the surveyor.
Neither party provided any other comments, and so Im satisfied that my provisional findings 
should stand, and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aspen Insurance Limited to 
deal with the claim for subsidence damage to the annexe in line with the policy terms. It 
wont be responsible for repairing any historic subsidence damage, but if it cant 
separate the damage that occurred before the policy began and the damage that 
occurred after that, then it should repair all the damage.
I also require Aspen to reimburse Mrs S for the cost of removing the trees on the 
property. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date she 
paid the invoice/s to the date of settlement*.
* If Aspen considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman