DRN-2944104
The complaint
Mr T complains about issues hes experienced with a car acquired with finance from Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr T was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
BMF.
Mr T experienced several issues with the car, some of which he complained to BMF about. 
Within the first few weeks of getting the car, the radiator and the battery were replaced by 
the dealership under warranty.
More recently, Mr T has experienced the car juddering when pulling away. He thinks this is a 
gearbox issue. Mr T believes that the gearbox shouldve been serviced every 3 years or 
37,500 miles. He says that no service was carried out in 2018, prior to him acquiring the car.
Mr T arranged for the car to be inspected by a main dealer. It advised him that the rear 
bushes didnt meet MOT guidelines because they werent properly connected and could lead 
to uneven tyre wear.
Following this, in September 2019, Mr T contacted BMF to advise that there were faults with 
the gearbox and engine vibration issues. Mr T had been unable to get the gearbox serviced 
under the warranty because the previous owner hadnt had it serviced in 2018.
The most recent issues with the car are smoke coming from the exhaust, misfiring and a 
burning smell, all of which Mr T says have made the car undriveable.
BMF arranged an independent inspection. This concluded that there was a 
gearbox/transmission fault but that this wouldnt have been present at the point of supply. It 
rejected Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator explained to Mr T that this service couldnt look at some of his comap.int 
points because hed brought them to this service out of time. She said she could look into Mr 
Ts most recent complaint, which was in relation to the smoke coming from the exhaust and 
the misfire. The investigator said that although there was a fault with the car, the evidence 
suggested that this wasnt a fault which had been present or developing at the point of 
supply. She said it was more likely that the fault was due to wear and tear.
Mr T didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMF supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid.
I would expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr T  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require repirs more often than, say, a brand new car. So, in order to 
uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the 
car, as opposed to a fault due to general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months of the point 
of supply, theres a presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of 
supply and its generally up to the business to put things right. After 6 months, the burden of 
proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
Im only able to look at complaints which have been referred to this service in time. So, whilst 
Im aware that Mr T has previously complained to BMF about other issues with the car, I can 
only consider the complaint that hes referred in time which relate to the misfire and the 
exhaust smoking.
Ive looked at the inspection report following the inspection which took place in March 2021. 
This found that the engine was mis-firing, causing thick white smoke to come from the 
exhaust. The inspector concluded that the car wasnt roadworthy because of the fault. He 
also concluded that the fault wouldnt have been present or developing at the point of supply 
because the misfire and smoke wouldve been easily noticed.
Im persuaded by the inspectors conclusions. I dont doubt that the car has a fault, but the 
evidence suggest that this fault wasnt present of developing at the point of supply. If it had 
been, I wouldve expected Mr T to have reported a misfire and/or smoke at the time. Based 
on what Ive seen, Mr T didnt report the misfire until December 2020, which is around 20 
months since the point of supply.
Ive taken the age and mileage of the car into consideration. At the point of supply the car 
was around 9 years old and had covered around 80,000 miles. As Ive already said, Id 
expect a second hand car of this age and mileage to have some wear and tear, which 
makes it more likely to develop faults.  Looking at the available evidence, I think its more 
likely that the misfire and smoking is due to a fault which has been caused by general wear 
and tear.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. So I wont be asking BMF to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman