DRN-2878293
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how HDI Global Speciality SE handled and settled a claim she made 
under her household insurance following an escape of water.
What happened
 Mrs B held a buildings and contents insurance policy with HDI, which commenced on 30 
January 2020. 
On 9 December 2020, a removal company attended Mrs Bs home to remove large items of 
furniture and the contents of her garage as she was due to complete on the sale of her 
property a week later. Mrs B exchanged contracts with her buyers on 11 December 2020.
On 16 December, Mrs B met her buyers at her home in order to hand over the keys. At this 
point, she noticed thered been an escape of water within her home. She said, while the 
lounge ceiling was badly stained, it was dry. But the lounge carpet was saturated with water. 
Mrs B thought the leak had occurred on or after 11 December.
On 21 December, Mrs B used HDIs online portal to make a claim under her policy. By this 
time, shed moved into her new home. However, her policy at her previous property had 
remained in place at the time the damage had occurred.
Mrs B said HDI were dismissive of her claim  it informed her that her buyer should claim 
under their own insurance policy, which it assumed theyd taken out. Mrs B also stated that 
HDI had declined her claim because it believed that her property had been unoccupied and 
unfurnished on the date of loss, which it said invalidated the policy. It told her that it had 
contacted the purchasers of her property whod stated that the escape of water had 
originated from the shower within the main bedroom. Theyd also informed HDI that theyd 
decided not to pursue a claim under their policy.
Mrs B wasnt happy with HDIs approach to her claim. So, she referred a complaint to our 
service. Our investigator considered the evidence Mrs B and HDI had provided and 
recommended partially upholding this complaint. He thought the damaged carpet wasnt 
covered under Mrs Bs policy from the point of exchange of contracts until completion of the 
sale. But he thought HDI had provided poor service in how it had dealt with the claim. And 
he recommended that HDI pay Mrs B £100 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset 
that shed had caused. HDI accepted the outcome of this complaint. But Mrs B disagreed 
and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to learn of the difficulties Mrs B and her family experienced between the 
exchange and completion of their house move. I can see the strength of feeling Mrs B has 
about this complaint. 
Mrs B has sent submissions in response to our investigators view of her complaint. I want to 
assure her that Ive read and considered everything that both she and HDI have sent when 
reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mrs Bs raised as Ive focused on 
what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mrs B wont take that as a discourtesy, my 
approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
This service is an informal dispute resolution service. When considering what is fair and 
reasonable, Im required to take into account a number of matters, which include relevant 
law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, the terms 
and conditions of any insurance policy and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the relevant time. Im not limited to the position a court might reach. 
And having considered all the available evidence, Ive reached the same overall conclusions 
as those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Theres a specific term and condition in Mrs Bs policy that applies when a policyholder is 
moving home. It states the following:
If you are selling the home and the buyer has not arranged their own insurance, the buyer 
will have the benefit of Section 1 - Buildings between exchange of contracts or conclusion of 
missives, and the completion date, providing the buyer completes the purchase.
In this case Mrs Bs buyers completed their purchase. But its unclear whether they held their 
own policy insurance at between exchange and completion. The above term clearly outlines 
that if Mrs Bs buyers didnt hold insurance between those material dates theyre entitled to 
the benefit of cover under her policy. This cover only applies to buildings though  theres 
nothing in Mrs Bs policy to extend contents cover to buyers during this period.
Mrs B told our service that the carpet was badly damaged and had to be uplifed and 
discarded as a result of the escape of water. So, Ive considered the definition of contents 
and buildings within the policy to determine how the carpet would be classified. 
On page 9 of the policy it clearly states that buildings does not include......carpets whether 
fitted or not. It follows that the carpet would have to be considered under the contents part 
of the policy, which doesnt apply to a buyer in the period between exchange of contracts 
and completion for the reasons set out above.
I can see that HDI repudiated Mrs Bs claim on the basis that it believed that her property 
was unfurnished and unoccupied at the date of loss. Under Mrs Bs policy, damage caused 
by an escape of water is excluded in these cirucmstances. 
The term unfurnished is defined in the policy as without enough furniture and furnishings 
for normal living purposes. So, Ive looked to see whether repudiating Mrs Bs claim based 
on that exclusion was fair and reasonable.
Mrs B told our investigator that, while her and her son had vacated their home, her husband 
had continued to live at the property pending completion of the sale of their home. She also 
said the property was habitable as there were still a large number of items of furniture and 
furnishings there after 9 December. 
Mrs B has satisfied me, as she did our investigator, that her property was both occupied and 
adequately furnished at the time the escape of water occurred. It was therefore plainly wrong 
and unfair for HDI to seek to rely on an unoccupied and unfurnished exclusion clause as that 
didnt apply here.However, while HDI erred in applying the escape of water exclusion cause, Im satisfied that 
its reliance on that exclusion clause wouldnt have ultimately changed the outcome of this 
claim. I say this because, as Ive already explained, the damaged carpet would be defined 
as contents under Mrs Bs policy and contents cover doesnt extend to a buyer between 
exchange of contracts and completion. That said, I can understand how frustrating and 
stressful it must have been for Mrs B to be told that her claim had been repudiated on the 
basis of an exclusion clause that didnt apply.
I think HDI could have been clearer with Mrs B at the outset of her claim as regards what her 
policy did and didnt cover. I also think it could have better investigated the circumstances of 
the claim before reaching its declinature decision. Had it done so, Mrs B wouldnt have felt so 
dismissed. And this could have reduced the distress and inconvenience she experienced. It 
would also have provided a more sound and defensible basis for the repudiation decision 
that HDI had reached.
  
Putting things right
 When our investigator issued his view of this complaint, he recommended that HDI pay 
£100 compensation to Mrs B to reflect the distress and inconvenence she was caused as a 
result of the service issues she experienced. 
HDI has agreed to pay this sum. But, as Mrs B rejected our investigators recommendation, 
Ive assessed whether the level of compensation our investigator recommended 
appropriately recognises the trouble and upset she was caused.
Our service isnt here to punish businesses. When deciding what potential compensation to 
award I must take two things into account: financial loss as a result of any business error 
and non-financial loss, including inconvenience and upset. 
When considering awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the business 
actions have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, 
whether compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Ive thought about whether Mrs B suffered a financial loss as a result of what happened. She 
says she paid her buyers £350 towards the cost of new flooring following the damaged 
carpet being uplifted. But, as Ive already explained, the carpet would be insured as contents 
and that cover doesnt extend to a buyer under this policy pending the completion of the 
sale. It wouldnt be fair or impatrial of me to tell HDI to cover the cost of something that isnt 
covered by the policy. And that means that I cant make an award to reflect any financial loss 
that Mrs B says she incurred.
Having thought very carefully about what happened, Im satisfied that the £100 
compensation recommended by our investigator is a fair amount of compensation thats 
proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that Mrs B would have been caused here. I 
havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a higher award is warranted here. Im 
persuaded that the amount recommended is in line with our approach in similar scenarios  
its also in keeping with what Id have told HDI to pay had no compensation award already 
been considered.
I appreciate that Mrs B feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything shes said. But Im satisfied HDI correctly repudiated this 
claim, albeit for a different reason. And Im persuaded that the compensation our investigator 
recommended fairly recognises what happened. So I wont be directing HDI to pay any 
more.My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. HDI Global Speciality SE should pay 
Mrs B £100 in compensation to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman