DRN-3650882
The complaint
Mr S complains that his bank Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has refused to refund him the 
money he has lost having fallen victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr S was in communication with a company called bit-market.io (BM). BM 
promised Mr S large returns if he agreed to invest in Bitcoin with it. Mr S agreed and paid 
money to separate companies as instructed by BM that was then moved on to BM.
Mr S paid a total of around £8,500 between December 2020 and February 2021 from his 
Lloyds current account using his Visa debit card.
BM took control of the funds and used them to trade. Mr S saw the funds start to deteriorate 
and BM refused to return Mr Ss funds to him.
Mr S believes he has become the victim of a scam and that Lloyds should have done more 
to prevent his loss.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said it 
wasnt possible to recover Mr Ss funds by requesting a chargeback and the payments he 
made were not unusual, or suspicious enough to have triggered Lloyds fraud prevention 
systems. So, he didnt think Lloyds was responsible for Mr Ss loss and didnt think it would 
be reasonable to ask Lloyds to refund him.
Mr S disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder directly.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr S was dealing with BM which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr S didnt 
make the debit card payments to BM directly, he paid different seemingly legitimate 
businesses (CITREX, Veritex, LHV RANK). This is important because Lloyds would only 
have been able to process chargeback claims against these merchants as they were the 
ones Mr S had made the payments to, not another party (such as BM).
The service provided by the businesses Mr S paid would have been to convert or facilitate 
conversion of Mr Ss payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, they provided the service that 
was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to BM  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Mr S paid.
Mr S also contacted Lloyds about the payments more than 120 days after he made them 
which is outside of the time allowed for this option. 
As the service requested by the businesses Mr S paid was provided, chargeback wasnt an 
option for Mr S, so I dont think it was unreasonable that Lloyds didnt pursue this further.
In addition to the chargeback option, Ive also thought about whether Lloyds could 
reasonably have prevented some or all Mr Ss loss. 
Mr S has accepted he authorised the payments he made from his Visa debit card. So, the 
starting point here is that Mr S is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services 
Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud 
and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
Mr S made the following payments from his Lloyds account between December 2020 and 
February 2021:
1. 9 December 2020 - £250.00 CITREX.IO
2. 15 December 2020 - £1,000.00 Veritex
3. 17 December 2020 - £1,250.00 Veritex
4. 22 December 2020 - £4,999.00 Veritex
5. 22 February 2021 - £1,000.00 LHV RANK
In total Mr S made payments for a total of just under £8,500. 
It would be unreasonable to suggest that Lloyds should intervene in every payment its 
customers make  particularly payments that are to legitimate businesses (as was the case 
here). When considering the payments in dispute here, I dont think when taken individually 
or collectively, Lloyds would have had reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam was 
taking place. The payments Mr S made were spaced out over several weeks and were all for 
a relatively low value with no individual payment exceeding £4,999. 
I have looked at Mr Ss bank statement and can see he has previously made large payments 
using his debit card, for example he made a £10,000 payment on 16 April 2020. So again, I 
dont think the payments Mr S was making would have caused Lloyds concern.
Mr S says that with Lloyds experience it should have been able to prevent this scam. Mr S 
has also given several other reasons he thinks Lloyds should refund him for his loss 
including the responsibilities Lloyds has to protect its customers from fraud and scams. But 
as Ive explained above, I dont think Lloyds would reasonably have been aware of the scam, 
therefore it wasnt able to step in. So, Lloyds is not responsible for Mr Ss loss and doesnt 
have to make any refund to him.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman