DRN-4314614
Complaint
Miss R has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as 
Everyday Loans) provided to her. She says the loans were unaffordable and were 
therefore irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Miss R with an initial loan for £1,000.00 in September 2021. This 
loan had an APR of 249.5% and a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £2,431.62, including interest, fees and charges of £1,431.62, was due to be repaid 
in 18 monthly instalments of £135.09. This loan was settled early with some of the proceeds 
of loan 2 in July 2022.
Everyday Loans then provided Miss R with a second loan for £2,500.00 in July 2022. 
£869.18 went towards repaying the outstanding balance on loan 1. This loan had an APR of 
191.5% and a term of 30 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£7,797.60, including interest, fees and charges of £5,297.60, was due to be repaid in 30 
monthly instalments of £259.92. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Rs complaint and eventually reached the conclusion 
that Everyday Loans ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Miss R with loan 
1 but that it didnt do anything wrong when providing loan 2. So she thought that Miss Rs 
complaint should be partially upheld. 
Neither party agreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to an 
ombudsman as per the next step of our dispute resolution process. 
My provisional decision of 7 August 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 7 August 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold           
Miss Rs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Miss Rs complaint. 
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss R could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I was concerned that Everyday Loans own checks in the lead up to loan 1 showed that  
Miss R had had recent difficulties repaying credit in the form of defaults. I could also see that 
Miss R had had a county court judgment obtained against her too. 
I was also concerned that Miss Rs indebtedness increased in the period between loans 1 
and 2. And not only was loan 2 for a larger amount than loan 1, it was also taken out before 
loan 1 had been repaid and in circumstances where thered been late payments on loan 1 as 
well. 
I also considered it important to note that Everyday Loans was required to establish whether 
Miss R could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments 
being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might have been an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably have made their repayments. 
But it didnt automatically follow that this was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to 
borrow further in order to make their payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make 
their repayments if it was on notice that they were unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further. 
Everyday Loans own notes appear to show that Miss R was constantly calling and asking 
for a loan top-up in the months leading up to loan 2. In my view, this indicated a reliance on 
credit. Furthermore, the underwriting notes for loan 2 also appeared to indicate that Every 
Loans was concerned that  Miss R was borrowing from a number of friends and family in the 
period leading up to this loan too. Yet Everyday Loans still chose to ignore what I considered 
to be clear warning signs in preference of what the other information obtained suggested 
were over optimistic assessments of disposable income. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that the information Everyday Loans obtained 
ought reasonably to have alerted it to the fact that Miss R was unlikely to have been able to 
repay these loans without borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty. And I was 
also satisfied that the information Everyday Loans gathered ought to have alerted it to the 
fact that it shouldnt have provided these loans to Miss R. 
As Everyday Loans provided Miss R with these loans, notwithstanding this, I was minded to 
conclude that it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. And this left me intending to 
uphold Miss Rs complaint about both her loans. 
Miss R ended up paying interest, fees and charges on loans she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So it was my intention to find that Miss R lost out because of what Everyday 
Loans did wrong and issue a final decision which directed Everyday Loans to put things 
right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss R confirmed that she was happy with my provisional decision and that she had nothing 
further to add.
Everyday Loans didnt respond to my provisional decision or ask for any additional time to do 
so. My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Miss Rs complaint in my provisional 
decision of 7 August 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties to 
consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still upholding Miss Rs 
complaint and I remain satisfied that Everyday Loans needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Miss R
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Everyday Loans to put things right for Miss R by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss R paid on her loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Miss R to the date of settlement
removing any and all adverse information it recorded about these loans from        
Miss Rs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 7 August 2023, Im 
upholding Miss Rs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman