DRN-3178948
Complaint
Ms G is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has increased the interest rate on her 
overdrafts to 39.95%. She says its unfair to impose such an outrageously high rate on long-
standing customers who have been using overdrafts at a much lower rate.
Background
At the end of 2019, HSBC wrote to Ms G and told her that the way it was charging for 
overdrafts was changing. There would no longer be a distinction between arranged and 
unarranged overdrafts and the APR that would now be applied to her overdrafts was going 
to increase to 39.95%. Ms G complained to HSBC in early 2020  before the new rate came 
in - saying this rate was unfair. 
HSBC didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint. Ms G remained dissatisfied and referred her 
complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Gs concerns. She didnt 
think HSBC had done anything wrong or treated Ms G unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Ms G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Gs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So to 
start with HSBC has made a change that it is entitled to make and it isnt in breach of the law 
or any regulations by increasing the interest rate to 39.95% for longstanding customers, 
even where customers have £10,000.00 limits like Ms G does. 
That said, Im required to consider the broader question of whether HSBCV acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Ms G here. And while its not for me to comment on HSBCs charging 
structure changes per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms G if it 
implemented these changes unfairly. I understand that Ms G is unhappy because she was 
previously able to use her overdraft facilites at a much lower interest rate. 
But while Ms G may have been happier with the lower interest rate its, ultimately, up to 
HSBC how it assesses what interest rate to offer its customers. Thats a business decision 
for it to make. And its not for our service to tell HSBC how to assess applications or say it 
should have offered a lower interest rate in a particular set of circumstances. 
I understand Ms Gs strength of feeling on this matter and why she might be unhappy at 
having to pay a much higher interest rate should she wish to continue using her facility in the 
way she had been previously. But Im satisfied that Ms G was able to exit her overdrafts  
she cleared the balance in full, on her main account, shortly after the changes came in - and 
was or is able to stop using her facility and have it removed, if she doesnt want to pay 
interest at the new rate. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that HSBC implemented these 
overdraft changes in a way that treated Ms G unfairly. It is entitled to charge an interest rate 
of 39.95%, even though Ms G is a longstanding customer. Furthermore, as the terms and 
conditions permitted these changes in the first place and the changes arent unlawful, it 
follows that Im not upholding Ms Gs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman