DRN-2931368
The complaint
Ms B complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Ms B was provided with nine loans by Mr Lender between December 2016 and January
2020. The table below sets out the details of the loans.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount 
1 22/12/2016 22/03/2017 3 £500.00
2 22/03/2017 28/03/2017 3 £400.00
3 02/04/2017 22/06/2017 3 £400.00
4 04/09/2017 22/11/2017 3 £410.00
5 18/12/2017 21/12/2017 6 £500.00
6 22/05/2018 10/11/2018 6 £1,000.00
7 11/11/2018 20/12/2019 12 £1,500.00
8 30/12/2019 25/01/2020 3 £200.00
9 29/01/2020 24/09/2020 12 £1,500.00
Ms B says the lending was unaffordable and that she had several other short term loans at 
the time and a poor credit score. Ms B says the loans added to her financial difficulties 
putting her further in debt. She says this caused her health issues including anxiety and that 
her house was sold and she now cant get a mortgage due to the impact the short term loans 
are having on her credit file.
Mr Lender provided information about the loans provided and the checks it undertook. 
Before the loans were provided it gathered information about Ms Bs income and expenses 
and carried out credit checks. Mr Lender noted the breaks in the lending.
Our adjudicator noted Mr Lenders comments about the breaks in its lending but he didnt 
think these were significant and so he considered all of the loans as part of the same lending 
chain. Our adjudicator didnt think he had enough to say that the first three loans shouldnt 
have been provided but he didnt think loans 4 to 9 should have been lent. He thought that 
by loan 4, Ms Bs pattern of borrowing showed she had become persistently reliant on the 
loans.
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that at loan 4 there had been a 
break in lending of 75 days and that loan 6 was approved 152 days after the previous loan 
which it said showed Ms B wasnt reliant on the loans. It also thought that the break in the 
lending at loan 6 meant a new lending chain should be started. Regarding loans 6 and 7 it 
said Ms B explained her reasons for the loans and this explained why she needed an 
increased amount of funds. It believed its checks were proportionate.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional on this decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
There wasnt enough evidence to say that loans 1 to 3 shouldnt have been provided. 
The gap in lending between loans 3 and 4 wasnt long enough to say that there was 
a break in the lending chain, but I took the gap into consideration. The loan was for 
£410 repayable over three monthly instalments and I didnt think at this stage Ms Bs 
pattern of lending was such that it showed she was persistently reliant on the loans. I 
considered the repayment amounts due compared to Ms Bs declared income, her 
repayment history on previous loans and the point in the lending relationship, and I 
found the checks carried out were sufficient. As these didnt raise concerns about the 
affordability of the loan I didnt think I could say this loan shouldnt have been 
provided.
Loan 5 was taken out less than a week after loan 4 was repaid. At this stage I 
thought that further checks should have taken place to establish whether the loan 
was sustainably affordable. However, I didnt see anything to show me that had 
further checks been carried out Mr Lender would have realised this loan wasnt 
sustainably affordable.
There was a break in the lending between loan 5 being repaid and loan 6 being 
provided. The gap was for five months and while I noted Mr Lenders comments 
about this, having considered the duration over which Ms B had been borrowing from 
it against this break in borrowing, I didnt find it was enough to say that there was a 
break in the lending chain. Therefore, I considered this loan as the sixth in the chain. 
That said, I took the break into consideration and I didnt find I could say that Ms Bs 
pattern of borrowing at this time was enough to say she was persistently reliant on 
the loans. 
I noted the loan repayments on this loan were just under 25% of Ms Bs monthly 
income which was a high proportion and I thought further checks should have taken 
place before the loan was provided. However, without further evidence I didnt find I 
had enough to say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Loan 7 was for a much higher amount and was repayable over a longer term of 12 
months. I thought by this stage it would have been reasonable to say that Mr Lender 
should have been concerned about Ms Bs reliance on this type of debt. Ms B had 
taken out seven loans and had been borrowing from Mr Lender for just under two 
years. Ms B took out loan 7 the day after repaying loan 6. I noted the comment about 
the purpose of the loan but given Ms Bs previous borrowing, the overall time she had 
been indebted to Mr Lender and that the amount she was borrowing was increasing, 
as was the term of the loans, I didnt think it was reasonable to consider this loan 
sustainably repayable.
While loan 8 was for a lower amount and shorter term, given the timing of this loan 
and that Ms B had a deferral on her previous loan I didnt think that Ms Bs situation 
had changed from the previous loan and so I didnt think it reasonable this loan was 
provided.
Loan 9 was for £1,500 and was provided a few days after loan 8 was repaid. As 
noted above, based on Ms Bs borrowing history, the number of loans taken out by this time and the duration in which she had been indebted to Mr Lender I didnt think 
this loan should have been provided.
Overall, I thought Ms Bs complaint should be upheld for loans 7 to 9.
Ms B agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out 
proportionate checks to make sure that Ms B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent the repayment amounts and the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. And, there may 
even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Ms B could sustainably repay her loans - not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
As I previously set out, I do not think that I have enough evidence to say that loans 1 to 6 
shouldnt have been provided. However, by loan 7 I think that Mr Lender should have been 
concerned about Ms Bs reliance on this type of debt. As no new information was provided in 
response to my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed, and I am upholding 
this decision in regard to loans 7 to 9.
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans 7 to 9.
In deciding what redress PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should fairly pay in this 
case Ive thought about what might have happened had it stopped lending to Ms B after 
loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.For example, having been declined this lending Ms B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Based on the above, PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should:
refund all interest and charges that Ms B paid on loans 7 to 9;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
the number of loans taken from loan 7 means any information recorded about them is 
adverse. So, all entries about loans 7 to 9 should be removed from Ms B's credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should provide Ms B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should take the actions 
set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman