DRN-3707138
The complaint
Mr A complaints PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA has not refunded him for an item he paid 
for but didnt receive. 
What happened
Mr A says he purchased an e-bike online for around £1,000. He also had to pay an 
additional £40 for an import shipping fee. 
Mr A tracked the parcel using the couriers tracking facility and waited at home all day for 
delivery. Mr A says the item never arrived. When he checked the tracker the parcel was 
marked as delivered saying left at front door. 
Since Mr A had been at home waiting for the parcel he contacted the seller who said the 
item had been delivered but was unable to provide proof. The seller told Mr A there was 
nothing more they could do. 
Mr A says he has lost over £1,000 for something he didnt receive, together with the cost of 
the import fee. He says he didnt even receive proof of delivery. Mr A says he wants a refund 
for the item and compensation for the stress and time it has taken to try and resolve the 
matter. 
PayPal said it was satisfied the item was delivered to Mr As property. And its user 
agreement stipulates a purchaser doesnt qualify for a refund under its buyer protection if the 
seller has provided proof of delivery. PayPal said the claim was closed correctly since the 
seller provided tracking information.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with the response from PayPal and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him and said she didnt think the tracking 
information showed the item was delivered to Mr As address. She said PayPal should 
refund Mr A for the cost of the item plus the £40 import fee, together with £50 to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A. 
PayPal didnt agree and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where information is unclear or incomplete, as is the case here, I reach my conclusion on 
the balance of probabilities. My decision is based on what I think is more likely to have 
happened than not. 
PayPals user agreement includes protection for buyers. It provides for buyers to be able to 
claim their money back where goods they have purchased havent been received. 
After Mr A raised his claim with PayPal the seller provided tracking information in response 
to the claim. the tracking information provides details of the date, address, and time of 
delivery. The delivery information says the parcel was left at the front door. So PayPal 
closed the claim. 
But Mr A says he was at home all day and the parcel wasnt left at the door. And the tracking 
information doesnt explicitly show the parcel was delivered to Mr As address. It has a 
different postcode. So I dont think what the seller has provided counts as evidence of 
delivery since Mr As version of events is entirely possible. Even when taking the sellers 
evidence into consideration. 
The difficulty I have is I dont have enough evidence to safely say the item was delivered to 
Mr A. I have seen a copy of the tracking information. But I dont think it shows the item was 
delivered to Mr As address. The trail leads to the front door of a different postcode. 
Since Im not satisfied the item was delivered to Mr As address based on the evidence Ive 
seen, Im upholding the complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA must; 
1. Refund Mr A for the cost of the item £1005.61
2. Refund Mr A £40.06 for the duty paid 
3. Pay Mr A £50 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I direct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to put things right by 
doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman