DRN-4103934
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G complain about Accelerant Insurance Limiteds (Accelerant) decision to 
decline cover for their buildings insurance claim.  
What happened
Mrs G and Mr G say they noticed damp in their home and felt this was caused by a leak 
following storm conditions. They reported this to Accelerant who instructed a loss adjuster to 
look into the cause of the damage. The loss adjuster found the issues related to gradual 
wear and tear, so Accelerant declined the claim on the basis this was excluded by the policy. 
They also explained there werent any storm conditions in place around the time Mrs G and 
Mr G reported the claim. Mrs G and Mr G complained about the decision and about the 
delay in receiving Accelerants decision letter. Accelerant responded and upheld their 
decision to decline the claim. They explained, while they did initially speak with Mrs G and 
Mr G to communicate their decision, they accepted there was then a delay in sending a 
formal declinature letter, for which they apologised.      
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs G and Mr G. She thought Accelerant hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. Mrs G and Mr G disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs G and Mr G will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mrs G and Mr Gs home insurance policy. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says theyre covered for damage caused by storm. It defines a storm as 
Strong winds in excess of 47 knots (54 MPH) that may be accompanied by heavy rain, 
snow or sleet, prolonged rainfall and weight of snow. So, Im satisfied that Accelerant 
shouldve looked into Mrs G and Mr Gs claim because they reported the damage was 
caused by a storm. Ive then looked at whether Accelerants decision to decline the claim, 
and their reason for doing so, is fair and reasonable.      
In order for us to consider whether the damage was caused by a storm, we ask three 
questions: 
 Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have happened? 
 Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage? 
If the answer is yes to all three questions, were likely to uphold the complaint. But if the 
answer to one of the questions is 'no' we're unlikely to conclude that the claim should be met 
due to storm conditions.
In weighing up the first question, I note Mrs G and Mr G reported to Accelerant that they first 
noticed damage in December 2021  with further damage discovered in April 2022. 
Accelerant say theyve checked weather reports but couldnt identify any storm conditions 
around the date of loss. I can see our investigator has obtained weather reports for the 
period around when Mrs G and Mr G first say they noticed damage  and this doesnt show 
any storm conditions, which fall within the policy definition, occurred at the time. That means 
the answer to the first question is no.    
 
So, ordinarily, I would conclude on this alone that Accelerant havent acted unfairly in 
declining the claim and I wouldnt proceed to consider the remaining two questions. But in 
this case, Mrs G and Mr G dont appear to be certain when the damage occurred as they 
referred to December 2021 and April 2022 in their conversations with Accelerant. So, even if 
I was to accept there were storm conditions and the damage claimed in this instance is 
consistent with damage typically caused by a storm, I would still need to consider whether 
the storm was the main cause for the damage in this instance. And, in this case, I cant say a 
storm was the main cause for the damage.  
The terms and conditions set out what factors arent covered by the policy under the heading 
General Exclusions. This says Any damage caused bywear, tear or depreciation;other 
gradual deterioration. The terms and conditions also say Accelerant wont cover damage 
caused by failure of or lack of sealant and/or grout. It also goes further to say, under the 
heading Reasonable care, You must maintain your property in a good state of repair and 
you must also take all reasonable steps to prevent accidents, injury or damage.  
Insurers often appoint experts experienced in this type of work to look at the damage, and 
thats what Accelerant did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Accelerant to 
rely on the experts report when deciding whether to meet the claim. In this case, Accelerant 
instructed a loss adjuster and a damage specialist to assess the cause of the damage. The 
report from the damage specialist describes a range of tests they carried out to identify the 
damage and its cause. The damage specialist carried out a tracer test, tracer dye tests, 
water meter test and salt tests. 
They then concluded there were numerous issues at the property. They found an issue with 
shower seals and grout which was causing damage to the kitchen ceiling and an issue with 
the waste pipe. They also found an issue with rainwater ingress from the roof, mortar and 
other gaps around the property and an issue with blocked drainage. Theyve provided 
photos and videos which support their findings. Theyve then set out recommendations 
which all relate to work required to correct issues caused by wear and tear and poor 
maintenance. On the report, theres a question which asks if the leak is non-insurable and 
the damage specialist has noted Underlying building issues/poor maintenance/wear & 
tear: Yes   
The loss adjuster has then said, based on their own findings and that of the damage 
specialists, I consider the development of the damage at the risk address and given the 
multiple issues evidence that the property is suffering from a lack of maintenance. The loss 
adjuster says they believe the damage is down to longstanding maintenance issues 
which have been left for a prolonged / extended period and gradually operating causes. 
Taking this into account, I cant say Accelerant have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining the claim. Theyve instructed suitable experts here to investigate the damage and 
theyve relied on the experts findings to arrive at their decision.
I note Mrs G and Mr G are concerned about Accelerants delay in issuing a declinature letter. 
I can see once Accelerant received all reports and confirmed their decision to decline the 
claim, they contacted Mr G to inform him of their decision. I can see they did agree, during the call, to send a declinature letter  but this wasnt sent until just over a month later. I can 
see Accelerant have apologised for this, and I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because, while I acknowledge Mrs G and Mr G were left frustrated 
at having to wait for a formal declinature in writing, I believe the impact was limited as 
Accelerant did communicate their decision promptly, so Mrs G and Mr G werent left waiting 
for an outcome to their claim.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G and Mr G as I can see they firmly believe the damage to their 
property is as a direct result of storm conditions. I do want to reassure them that I have 
carefully considered their points and arguments but the evidence Ive seen persuades me 
that there wasnt a storm condition around the time Mrs G and Mr G first discovered the 
damage. But even if there was a storm condition, its more likely than not, this wasnt the 
main cause of the damage. My role is to consider whether Accelerant have acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining the claim. And, for the reasons I have given, I think they have.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman