DRN-4500789
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the settlement paid to him by U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Churchill Insurance (Churchill) following a claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M was involved in a motor accident and his car was damaged, so he made a claim to his 
motor insurer, Churchill. Churchill considered Mr Ms claim and accepted it. Churchill 
declared the car was a total loss, and paid Mr M a settlement amount. This offer was 
£37,700, based on Churchill noting the pre-accident value of Mr Ms car as £38,250, minus a 
£550 policy excess.
Mr M didnt consider this settlement to be fair because he felt the valuation Churchill had 
placed on his car was incorrect. Mr M felt the market value of his car was more than what 
Churchill had said it was. And, Mr M said that Churchill hadnt taken some key factors into 
account when arriving at its valuation  these being that his car was a higher specification, 
rarer model.
Mr M complained to Churchill. It responded and maintained its position. Churchill said it had 
arrived at the valuation by its use of motor trade guides and market research. It was satisfied 
that the valuation its engineers had arrived at was fair. So, it didnt look to increase this.
As Mr M remained dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Having reviewed the complaint, I issued a provisional decision to both parties. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The policys terms and conditions say that Churchill will pay the cost of repairing or 
replacing the car up to its UK market value at the time of a claim.
It defines market value as:
The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model, 
and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
I think its reasonable for the market value to be assessed as the retail price Mr M 
was likely to have to pay for a comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer. The fairest 
way of doing this is by using the standard industry guides. These are based on 
extensive national research of likely selling prices. They can usually provide 
valuations based on the make, model, age, condition and specification of a vehicle.
But, in this particular case, Mr Ms car was uncommon. Hes explained that only a 
limited number of that specific model were produced.
Churchill says it used three guides. It says one provided a value of £38,250 while the 
other two werent able to provide a value, likely due to the rarity of Mr Ms car.
On checking the trade guides, they showed the same information as Churchill found. 
The information from the guide Churchill used also indicated that the guide identified 
Mr Ms car as being the specific model that it was.
Ive reviewed a fourth guide, which provided a valuation of £42,383. Mr M has also 
provided valuations from this guide. For his car, it provided him with a valuation of 
£39,280. And with two other registration numbers of similar cars but of different 
specifications, the guide provided a valuation for both at £39,250. Mr M says this 
shows that this guide doesnt take account of his cars higher specification.
I cant speak to the ways in which this guide provided valuations to Mr M. And Ive 
noted that the information Ive seen from the £42,383 valuation doesnt state that his 
car has been identified as the higher specification model. But, given the higher 
valuation than the one this guide provided to Mr M, I think it likely has taken this into 
account.
Given the rarity of Mr Ms car, and as the trade guide valuations are quite far apart, I 
think other evidence is especially important. Churchill said its engineers found no 
comparable vehicles for sale. It said it saw 2015 models, but they werent like-for-like.
Mr M has provided several adverts, some of which he says he provided to Churchill. 
These adverts dont represent exactly how much Mr Ms car was worth. But they do 
broadly support what Mr M has said  that the specific model of his car tends to 
attain a higher market value.
Mr Ms car was from 2014 with a mileage of 33,000. The closest match to this is an 
advert with an asking price of £42,950.
Mr M has also provided information from two dealerships, which he says were 
provided to Churchill. These gave valuations for his car of £43,000 and £44,000.
Theres no exact science to reaching the market value, and I appreciate that prices 
from adverts and dealerships arent always the price paid in the end. But the 
available evidence suggests a higher market value for Mr Ms car than that reached 
by Churchill. So, I dont think Churchill has fairly valued Mr Ms car.
The industry guides provide a range of values from £38,250 to £42,383. Taking into 
account the additional evidence provided, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Churchill to settle Mr Ms claim in line with the higher guide valuation, of £42,383.
I think Churchill should pay Mr M the difference between this and its original valuation 
of £38,250, which I calculate to be £4,133. It should also pay interest on this sum 
from 22 June 2023 (being the date on which it paid Mr M the lower amount) to the 
date it pays him.
I also think Churchills decision to value Mr Ms car at a lower amount has caused 
him stress and upset. Mr M has said hes suffered loss of enjoyment from being 
unable to replace and continue to use his car  including missing out on travelling to 
a motoring event. I havent seen evidence of this, but I can understand from what Mr 
M has said that it was important to him to replace his car with a like-for-like model, 
which he wasnt able to do with the amount Churchill paid to him. I think this would have caused him further upset and disappointment. For this, I think Churchill should 
pay Mr M compensation of £200.
I set out what I intended to tell Churchill to do to put things right and asked both parties to 
send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to consider.
Responses
Mr M didnt provide any further comments or information for me to consider.
Churchill responded to say that it thought Id dismissed the valuation it had obtained and 
went straight for the higher valuation provided by the fourth guide that I mentioned in my 
provisional decision. Churchill suggested that using an average of the two guides that did 
provide a valuation for Mr Ms car would be a fair compromise. Churchill added that it based 
its valuation on the only guide it had available that provided a value for Mr Ms car, so it 
didnt agree it made an error.
Churchill also said because of the rarity of Mr Ms car it would be difficult for him to replace  
so it didnt think that £200 compensation for Mr Ms disappointment at being unable to 
replace his car was justified.
In light of this, I now think its appropriate to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
I understand Churchill are concerned that Ive relied only on the higher guide and dismissed 
the valuation it obtained. I also understand Churchill used the only guide it had available that 
provided a valuation for Mr Ms car. Id first like to say that our service's approach, based on 
industry guidelines, states that valuations from all available guides should be sought, and 
considered. And on this occasion I can see our service obtained a valuation from a guide 
Churchill didn't use, which presented a higher value. As Churchill had the opportunity to 
obtain a valuation from this guide, I think it's reasonable for me to consider it when thinking 
about what a fair valuation should be.
The two guides that provided a valuation represent a range, and the evidence Ive seen  
including several advertisements from private and auction sales along with testimony from 
two dealerships  persuades me that the higher end of the range most likely represents the 
market value of Mr Ms car. So, I still think its fair that the higher end valuation is paid to Mr 
M in line with the terms of his insurance contract.
I also appreciate Churchills comments that Mr M may have had difficulty replacing his car 
with a truly exact match. But given the extensive market research Mr M has done on the 
same and similar vehicles, Im persuaded that its his intention to replace the car, and I dont 
think the lower valuation enabled him to enter the market at the same price point as he 
should have been able to. And Im satisfied this would have been frustrating and distressing, 
considering hed provided much of the same evidence to Churchill in support of his claim. 
So, I think £200 is the appropriate figure to reflect the trouble and upset caused.Putting things right
Churchill should pay Mr M:
£4,133 to reflect the increased valuation of his vehicle,
Add interest to the above, calculated at 8% simple per year* from 22 June 2023 to 
the date the settlement is paid, and
£200 for distress and inconvenience.
*If Churchill considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Churchill Insurance to settle Mr Ms claim and pay compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Chris Woolaway
Ombudsman