DRN-4036413
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that American Express Service Europe Limited (AESEL) havent returned 
funds to him that were credited back to his closed American Express credit card.
What happened
Mr C had an American Express credit card which was cancelled in December 2020. In May 
2022, Mr C received a refund into the cancelled credit account of £23.81. Several cheques 
were issued to Mr B by AESEL for this amount, but these were never received by Mr C.
In November 2022, Mr C received another refund to the closed credit account, this time for 
£1,168.24. AESEL looked to reimburse this amount back the bank account Mr C had used to 
make payments to the credit card, but they found they were unable to validate the sort-code 
and account number for this account. AESEL therefore asked Mr C to provide proof of the 
payment via their online portal. Mr C uploaded the proof of payment documents AESEL 
asked for, but these were never received by AESEL.
Mr C wasnt happy that AESEL werent reimbursing his money to him, or that he still hadnt 
received a cheque for the earlier amount. So, he raised a complaint. AESEL responded to 
Mr C but didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards him and so didnt uphold the complaint. 
However, AESEL did acknowledge that while they hadnt acted unfairly, Mr C had been 
inconvenienced and frustrated by how matters had unfolded, and they made a payment of 
£25 to him as a goodwill gesture as a result. Mr C wasnt satisfied with AESELs response, 
so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that AESELs response to the 
complaint already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr C remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Regarding the three cheques that AESEL sent to Mr C that werent received by him, Ive 
requested several pieces of information from AESEL which Im satisfied confirm that the 
cheques were sent to Mr Cs correct address  the address that he moved to in 2021 and 
which hes provided to this service as being his address.
While its certainly unusual that three sent cheques wouldnt be received by Mr C, I feel that 
the postal strikes that were taking place around the time of the issuance of these cheques 
may have had an impact here. And this is especially the case given that the letter which was 
sent to Mr C containing the £25 goodwill gesture cheque  which was sent later, at a time 
when the postal strikes werent taking place  was received by him. 
Regarding the larger refund amount which AESEL sought to reimburse to Mr Cs bank 
account but were unable to do so as per their process because they were unable to verify 
the sort-code and account number as belonging to Mr C, I also dont feel that AESEL have 
acted unfairly here. 
AESEL have provided this service with a copy of their process flow which confirms that in 
such circumstances they require proof of purchase to be provided by the customer before 
reimbursing the amount. Its for AESEL to set its processes in this regard, and it isnt within 
the remit of this service to comment on such a process beyond the fairness of the outcome 
thats been reached by the following of that process. 
In this instance, given that the process is clearly designed to prevent reimbursements being 
paid to incorrect accounts and is therefore designed to protect the customer, and given that 
Im satisfied that all AESEL customers in similar circumstances would be subject to the same 
process, I dont feel that Mr C being asked to follow that process is unfair. 
Mr C has explained that he did upload the documents to AESELs portal as requested, but 
that these werent received by AESEL. This is unfortunate, but given the process as Ive 
described it above, I wouldnt expect AESEL to reimburse the money to Mr S until its 
satisfied the money is being reimbursed to an appropriate account. 
I note that the letter sent by AESEL dated 13 November 2022, which asks Mr C to provide 
the documents, explains that as an alternative to the online portal, copies of the documents 
can be sent to AESEL by post. 
As such, I can only encourage Mr C to provide the documents required by AESEL to enable 
the reimbursement of his money. Mr C may have better luck uploading the documents via 
the portal at this time but sending clear copies of the documents by post is available to him 
as an alternative option if not. Mr C may also be able to request that AESEL reimburse the 
£23.81 via a similar method or that they send a further cheque for this amount, now that the 
postal strikes are no longer in force and that its been demonstrated that Mr C can receive 
letters sent by AESEL to his address.
None of this is to say that Mr C hasnt been frustrated and inconvenienced by whats 
happened here. But it is to say that unfortunately, in circumstances such as this, a degree of 
inconvenience may frustratingly be necessary  given the requirements on businesses such 
as AESEL to have processes in place to protect existing or prior customers money. Im 
satisfied AESEL are following such a process here by requiring the documents from Mr C. 
And while I accept this is frustrating for Mr C, I dont feel its unfair.  
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr C was wanting. But I hope hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman