DRN-2089984
The complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited poorly handled a claim he made under his 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr R has a home emergency policy underwritten by Aviva and, as its responsible for 
complaints about claims on the policy, Ill refer to it throughout.
Mr Rs boiler broke down so he contacted Aviva to arrange a repair under the policy. It sent 
one of its agents to fix the boiler. The engineer was unable to find the boiler data badge 
which would have contained important information required for the ordering of replacement 
parts, so he left.
An engineer returned the next day and identified the problem and the new parts required to 
complete the repair. He ordered the parts and got back in contact with Mr R to arrange a 
time to return to complete the repair.
During this call, Mr R says the engineer was rude to him. The engineer disagrees and said 
instead Mr R had made a racist remark. As a consequence of this, the agent refused to go 
back to the property to complete the repair.
Aviva then spent some time trying to arrange another of its agents to attend. Eventually, 
another engineer attended the property, ordered a part and a couple of days later the repair 
was completed. During this time, Mr R says he was without hot water.
Aviva accepted it had caused unreasonable delays in fixing the boiler and offered Mr R £315 
to apologise. It said he would need to pursue his concerns about the allegation of racism 
direct with the engineer. Mr R wasnt happy with this and brought the complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator said he didnt think Aviva had concluded Mr R made a racist remark, as it 
was likely it would have refused to deal with the repair if it believed he had. He said £315 
was a fair way for Aviva to say sorry for the delays in the repair.
Mr R asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The delays
Aviva accepts it provided Mr R with poor customer service, including failed appointments, 
and didnt repair his boiler quickly enough. It took 56 days from when he first reported the 
issue until it was repaired and working again. During this time, Mr R was without hot water 
and I can understand why he says this had a significant impact on him due to his personal 
circumstances. 
Ive thought carefully about this and, while this may be more than Id normally award given 
similar circumstances, I acknowledge the impact of not having hot water was greater for Mr 
R. Ive therefore concluded the £315 Aviva has offered is a fair way for it to settle this 
complaint. I know Mr R thinks he should receive more but Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
The accusation of racism
The second engineer made an accusation against Mr R and Aviva says he did this in a 
personal capacity. From the information Ive been given, I cant see Aviva drew any 
conclusions about this accusation, it merely explained they had been made and that the 
engineer had refused to return. It completed the repair  albeit slower than it should have  
and that was what was required of it under the policy terms.
Its difficult for me to determine what happened or what was said at the time. But in any case 
I cant see this accusation was shared any wider, and overall Aviva has acknowledged the 
impact of the related delay, apologised and compensated Mr R accordingly. So taking this all 
into account, Im satisfied it doesnt need to do anything further.
My final decision
I am aware Aviva Insurance Limited has made an offer of £315 to settle the complaint. I 
conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is 
that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr R £315 if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman