DRN-3170729
The complaint
The Trustees of Mrs M complain that ReAssure Life Limited refused Mrs Ms critical illness 
claim. 
There are two trustees but, for ease of reference, my decision will only refer to Mrs M.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 1999 Mrs M set up a whole of life policy that provides life and critical cover with a firm 
thats since been acquired by ReAssure. The policy was sold by an independent financial 
adviser (IFA). 
Mrs M was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes in July 2020. She contacted ReAssure to make a 
claim under her policy but she was told her condition wasnt covered. Mrs M complained 
about this but ReAssures position didnt change. In short, they said:
The policy guide specifies the critical illnesses that are covered and, unfortunately, 
type 1 diabetes is not a critical illness that is covered under the definitions. 
They noted Mrs Ms point that shes paid into this policy for many years and that she 
feels let down but, they explained the policy has provided valuable protection since 
its commencement. And, they wouldve paid a claim in the event of a diagnosis of 
one of the pre-defined critical illnesses outlined in the policy terms. 
Although they sympathised with Mrs Ms situation, theyve administered the policy in 
line with the terms and conditions. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mrs M referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
thought ReAssure had acted fairly as type 1 diabetes isnt a condition listed as being 
covered under the policy. And, while she acknowledged Mrs M thought the policy covered all 
serious illnesses, she explained it doesnt cover every eventuality. She also said that as the 
policy wasnt sold by ReAssure, any concerns about how it was sold would need to be 
directed to the IFA. Furthermore, although Mrs M had referred to another individual who 
suffered from diabetes having had a successful claim, the cover provided depends on the 
type of policy held and we look at each case separately. 
Mrs M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mrs M that I dont underestimate the severity of her condition or the impact it 
has on her. I understand its severely affected her day to day life and so Im very sympathetic 
to her situation. But, what I must consider here is whether ReAssure has acted fairly  and in 
line with the policy terms  by refusing the claim. I know this wont be the outcome Mrs M is 
hoping for but I think they have and for largely the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
The policy terms (technical guide) set out the contractual relationship between Mrs M and 
ReAssure, including what Mrs M is covered for. These say:
The plan can be set up as follows:

LIFETIME COVER PLUS,
(includes additional life cover)  where the Sum Assured is paid in the event of 
a critical illness or on earlier death
Full details of the illnesses covered are given under Critical Illnesses Covered on 
pages 5 to 8.
This means only the illnesses listed under the Critical Illnesses Covered section are 
covered. Ive checked this section and diabetes isnt a listed condition. Because of this, 
ReAssure has acted in line with the policy terms by refusing the claim. 
I appreciate Mrs M feels very strongly about her claim not being accepted given the 
seriousness of her condition. And shes referred to statistics provided by the World Health 
Organization to highlight the mortality rates relating to diabetes  including how this 
compares with other serious diseases such as cancer. 
I would like to again stress that I dont dispute the severity of Mrs Ms condition. But, as our 
investigator explained, insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. They only cover 
specific events as set out in the policy terms (contract). And, in Mrs Ms case, diabetes isnt 
a condition covered under the policy. So, while the condition has affected her greatly, I dont 
think ReAssure has acted unfairly  or outside the policy terms - by refusing the claim.
Im aware Mrs M has also explained that she paid into the policy for a number of years with 
the belief she was covered for diabetes. And that, from information found on the internet, 
another individual suffering from diabetes had their claim accepted. 
As Ive explained above, the policy terms set out what Mrs M is covered for. And policy 
terms differ. So, its likely the other person Mrs M refers to had a policy that included 
diabetes as a listed critical illness. In any event, I can only consider Mrs Ms policy as part of 
this complaint. And although Mrs M has suggested ReAssure has the discretion to accept 
her claim, theyre not contractually obligated to do so. This would be a commercial decision 
for ReAssure to make and so, I dont think I can fairly direct them to pay the claim.  
The policy was sold by an IFA. This means ReAssure werent responsible for ensuring the 
policy was suitable for Mrs Ms needs, only that they had to provide fair, clear and not 
misleading information to allow her to make an informed decision. Im satisfied the policy 
terms clearly set out what critical illnesses are covered. So, I likewise cant hold them 
responsible if Mrs M thought diabetes was covered.  If Mrs M has concerns about the sale of the policy then this should be directed to the firm 
responsible. I understand the IFA who sold the policy is no longer trading. However, the IFA 
was an appointed representative of another firm when it was sold. And so, it is this principle 
firm that is responsible for any complaints she wishes to raise. If Mrs M would like the details 
of this principle firm then we can provide them to her. 
On a final note, I understand Mrs M has said that a treatment option for her diabetes is to 
have her pancreas replaced. And so, shes questioned whether ReAssure are suggesting 
she have a major organ replaced for a claim to be accepted. I appreciate that such an 
operation would carry certain risks for Mrs M if it went ahead. But, I can only look at whether 
ReAssure has acted fairly when dealing with this claim  which I think they have. And, at this 
point, I havent seen anything to show Mrs A is due to undergo the operation or that shes on 
the waiting list for it to happen. So, I think its reasonable for ReAssure not to consider such 
a claim until the event arises. 
Mrs Ms condition may lead to her suffering a critical illness that is covered under the policy  
such as major organ transplant. I cant say whether any future claim in this respect would 
be accepted. But, as Mrs M hasnt yet suffered a critical illness as defined under the policy, I 
think ReAssures decision not to pay a claim at this time is fair. 
I realise Mrs M will be disappointed but, for the above reasons, I think ReAssure has fairly 
refused her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask The Trustees of 
Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman