DRN-2664104
The complaint
Mr A complains that the actions of Barclays Bank UK PLC in relation to an overdraft 
protection insurance policy caused him to lose out financially.  
What happened
Mr A was required to pay off his overdraft of £1,363.59 in September 1991. To do this, he 
sold stocks and shares. But Mr A had an overdraft protection insurance policy in place which 
wouldve repaid his overdraft in the event that he was made redundant (subject to terms and 
conditions). He wasnt aware he had this policy at the time. It appears it was sold to him at 
some point in 1991. 
Mr A complained to Barclays about the policy and, in November 2018, Barclays accepted it 
had been mis-sold and issued a refund, as well as 8% interest. This totalled over £8,000 and 
Mr A accepted it. 
But Mr A said that if hed known he had the insurance policy, he couldve used this to pay off 
his overdraft when he was made redundant rather than selling stocks and shares. 
On discovering the policy, Mr A was told that it wouldve repaid the overdraft in the event of 
his death. But it later became apparent that it would also have paid out in the event of 
redundancy. Mr A said this is misrepresentation as this suggests the cover was more limited 
than it was. He says hes lost out on more than £10,000 as a result of selling his stocks and 
shares when he didnt need to. And that he was put under pressure to sell these and thinks, 
given he did have cover but couldnt use it, Barclays should pay him the overdraft amount of 
£1,363.59 as well as 8% interest. 
Barclays said that, because of how long its been since the issues at the subject of this 
complaint  the surrendering of stocks and shares, the repayment of the overdraft, and the 
accompanying advice  it doesnt have any file notes, policy documents, letters or calls. So it 
cant comment on what Mr A was told. 
Mr A is also unhappy with the delay in handling his complaint and the time he spent pursuing 
it. Barclays agreed thered been a significant delay so paid an initial £50 and a further £25 
for the inconvenience caused, problems experienced and time taken to resolve the 
complaint. But Mr A remains unhappy. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr A, I dont uphold his complaint 
 Ill explain why. I should point out that, while Ive read and thought about everything 
provided by both parties, Ive not responded to every point raised. Instead, Ive set out my 
overall decision and the reasons for it. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mr A feels hes lost out financially through being pressured 
into selling stocks and shares that he didnt need to sell because he had a policy that was 
designed to pay off his overdraft when he was made redundant. 
Mr A says its indisputable that at the very least hes lost £1,363.59  the amount he couldve 
claimed for on his policy. However, Mr A accepted a refund of his premiums as well as 8% 
interest on the basis the policy was said to have been mis-sold to him. This approach was to 
put Mr A back into the position he wouldve been in if he hadnt been sold the policy. But as 
the policy has been unwound, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Barclays to consider a 
retrospective claim on a policy that effectively doesnt exist - Barclays no longer has the 
benefit of the premiums as these were returned. Simply put, Mr A can't be in a position 
where he both gets his overdraft paid for by the insurance and also receives back all the 
money he paid for the insurance. I also think its of note that the returned premiums far 
outweigh the potential value of the claim. 
So Ive thought next about the repayment of the overdraft back in 1991. As Mr A didnt know 
he had the policy at the time, he had to find an alternative way to pay it off. But theres been 
nothing to suggest that he didnt owe the money  so he would always have been required to 
pay it somehow; whether that be through a loan, savings, or his stocks and shares. And we 
have to take into account that hes been indemnified for the mis-sold policy. Ive thought 
carefully about the point Mr A has made about Barclays putting him under pressure to sell 
his stocks and shares. But any discussions or advice took place a very long time ago 
(nearing 30 years). So its not surprising that Barclays doesnt have any record of what was 
said. And, with the limited information I have, Im not persuaded that Mr A was put under 
undue pressure to sell his shares. 
In my opinion, too much time has passed for me to fairly assess what other options wouldve 
been available to and appropriate for Mr A at the time. But even if I were to assume that 
Barclays did act in error and put undue pressure on Mr A to sell his stocks and shares, to be 
able to redress this appropriately, Id need to know more information about these, such as 
their value at the time he sold them and beyond. Mr A has told us that he cant be precise, 
but believes he knows which companies the shares were for  and says that hes lost out on 
an amount in excess of £10,000. But Mr A hasnt been able to prove what shares he sold so, 
even if I concluded that Barclays made an error, I dont have sufficient information about 
Mr As losses. However, I return to my above point which is that I dont have enough 
information to safely say that Barclays provided poor advice or any undue pressure.
Mr A also detailed the issues he had in making his complaint to Barclays. But I cant 
consider this as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. 
So based on everything Ive seen, while I appreciate Mr As frustrations about selling stocks 
and shares when he had a suitable policy to pay his overdraft, I wont be asking Barclays to 
do anything further here. It has already refunded all the premiums, along with compensatory 
interest. The available information is simply too limited for me to conclude that there was 
further wrongdoing and there also isnt enough evidence of the financial impact on Mr A.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman