DRN-3853663
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs S complain about the way American International Group UK Limited 
(AIG) handled their gadget insurance claim.
Because Mrs S is leading on this complaint, Ive referred to her throughout. Any reference 
to AIG includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive 
summarised whats happened.
Mrs S has a gadget insurance policy which is underwritten by AIG.
In November 2021, she contacted AIG to log a claim for a lost/stolen mobile 
phone and laptop. A few days later, Mrs S purchased a replacement mobile 
phone. She then purchased a replacement laptop in December 2021.
Unhappy with how the claim was progressing, Mrs S brought a complaint to this 
Service. Mrs S says that because AIG didnt progress her claim, she had to 
replace the items herself.
Shes also unhappy about the length of time the claim has been going on and 
feels she should be compensated for the stress and inconvenience caused.
Whilst the complaint has been with us, AIG offered to replace the items and pay 
£280 compensation for the difficulties Mrs S experienced. Our Investigator said this 
was fair, but Mrs S didnt agree and so, the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
Whilst I agreed AIG should cover the claim, I wasnt persuaded replacing the 
items provided a fair resolution in the circumstances because Mrs S would find 
herself with an extra phone and laptop.
So I said AIG should give Mrs S the choice of either having the laptop replaced or 
being reimbursed the cost of the replacement laptop plus 8% simple interest from 
the time it was purchased to when AIG makes payment.
With regards to the mobile phone, I said AIG should give Mrs S the choice of either 
having the phone replaced or being given a cash settlement to the value it would 
have cost AIG to replace the phone. I explained that it wasnt reasonable to ask 
AIG to refund Mrs S the premiums as AIG have agreed to cover the claim and 
doing so, would lead to her benefitting twice from the policy. I also said I thought 
the compensation offered was fair.
AIG agreed with my recommendation. Mrs S didnt and said:
oThe compensation wasnt sufficient given the inconvenience caused. 
She thought compensation in the region of £500 was reasonable.
oShe wanted the cost of the lost/stolen phone and laptop reimbursed as 
well as the temporary phone and laptop, and protective laptop sleeve.
I issued a provisional decision in which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the policy document which says AIG can choose to replace 
lost or stolen gadgets and devices.
The policy defines devices as a mobile phone or gadget. And gadget is 
defined as a portable connected smart device that contains its own power 
source [] that you take with you while on the go. This includes but is not limited 
to laptops, tablets, eReaders, wireless headphones/ear buds, and portable 
gaming systems.
So, Im satisfied Mrs S lost/stolen mobile phone and laptop fall within the definition 
of the policy. However, the protective laptop sleeve doesnt, as it doesnt meet the 
definition of either a gadget or device.
Furthermore, the policy explicitly excludes device accessories. Under What is not 
covered it says Device Accessories  Any loss, theft, damage or breakdown of 
any Device accessories will not be covered. This policy only covers the cost of 
repair or replacement of the device itself. So, Im satisfied AIG dont need to 
replace the lost/stolen laptop sleeve.
AIG has offered to replace the mobile phone and laptop in line with the policy 
terms, but Im not persuaded this provides a fair resolution as Mrs S has already 
bought replacement items at her own expense.
Mrs S wants to be reimbursed for the lost/stolen items and the replacement 
items, but Im not persuaded thats fair either, and Ill explain why.
Mrs S considers it unreasonable that AIG didnt replace the lost/stolen phone 
within 48 hours  she says she therefore, had no choice but to purchase a 
replacement. I havent seen anything to confirm AIG said the phone would be 
replaced in this timeframe  instead it appears they said thats how long it would 
take to set up the claim.
Because Mrs S purchased a new mobile phone within a couple of days of logging 
the claim, Im not satisfied she gave AIG a realistic amount of time to provide a 
replacement. I accept that ultimately, AIG took far longer than is reasonable to 
offer a replacement, but Mrs S couldnt have known this at the time of purchasing 
the replacement mobile phone. And so, whether or not AIG had handled that part 
of the claim in a timely manner, I think its more likely she wouldve still purchased 
a replacement mobile phone.
Mrs S frustration is at having to use the temporary phone for longer than she 
considers reasonable  which I understand. But this inconvenience is reflected in 
the compensation AIG has offered. And so, I wont be asking AIG to reimburse her 
for the replacement phone.Instead, I consider that Mrs S should be able to choose between a) AIG replacing 
the lost/stolen mobile phone or b) AIG providing a cash settlement to the value it 
would have cost them to replace the phone.
With regards to the laptop, Im satisfied Mrs S gave AIG a reasonable timeframe 
in which to provide a replacement, and so it should give her the choice of a) 
having the laptop replaced with one of the same specification or b) a cash 
settlement to the value of the original laptop or for the amount she paid for the 
temporary laptop  whichever is greater.
Theres no doubt Mrs S has been inconvenienced by having to chase AIG for 
updates and has experienced stress from the length of time the claim has gone 
on for, but Im satisfied the compensation offered is in line with what this Service 
would consider reasonable in the circumstances.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and will direct AIG to do 
as follows:
At Mrs S discretion, AIG must either replace the mobile phone or provide a 
cash settlement in line with its policy terms.
At Mrs S discretion, AIG must replace the laptop, or it must provide either a cash 
settlement for the value of the original laptop or for the cost of the replacement 
laptop  whichever is greater.
If Mrs S chooses to have a cash settlement for the cost of the replacement 
laptop, 8% simple interest should be added to this from the date she bought the 
laptop to when AIG makes payment.
AIG responded to say it accepted my provisional findings. 
Mrs S replied to say she disagreed with how Id proposed AIG should put things right in 
respect of the temporary mobile phone. She said if the claim had been resolved in a 
reasonable time frame, she wouldnt have asked for the cost of the temporary phone to be 
reimbursed. She added that as the phone was used for banking and other essential tasks, 
she had no choice but to purchase a temporary one and waited ten months before paying for 
a permanent phone. Mrs S also reiterated the difficulties she experienced in dealing with 
AIG. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been provided with information which persuades me I need to 
depart from the reasoning set out in my provisional decision, but for completeness I will 
address the points Mrs S has raised. 
I understand Mrs S point that she waited ten months before purchasing what she describes 
as a permanent phone  but differentiating between a temporary and permanent mobile 
phone is not whats key here. Ultimately, she purchased a replacement phone shortly after 
logging the claim with AIG without knowing how long the claim would take. And I explained in my provisional decision why I dont think its reasonable  based on this course of action - 
to ask AIG to reimburse the cost of the replacement mobile phone. 
It seems Mrs S argument is that if the claim had been handled promptly, she wouldnt be as 
aggrieved about shouldering the cost of the replacement phone herself, but that because of 
the delays she thinks AIG should reimburse her for it. As previously explained, the 
compensation is to reflect the difficulties shes experienced overall in dealing with this claim, 
which includes these frustrations. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct American International Group UK 
Limited as follows
At Mrs S discretion, AIG must either replace the mobile phone or provide a 
cash settlement in line with its policy terms.
At Mrs S discretion, AIG must replace the laptop, or it must provide either a cash 
settlement for the value of the original laptop or for the cost of the replacement 
laptop  whichever is greater.
If Mrs S chooses to have a cash settlement for the cost of the replacement 
laptop, 8% simple interest should be added to this from the date she bought the 
laptop to when AIG makes payment.
If it hasnt already done so, AIG should pay Mrs S £280 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman