DRN-2093361
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that QIC Europe Limited declined a claim under his home insurance policy 
for accidental damage to a septic tank.
What happened
Mr L made a claim to QIC concerning his septic tank. He said it needed emptying every few 
weeks as opposed to about once a year.
QIC sent a drainage expert to inspect the tank. Based on the experts findings QIC declined 
the claim. It said the damage had been caused by roots growing into the septic tank and 
gradual damage wasnt covered by Mr Ls policy.
Mr L provided QIC with information from his own contractor. He said the dip pipe was 
missing from the outlet of the septic tank and that was why the system was failing. He 
suggested that Mr L had probably cracked the pipe when using a spade to clear surface 
debris. He said that would have resulted in surface solids entering the soakaway thus 
blocking the drainage.
QIC didnt change its decision. It said a missing dip pipe wasnt evidence of accidental 
damage and there was no evidence to support the theory that the dip pipe had been 
damaged by a spade.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think 
there was any evidence that QIC had acted unfairly.
As Mr L didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has to prove his claim in the first instance by showing that damage to his septic tank 
was caused by something covered by the policy. He has accidental damage cover for 
buildings. Accidental damage is defined in the policy as sudden, unexpected and physical 
damage which: i) happens at a specific time, and ii) was not deliberate, and iii) was caused 
by something external and identifiable. 
Its not in dispute that there were a lot of tree roots in Mr Ls system. His contractor refers to 
massive root ingress to top section of the first chamber. QICs expert thought these were 
the cause of the problem They reported:
The system is severely damaged by tree root ingress. The failure  of the vessel  has 
resulted  in poor quality  effluent  discharging  into the drainage.  This has damaged the 
drain field and caused localised flooding and backing up of the system.
I think its likely that the many tree roots caused damage to the septic tank. Thats not 
damage that would have happened suddenly and so doesnt meet the policy definition of 
accidental damage. In the light of this I dont think QIC treated Mr L unfairly in declining his 
claim.
Mr Ls contractor disagreed that the tree roots were the cause of the damage. He thought 
the damage had been caused by a missing dip pipe in the second chamber of the septic 
tank allowing solid waste to leave the tank and enter the soakaway. QICs expert agreed that 
the pipe was missing but said there were no signs of it having been accidentally damaged. It 
said that the pipe might be missing due to the age of the tank.
This is a balanced case as the two experts disagree. Even if I accepted the view of Mr Ls 
contractor, for his claim to be covered hed need to show that the dip pipe was likely to have 
become damaged at a specific time by something identifiable. If he cant do this, his claim 
will fail in any event. I dont think hes done that. After his expert had suggested how the 
damage might have happened, Mr L told QIC:
Thinking back, the only thing I can think of that could have caused the pipe to crack with 
impact was when I was using a spade to clear the top layer of sewage of some leaves and 
sticks that fell in after I lifted the lid to check the water level.
I accept that its possible the pipe might have become cracked and knocked off as a result of 
being hit by a spade. But Id have expected Mr L to have noticed at the time the impact of his 
spade hitting something solid like a pipe. I need to be satisfied his suggested cause of 
damage is more likely than not. It seems to me equally likely that the pipe might have come 
off due to wear and tear as suggested by QICs expert. Having thought about all the 
information carefully, Im not satisfied that Mr L has shown on the balance of probabilities 
that the dip pipe suffered accidental damage.
Ive checked whether any other sections of Mr Ls policy might cover this damage and 
unfortunately for him they dont.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but I dont think QIC treated him unfairly in declining his claim.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman