DRN-3607273
The complaint
G complains Cynergy Bank Limited (CBL) restricted and closed its accounts without 
explanation. And its request for certain information, as part of its review, was unlawful and 
unreasonable.
G says the matter has caused it distress and inconvenience.  
What happened
In late 2020, CBL reviewed Gs accounts and blocked them whilst it did this. One of its 
agents called G and asked for information which showed Gs entitlement to the cash it was 
depositing. 
G refused to do this saying it would be breaking GDPR rules by disclosing the personal 
information of its clients. CBL decided to close Gs account by giving it seven days notice, 
during which G did not have access to its accounts.
Unhappy, G complained. CBL said it had done nothing wrong in blocking and closing Gs 
accounts as it was following legal and regulatory obligations. But it did say its customer 
service didnt meet its standards. CBL apologised for any inconvenience caused. 
Dissatisfied with what CBL said, G referred its complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint. In summary, the key findings they made were: 
- CBL has the right to review and block accounts at anytime to meet its legal and 
regulatory obligations 
- CBL did not cause delays when carrying out its review 
- CBL are under no obligation to explain why it closed the account
- CBL was entitled to close the account, but it didnt act reasonably by doing so with 
immediate effect.  Based on the evidence, CBL should have given 60 days notice
- CBL say G could have given the information it required by redacting the personal 
sensitive information it had concerns with sharing. But as CBL does not have any call 
recordings, its not possible to see this option was offered by it to G. 
But CBL could have followed up its request for information in writing - especially as 
its employee called G using a withheld mobile which would have caused concern. 
This was poor service
- CBL accept it didnt return calls in a timely manner. So CBL should pay some 
compensation for this 
- As G is a limited company, and a separate legal entity to the personal capacity of its 
directors, were unable to award it any compensation for distress they suffered
- CBL were able to cover its wages and other costs by relying on savings held with 
another bank  but having to divert this would have caused CBL inconvenience. 
Because of this, and the poor service, CBL should pay G £250
CBL accepted what our Investigator said. G did not agree. In short it said: 
- £250 is inadequate compensation as it had to use its savings to make good with 
clients 
- CBL reasons to do this are without foundation or cause 
- The distress caused to the directors was extreme
As G does not agree, its complaint has now been passed to me  an Ombudsman - to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
So Im satisfied CBL did nothing wrong by reviewing and then restricting Gs accounts. Im 
also satisfied CBL didnt cause undue delays in doing so. 
G argue the information CBL was asking it to provide would have meant it had to disclose 
personal information from its clients meaning it would breach GDPR rules. CBL say G could 
have redacted the personal information which would have avoided any data protection 
issues. I think that is a reasonable solution in these individual circumstances. 
But as CBL do not have the calls it held with Gs directors; I cant determine if this option was 
made over phone. G also argue that it was called by CBL from a withheld number, and the 
request for information wasnt followed up in writing. I think this is a reasonable point, and 
question why CBL didnt make a formal written request. 
But ultimately CBL has ongoing obligations to meet and to do that it can ask its customers to 
provide proof of entitlement to funds. So I can see why not receiving the information it 
requested would have heightened any concerns. 
G wants to know why CBL decided to review its accounts. Neither CBL nor I are under any 
obligation to disclose the reasons for this. But I am persuaded, from the information Ive 
been given, that CBL had reason enough to place the account under review  and restrict 
them whilst it did this. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.Having looked closely at CBLs terms of account, I dont think it acted fairly or reasonably by 
closing Gs accounts immediately. I dont think CBLs concerns were enough to do what it 
did. So I think it should have given two months notice as per its terms. 
Fortunately G were able to meet its financial commitments through accessing its savings 
held in another bank. But I agree having to do this would have caused it inconvenience. Gs 
directors feel strongly they should be compensated for the distress and anxiety CBLs 
actions caused them personally. 
But the eligible complainant here is G  a limited company. That means G is a separate legal 
entity to its directors. A limited company, given it isnt an individual, cant suffer distress or 
anxiety. I note CBL was able to continue trading and meet its financial commitments through 
accessing its savings. So I dont need to consider financial loss. 
Having given this some thought, Im satisfied £250 is fair compensation for CBLs poor 
customer service  and for the inconvenience it caused. In reaching this amount, Ive taken 
into account the time frame in which this happened  and how quickly CBL was able to move 
its banking arrangements elsewhere. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. I now direct Cynergy Bank Limited to 
put things right as directed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman