DRN-3711674
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, didnt pay £100
cashback to him, in line with an offer hed received from them.
What happened
Mr E received an email from Barclays advising of a cashback offer that would be running for
a limited time. Mr E made what he felt was a qualifying purchase to take advantage of that
offer and expected to receive £100 cashback from Barclays as a result.
But Mr E didnt receive the cashback from Barclays as he anticipated. And when he asked
Barclays why he hadnt received the cashback, he was told that although hed instructed the
purchase within the qualifying time period, the merchant hadnt completed the purchase until
over six weeks later, by which time the cashback offer had ended, and that because of this
the purchase wasnt deemed to have qualified for the cashback offer.
Mr E wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. Barclays looked at Mr Es complaint,
but they confirmed that the purchase wasnt considered as being qualifying by them because
the merchant hadnt completed the purchase within the required timeframe.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Barclays had
acted unfairly towards Mr E in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt
uphold the complaint.
Mr E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 August 2022 as follows:
Barclays acknowledge that Mr E made the purchase within the qualifying time period, 
but because the merchant didnt complete the transaction by requesting the money 
from Mr Es Barclays account until after the qualifying period had ended, Barclays 
deem the transaction to be out of timeframe and therefore to not qualify for the 
cashback offer.
There are two points that lead me to feel that Barclays position isnt fair or 
reasonable here. The first is that there is a considerable time between Mr E 
instructing the transaction and the merchant requesting the funds from Barclays, over 
which Mr E held no control. And the second is that the cashback offer that Barclays 
emailed to Mr E was specific to the one particular merchant only and didnt apply to 
any purchases made with any other merchant.
It therefore doesnt feel fair to me that Barclays would acknowledge that Mr E 
instructed the transaction within period, but then deem the transaction to be 
unqualifying because the merchant themselves didnt complete the transaction until 
the qualifying period had ended. And this is especially the case given that the 
cashback offer was merchant specific, such that I feel that the possibility that this 
scenario may arise should have been considered by Barclays when formulating the 
cashback offer.
I also note that terms of the cashback offer, as emailed to Mr E, which include the 
following:
You can earn cashback on multiple purchases but each transaction must:
be made by you or your additional cardholder(s) on [the  
merchants website] or in [the merchants store] in the UK.
take place between 00:01 on 10 December 2021 and 23:59 on 9 
January 2022.
come to at least £250.
be made using your Barclaycard directly (for example, it wont  
work if you pay using your Barclaycard through a digital wallet).
Upon consideration, it seems to me that Mr Es purchase met these terms. The 
transaction was made by Mr E on the merchants website within the qualifying period 
and was for over £250. And it was also made directly on Mr Es Barclaycard account.
Ultimately, I dont feel that its fair that Barclays should consider Mr Es transaction to 
be non-qualifying here, given that he instructed it within period and given that I feel 
Barclays should have taken into account that the specific merchant which the 
cashback offer applied may in some circumstances have not completed the 
transaction until several weeks after a customer instructed it  an eventuality that 
wasnt in that customers control. And it follows from this that Ill be provisionally 
upholding this complaint in Mr Es favour and instructing Barclays to pay the £100 to 
Mr E that Im satisfied he should have received.
It's also notable that when Mr E contacted Barclays about the cashback offer he was 
initially given inconsistent information by Barclays agents, including being incorrectly 
advised that he needed to complete a form and also being incorrectly told that for the 
cashback offer to be valid he had to have pre-registered, neither of which was the 
case. As such, I do feel that Mr E has incurred an unnecessary degree of 
inconvenience and frustration when trying to resolve this matter, and because of this 
my provisional decision also includes that Barclays must pay a further £75 to Mr E as 
compensation for the trouble and upset that hes incurred. This means that Barclays 
must make a combined payment of £175 to Mr E.
Both Mr E and Barclays responded to my provisional decision and confirmed they were 
happy to accept it. As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this 
complaint on the basis explained above, and I can confirm that my final decision is that I do 
uphold this complaint in Mr Es favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £175 to Mr EMy final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman