DRN-3697485
The complaint
Ms D feels that American Express Services Europe Limited has treated her unfairly in 
relation to the purchase of a training course.
What happened
In June 2020 Ms D purchased from a Merchant a training course to go on with a view to 
earning qualifications as a result of the course. She used her credit card with American 
Express Services Europe Limited (Amex for short) to pay for the course which was over 
£3300. Ms D says she wasnt provided with the full course or allowed to take the exams to 
earn the qualifications. She says she tried to resolve the issue with the Merchant but was 
unsuccessful. So Ms D complained to Amex.
Amex looked into the matter and felt that the appropriate relationship under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 to make it potentially liable wasnt in place. It also felt that a chargeback 
didnt have a reasonable prospect of success. So it said it wouldnt refund her the amount 
she paid for the course. Ms D disagreed and brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator agreed with the position of Amex and felt it didnt need to do anymore. So 
Ms D asked for and Ombudsmans decision. So, this complaint came to me to decide. 
Earlier this month I issued a provisional decision describing my provisional reasons for not 
upholding this complaint. Both parties responded to that. So I now issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision and having considered those responses 
Im not persuaded to change my position as described in my provisional decision. I shall 
comment on the partys responses by interweaving them into my rationale as set out in my 
provisional decision as set out below.
Ms D can bring a claim under Section 75 claim of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as long as 
certain criteria are met. The general effect of section 75 is that if Ms D has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also 
bring that claim against the creditor (Amex here) provided certain conditions are met.
As I see it, there are three main issues I need to address are Chargeback, the 
Debtor/Creditor/ Supplier relationship (often shortened to DCS) which is the relationship in 
question and whether there was a breach of contract or a material misrepresentation by the 
Merchant.
Chargeback
The Investigator set out in their assessment a timeline of events with regard to the 
chargeback issue. Essentially there was an elongated period of to and fro between Ms D 
and Amex and during this time it considered the matter under a couple of different 
chargeback reasons. Ultimately it didnt pursue the chargeback further because it felt Ms Ds 
complaint sat outside the scope of the Chargeback reasons available.
Ms Ds credit card is part of this card network which has rules which includes giving Amex an 
avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants, namely through the Chargeback 
process. This scheme is not a right for consumers, but this service does consider it to be 
good practice to raise chargebacks where there is a reasonable prospect of success. 
Bearing in mind that Ms D doesnt dispute she made the transaction or that it was 
inappropriately applied to her account I dont think Amex could have raised a chargeback at 
the time of the transaction. 
Amex took the view that Ms D did receive some of the training course she paid for and that 
disputes about the quality of the course sat outside the possible chargeback reasons as set 
out in the card network rules. So it didnt think there was a reasonable prospect of success, 
so it didnt pursue the matter. The evidence shows that Ms D did start and partake in the 
course actively. And the reasons why she didnt complete the course have been evidenced 
by the Merchant in its emails to her which this service has copies of. Having considered all of 
what we know and Amexs stance and the very likely stance of the Merchant to defend any 
chargeback throughout I dont think Ms D has lost out through Amexs decision not to take 
the matter further.
DCS
I can see Amex position on DCS in its original investigation into this complaint. It is saying 
that as the payment for this training course went to the Merchant via another company (Ill 
call this Firm P) that DCS is not in place.
This service has been in contact with Firm P and gathered evidence regarding its role in the 
matter. It has described its role as a Gateway/Payment Processor in this particular 
transaction.
In line with our approach to Payment Processors in relation to DCS I dont necessarily agree 
with Amex s position on DCS. Particularly when what happened here is considered properly 
in the light of the Judges comments in both of the Court of Appeal case of Office of Fair 
Trading v Lloyds & others [2006] (the OFT case) and the High Court case of Governor and 
Company of the Bank of Scotland v Alfred Truman (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583, (the Truman 
case). 
In response to my provisional decision Amex has said it doesnt agree with my thoughts on 
DCS and said this is because it is the aggregator rather than the supplier, who holds a 
merchant account as a customer of (Amex). I still disagree however I see little point in 
explaining my thinking further with regard to DCS at this juncture as this case doesnt turn on 
this issue.
Breach of Contract or Misrepresentation
For Ms D to be successful in this complaint I have to be persuaded Amex has considered 
her claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation unfairly, and that the Merchant did 
breach or misrepresent to her the contract.
Ive seen emails between the Merchant and Ms D. The Merchant says it terminated her 
participation on the course due to her behaviour. The Merchant makes clear that if she 
attends the premises again the staff providing the training have been instructed to call the 
Police to have you removed. It also points to what it says is a wealth of evidence from a number of witnesses who describe Ms Ds disruptive, abusive and aggressive behaviour. It 
also says this behaviour by Ms D has broken the terms and conditions agreed to in the 
provision of the training course.
Amex has pointed to this evidence and notes that Ms Ds claim that there has been a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation by the Merchant has not been made out. And thus Amex 
argues it has nothing further to do.
Having considered what Ms D has said happened I note it is, to my mind, lacking in detail 
and appears to be an incomplete description of her time on the course. The Merchant 
however in its emails has pointed to why and how Ms D has been barred from the course 
and that the Merchant says it can do this under the terms and conditions agreed with Ms D. 
Ms D in her response to my provisional decision has said in essence that the key issue is 
that she didnt receive the full course and qualifications so that is the end of the matter and 
she should be compensated for this. But I dont agree. If the cause of the course not being 
completed is her behaviour and she breached the contract by her behaviour then it follows 
that she wouldnt get to complete the course. And thus Amex wouldnt hold any liability.
I also note that Ms D doesnt contend my findings about the Merchants emails to her. And 
that she doesnt think she did anything very bad. Ultimately a contract is between two 
parties and both parties make commitments in the contract to the other party. It is clear Ms D 
has been unsuccessful in her dispute with the Merchant. And having seen the evidence Im 
not persuaded Amex has treated Ms D unfairly by not refunding her because Im not 
persuaded that there has been a breach or misrepresentation here.
All in all I dont think Amex has acted unfairly by considering that Ms D hasnt demonstrated 
persuasively that she has suffered a breach of contract or misrepresentation about the 
contract here. And I think it fair and reasonable that Amex dont have to pay her for not 
getting the full course due to her behaviour and no breach by the Merchant.
I note Amex says it sent Ms D a cheque for £100 in relation to the customer service it 
provided her. Ive considered what happened in terms of Amexs customer service and this 
seems fair and reasonable in the round. If Ms D hasnt cashed this she should talk to Amex 
about this.
Having considered all that has happened here including Ms Ds comments today, I have 
decided that it is fair that this complaint doesnt succeed. And accordingly I dont think Amex 
has to do anything in relation to this complaint about this dispute.
My final decision
For the above reasons my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about American 
Express Services Europe Limited. It has nothing further to do here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman