DRN-2236799
The complaint
Mr T complaint is about debt collection activities conducted by Arvato Financial Solutions 
Limited. He says it failed to notify him that he could stop payments as the account was being 
returned to the debt owner. He wants any overpayments refunded.
What happened
Mr T tells us that hes been repaying a debt at £10 per month which Arvato were 
administering on behalf of a company Ill refer to as P. Mr T says he contacted Arvato in 
early 2020, in order to enquire about the account balance. But was only then told that the 
account had been closed and returned to P. And that he neednt have made payments until 
contacted again by P. He says that hed previously notified Arvato that he was going to be 
moving frequently between addresses as he didnt have any permanent accommodation. 
And that he wanted any messages sent only by email. Mr T states that as a result of this he 
made nine months payments which he couldnt afford to pay. He says he asked Arvato for a 
refund but that it refused this request.
Arvato told us that Mr Ts file had been closed and returned on the instructions of P. It said a 
system generated letter was automatically issued to the customer when the status is 
updated as closed. And this had been sent in April 2019. This letter would not be sent via 
email as its systems would not do this automatically. It said the payments it had received 
after the file was closed were remitted back to P as it (Arvato) would not hold onto the 
payments made on a closed file.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Mr T had 
provided Arvato with information that explained the need for email communication and that 
letter contact wasnt secure. He said that Arvato shouldve sent an email letter about the 
account closure. He didnt think the payments should be refunded as it wasnt in dispute that 
these were owed to P. 
Arvato didnt agree with the investigators view. And said it had correctly followed its own 
processes. As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsmans been asked 
to make the final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr T has been experiencing financial problems in recent times. And I 
accept that hes experienced difficult circumstances in having to frequently change 
addresses. So I can understand his disappointment at not being made aware that his 
account with Arvato had been closed and returned to P. 
Theres no factual dispute here and Arvato accepts that it sent the letter notifying of the 
account closure and changed arrangements to Mr T by ordinary mail. And not by email as 
hed previously requested. Its explanation being that it was simply following its own internal 
processes.
Our investigator correctly stated that its not the role of this service to instruct Arvato (or any 
business) to change its processes. But this service is able to look at the impact that the 
processes may have on an individuals circumstances. And to uphold a complaint if we feel 
the business hasnt treated the customer fairly.
Mr T made the reasons for his request known to Arvato. And given he was trying to maintain 
contact and reduce the possibility of secure information going astray its not unreasonable to 
think Arvato wouldve taken some steps to accommodate his request. It may not have been 
convenient or practical to prevent automated letters being sent. But I cant say that this 
should prevent an additional copy being sent by email. Arvato was able to send other emails 
to Mr T so I cant see any impediment to this information also being sent by email.
Although Mr T states that this omission led to him making unnecessary payments, I dont 
think that this is the case. Its not disputed that Mr T owes money to P. And its probable that 
P wouldve simply have taken up where Arvato left off in terms of administering the 
payments. The letter itself doesnt state that payments neednt be made, only that any 
arrangements between Mr T and Arvato are being cancelled. And that Mr T would need to 
reset these with P.
Any gap between payments falling due was simply a payment deferred not cancelled. I cant 
reasonably say that Mr T experienced any financial loss due to the failure by Arvato to send 
the email notification.
I find Mr Ts request for email contact was not only reasonable, but it was also desirable that 
it shouldve been met. It was designed to ensure the business had a means of contacting 
him in a way that reduced the chance of his personal details being compromised. In not 
agreeing to or implementing this request I dont think Arvato has acted fairly and Im 
upholding the complaint.
As Arvatos error didnt result in any direct financial loss to him, I think its fair and 
reasonable to describe the impact upon Mr T as being modest. Even though I accept his 
financial situation is more difficult than most. 
I recently sent a note to both parties indicating my initial thoughts and indicating that I 
considered £50 compensation was a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint. Whilst 
Arvato maintains it didnt do anything wrong, Mr T has indicated he agrees with my initial 
thoughts.
Putting things right
Arvato should pay £50 to Mr T for the distress and inconvenience caused by its failure to 
contact him regarding his account by email. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement of the complaint I require Arvato Financial Solutions Limited to 
take the action Ive stipulated in the immediately preceding section of the decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman