DRN-1955948
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Caxton FX LTD wont refund a disputed transaction made from his 
account.
What happened
Mr I says that a fraudulent transaction in the sum of £126.57 was made from his Caxton 
account on 22 September 2019 at 08:51. 
Mr I was on holiday in Turkey with his wife and two friends. Whilst they went into a 
supermarket, Mr I went to an ATM to withdraw cash. Mr I told the investigator that this was a 
standalone ATM on a busy street. He doesnt remember anything suspicious about the ATM 
and there was no one in front or behind him but there were a lot of people passing by. 
Mr I inserted his card into the ATM following which he was given two options in Turkish, he 
assumed one was for cash and the other for cash with receipt. So, he pressed one of the 
options and then proceeded to enter his PIN when prompted to do so. He was then 
presented with something in Turkish which he didnt understand so he asked a passer-by to 
translate it for him. He was told it was asking him to enter his card. He tried to retrieve his 
card back by pressing several different buttons but it was not returned. Mr I waited around 
for about 5 minutes and he has said that during this time nobody approached the ATM and 
his card wasnt returned. 
Mr I said he didnt have a phone on him so he retuned straight back to the hotel and called 
Caxton to inform them of what had happened. This journey wouldve taken approximately 20 
minutes. During this call, Caxton told Mr I that his card had been used for a transaction of 
£126.57.  
Caxton declined Mr Is fraud claim. They said the transaction was carried out using Mr Is 
genuine card and PIN and therefore the transactions were either carried out by Mr I or he 
failed with gross negligence in protecting his card and PIN. Mr I was unhappy with this so 
referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Caxton had 
not demonstrated that Mr I failed with gross negligence to protect his card and PIN. He said 
that use of the genuine card and PIN alone wasnt sufficient to say Mr I was negligent in 
protecting his details. 
Caxton responded to say that they do not agree with the outcome and would like the answer 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
previously set out and for much of the same reasons. 
Generally, Caxton can hold Mr I liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself. 
Im satisfied from Caxtons technical evidence that Mr Is card and PIN were used to make 
the disputed transaction. But Caxtons terms and conditions say that is not, on its own, 
enough to enable to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that Mr I consented to the transaction being made.
Having reviewed Mr Is transaction history, I dont think Mr I authorised the disputed 
transaction. I say this because: 
Mr I has given his version of events which I am persuaded by and I will explain why. In 
order for a fraudster to carry out the disputed transaction, he would need the original 
card and the PIN. Mr I has given a plausible explanation for how his card and PIN were 
used by a fraudster. I think on balance its likely Mr Is card was obtained via the ATM he 
attempted to use and his PIN observed via a device installed on or near the machine.
 
The evidence indicates Mr I reported the card lost soon after the fraudulent transaction, 
as the card was blocked at 10:30am. Mr I has been consistent in his explanation of 
events.
 
Several large transactions were attempted prior to the fraudulent transaction -  but these 
werent successful as there were insufficient funds in the account. Further attempts were 
also made on the same day soon after the card was blocked. Therefore, I think its likely 
the person carrying out these transactions didnt know the balance on the account or that 
the card had been blocked. 
The size of the transactions and frequent attempts to withdraw money indicate a pattern 
of fraudulent behaviour. 
Mr I has provided information from social media which demonstrates that other people 
have also had problems with this ATM. 
In response to the investigators opinion, Caxton maintained that Mr I failed with gross 
negligence in protecting his card and PIN. I havent seen any evidence from Caxton to 
support their approach but Ive considered their argument.
Negligence is often referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. So, I think its fair 
and reasonable to conclude, the use of 'gross negligence', rather than mere 'negligence', 
suggests a level of recklessness, or lack of care, that goes significantly beyond ordinary 
negligence or carelessness. 
Ive thought about whether Mr I acted with gross negligence but Im satisfied that he didnt. I 
say this because instead I think his card and PIN were more likely than not obtained by 
sophisticated fraudsters targeting the ATM. In conclusion Im not satisfied that Mr I 
authorised the disputed transaction or that he failed with gross negligence to keep his card 
and PIN safe. Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above Im satisfied that Mr I didnt authorise the disputed 
transaction and is entitled to a refund.
My final decision
My Final decision is I direct Caxton FX LTD to:
Refund Mr I £126.57 plus 8% interest from the date of the transaction to the date of 
settlement. 
If Caxton considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to withhold 
income tax from those parts of the award constituting the 8% interest, it should tell Mr I how 
much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman