DRN-3643831
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society has failed to log a complaint properly, and 
that a member of its staff stopped him getting to a counter in branch.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr M went into a Nationwide branch and was spoken to by a member 
of staff who was meeting and greeting customers. This staff member asked him what he 
needed in the branch, but Mr M didnt want to say as he was carrying cash that he wanted 
to deposit. He raised a concern about this, and a neighbouring branch manager tried to 
call him to discuss it. When she and Mr M couldnt speak on the phone, she sent him an 
email. It seems he didnt reply.
In February 2022 Mr M again went to branch to deposit cash, and again was asked the 
reason for his visit by the member of staff directing customers in the branch. Again, he 
didnt want to say he was carrying cash and felt that the member of staff was rude and 
passive aggressive, physically blocking his path to the counter.
Nationwide did not accept that it had done anything wrong. Mr M brought his complaint to 
this service, and the adjudicator looked at everything before deciding that there was no 
evidence that Nationwide had done anything wrong. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M doesnt accept that and has asked an Ombudsman to look at his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have found no evidence of a mistake by Nationwide, so am not 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why, dealing with each of Mr Ms concerns in turn.
Is there evidence to show that Nationwide has deliberately put obstacles in the way of 
logging complaints?
In short, no. Mr M says that Nationwide didnt respond to him properly when he raised 
concerns in December 2021, and that it didnt log those concerns as a complaint.
However, I dont think this equates to Nationwide preventing the logging of complaints. It 
has a clear process for staff to follow when customers raise concerns. Moreover, Im 
satisfied that the branch manager tried to contact him both by phone and email to clarify his 
concerns and whether he wished to raise an official complaint. The fact that they werent 
able to speak and so the matter didnt progress until February 2022 is unfortunate, but not 
the result of a mistake by Nationwide.
Is it OK for Nationwide to have members of staff greeting customers in branch and directing 
them, according to the reason for their visit?
It is not really my role to comment on businesses processes, rather to identify where 
mistakes have happened which have caused a loss to the consumer. But I dont think it is 
either unfair or unreasonable for Nationwide to have an in-branch system where staff 
members meet, greet and direct customers. Mr M has said that he didnt wish to say in 
public that he was carrying cash. However, he has also said that on at least one occasion 
there were no other people in the queue, and described the branch as very 
empty. So I am slightly unclear on what the risk was of him simply saying why he was 
there.
In any event, I dont think there is a problem with this process, and there is insufficient 
evidence for me to conclude on the balance of probabilities that Nationwide staff were rude 
or passive aggressive.
Having found no evidence of mistakes by Nationwide, it follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Nationwide doesnt need to 
do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman