DRN-4520780
The complaint
H (a Limited Company) complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc took too long to settle its 
insurance claim. Its also unhappy with the amount they offered.
What happened
H had a property which was rented out as several flats. AXA provided the insurance for it, 
along with a number of other properties. The property which is the subject of this complaint 
suffered extensive damage, so H made a claim for the repairs.
AXA took quite some time to validate the claim, but those delays were the subject of a 
previous complaint. This case focusses on the settlement amount. AXA said the property 
was underinsured so they had applied whats known as average when calculating a cash 
settlement.
AXA said if H didnt want to accept a cash settlement, they could instruct independent 
surveyors to put together a full scope of work and to reassess the value at risk, i.e. the total 
rebuild cost. H declined that offer and maintained the property wasnt underinsured, that 
AXA had overvalued it and therefore the application of average was unfair.
An investigator here looked into the matter, they said AXA had treated H fairly and so they 
didnt uphold the complaint.
H didnt agree. Briefly, H said the interim payment of £150,000 was insufficient and never 
viewed as a total settlement including loss of rent. H said the reason the offer of an 
independent surveyor was declined was because hed lost faith in AXA and because he was 
of the view it wouldnt be accurate given how long had passed since the loss occurred.
H suggested the day one uplift allowed for in the policy should be considered when 
assessing any underinsurance, particularly given the increase in building costs in recent 
years. And in any event, he said hed provided a rebuild estimate that was in line with the 
sum insured. H also suggested that if AXA cannot accept the losses presented then it would 
take the matter to court. The matter couldnt be resolved so has been passed to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision last month, in which I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant say AXAs settlement offer was unfair. So, while Ive considered the 
case in a different way from the investigator, I dont think they need to go any further. Ill 
explain why.
First of all, I dont agree with average being used in the settlement calculation. Rather, I think 
AXA ought to have considered the provisions set out in the Insurance Act 2015. But, even if 
they had done that, it wouldnt have materially altered the settlement amount, in this 
particular case, so theres no further payments due to H (save for those already offered, or 
any which may not have previously been considered).
The Insurance Act 2015 covers misrepresentation, in that it sets out what insurers are able 
to do in the event that the risk they insured turns out to be different from the risk that was 
presented to them. This is mostly relevant when the insurer considers the risk presented was 
inadequate, and the Act sets out what remedies are available to them when settling claims.
H took its policy out through an insurance intermediary (or broker). Between the two of them 
they are required to present the risk accurately. As far as I am aware, H hasnt pursued a 
case against the broker and I havent seen enough to suggest either of them consider there 
to have been anything wrong with the figures presented. That means I move on to how AXA 
has considered those figures against their own.
AXA considered the property to have a value at risk of around £900,000, against the insured 
value at risk of £519,100. AXAs figure was provided to them by their surveyors, and was 
verified by another as being reasonable, so on the face of things, I consider it appropriate for 
AXA to trust and rely upon it. H say its too high and is unjustified. But, I havent seen 
enough from H to make me agree with that.
While H provided a rebuild estimate of around £650,000, AXA wasnt persuaded by it. They 
explained to H that it didnt allow for a number of significant costs that wouldve been 
incurred and that, once included, it would have been broadly comparable to their estimate of 
£900,000. As far as I can see, H didnt contest this.
And I dont consider the day one average terms in the policy to be applicable because the 
policy says if the declared value is less than the cost of reinstatement then any proportionate 
reduction will be limited to the proportion of the declared value, i.e. not the day one average, 
or uplift as it may be viewed.
Returning to the Insurance Act 2015, as opposed to the application of average. This 
provides for insurers to reduce claims by a percentage based on the premium charged and 
the higher premium they would have charged had they been aware of the risk at stake. This 
is also provided for in the policy terms and conditions. And in this case, AXA have confirmed 
that the original underlying premium was £1,055.99, but if the value at risk had been 
£900,000 it would have cost £1,659.65.
So, claim settlement would be on an approximate basis of 63% (give or take decimal points).
AXA considered the reinstatement works to the property would be £210,000. Using the 
average calculation AXA said payment would be around £124,000. It would be around 
£132,000 using the Insurance Act 2015 provisions. But AXAs interim payment was higher 
than both of those, so I dont think it was unreasonable either way.
I think one of the main issues here is that AXA offered what they considered to be a fair and 
reasonable interim payment. I cant see that it wasnt thought through nor that they didnt 
consider factors such as loss of rent, and it was an interim payment after all. So, I consider 
their approach to have been reasonable in the circumstances. Of course, it may well have
proven more accurate to have an independent surveyor put together a fuller report with a full 
scope of works  so as to provide further view on the value at risk and underinsurance.
But H declined that offer. And while I can understand it having lost faith in AXA  including 
the reasons why, such as the passage of time  the declinature didnt help advance Hs 
position. Furthermore, if H wanted to provide further evidence to support its view, then itd have been welcome to do so. It is also of note that H sold the property in May 2021, so such 
an option no longer remains available.
As things stand, and considering loss of rent, AXA have said there is a further amount of 
£84,000 on offer and open for acceptance by H (and that it has been for some time). Id add 
that while H said payments previously offered didnt include loss of rent its clear to me that 
those discussions were had. Given everything above, and taking into account the provisions 
of the Insurance Act, I believe it is now for H to consider that (which is in addition to the 
£150,000 interim payment) or seek guidance on alternatives such as possible court action.
H has referred to some other issues within their responses to us. These include having to 
bear additional premiums and significant excesses as a result of the requirement to declare 
AXAs subsequent refusal to offer policy renewal. I consider these to be new issues which H 
may wish to pursue with AXA separately.
H has also referred to the loss of council tax. I note its policy says loss of rent includes the 
costs of local authority rates on empty premises. Although there are conditions attached to 
that. I couldnt see that AXA had considered this and so in the first instance I think that would 
be for them to do before I should comment on it. If AXA thinks these are included in their 
total offer, they should provide relevant information in their response.
Overall, I consider this case to have had a number of complications from the beginning. My 
focus has been the claim settlement amount. AXAs offer wasnt unreasonable, when based 
on information available to them, and I havent seen enough from H to make me think 
otherwise.
H replied to my provisional decision. It said it was surprised to learn there was a further 
£84,000 on offer and open for acceptance, H said no such formal offer had been received 
and that it was inadequate because it didnt appear to include any provision for council tax.
H considered a total of approximately £106,000 would be more appropriate.
H also provided estimates which it considered to show the property was more than 
adequately insured. Although it said, in the alternative, H ought to be allowed to 
retrospectively pay the difference in premium referred to by AXA, so as to avoid the need for 
a proportionate settlement.
AXAs reply to my provisional decision focussed on my comments relating to council tax. 
They said, they would need evidence of H paying the council tax in order to consider this 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I maintain the findings set out in my provisional decision, although I will 
address the points made in response to that.
knowledge of the additional £84,000 and its adequacy
H says it wasnt aware there remained £84,000 open to acceptance. It also says this figure is 
inadequate on account of it not including council tax. But AXAs records, from September 
2001, refer to an offer of £230,000, in an effort to conclude matters, being turned down by H. 
And in one of AXAs internal emails, from a few months later, there is reference to the figure of £234,000 being suggested to Hs broker (which I consider to be reasonably taken as 
being the £150,000 plus the £84,000).
Based on what Ive seen, I cant know for certain whether this figure was put forward to H 
directly. But the evidence Ive seen suggests it was at least discussed with his broker and as 
they were acting for H, I dont consider that to be unreasonable.
Turning to its adequacy, H has suggested it ought to include provision for council tax. I put it 
to the parties in my provisional decision that this didnt appear to have been considered by 
AXA. They have been unable to confirm otherwise and have said they would need sight of 
evidence from H to consider further. Bearing in mind its reasonable for evidence of losses to 
be requested, and considered, this is a fair suggestion.
the underinsurance and proportionate settlement
H has provided two estimates. One is said to be for the repairs at around £300,000, 
including VAT. The other is said to be for the rebuild cost at around £650,000, including 
VAT.
It is the rebuild cost that is important when considering the adequacy of the value at risk. 
That was addressed in my provisional decision, and I maintain for the same reasons, it 
wasnt unreasonable for AXA trust and rely upon their own surveyors estimates when they 
were considering underinsurance/the Insurance Act 2015.
That said, the cost of repairs (or reinstatement) becomes important when calculating the 
proportionate settlement. AXA considered reinstatement would be £210,000 which, as 
covered in my provisional decision, would come out as £132,000 against an interim offer of 
£150,000.
Using Hs reinstatement estimate of c£300,000 it would come out at around £189,000 on a 
proportionate settlement. I do appreciate that is greater than the £150,000 interim offer. But 
Im mindful that it was an interim offer and so could have been revised upwards if the actual 
costs incurred were greater. Im also mindful that H declined the offer of having an 
independent surveyor provide a further estimate of the repair costs and value at risk. So, I 
dont think AXAs approach here to have been unreasonable.
H has also suggested an alternative to following the proportionate settlement route, for it to 
make up the shortfall in premium in order to remove that from the calculation. In other words, 
H pays the premium AXA would have charged based on their view of value at risk and AXA 
pays the settlement in full.
However, as AXA has followed the provisions set out in the Insurance Act 2015  in terms of 
reducing the settlement proportionately  I see no reason to find their approach to have been 
unfair or unreasonable.
Based on the surveyors opinions obtained by AXA they considered H to have provided an 
inadequate value at risk, and in doing so had shown a lack of reasonable care, when giving 
details of the risk being undertaken by them in agreeing to insure the property. It was 
reasonable for AXA to view this as a lack of reasonable care, particularly as H is a limited 
company and is in the business of property. And while H doesnt think the value at risk was 
inadequate, I have explained why I consider AXAs stance on this to have been fair.
In this case, if AXA wished to settle the claim in a more generous manner than the Act 
requires that would be a decision for them to make, not me.In view of all of the above, I remain satisfied that AXAs approach to the settlement 
calculation of Hs claim was appropriate  including the additional offer of £84,000 and the 
consideration of council tax on provision of further evidence.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman