DRN-2593882
The complaint
Mr H complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) mis-sold a hire
purchase agreement through its agents and that it didnt treat him fairly when he started
finding it difficult to make the payments due under that agreement.
What happened
In July 2016 Mr H took out a 48-month hire purchase agreement for a new car. The
agreement recorded that the car had a cash price of just under £31,000 and that Mr H would
take credit of a little under £28,000. The monthly payments would be £524.30 and a balloon
payment of £8,230.90 would be due at the end of the hire period. Mr H had an annual
mileage allowance of 28,000 miles under the agreement.
In early 2019 Mr H contacted VWFS to say that he was finding it difficult to make the monthly
payments needed under the agreement. He was told that he could end the agreement
voluntarily if he made a payment of £357.49. He could not afford that. Further discussions 
took place in February and March 2019 and the amount needed to terminate the agreement 
increased.
In May 2019 VWFS contacted Mr H to say that the agreement would be transferred to its
partner (which it didnt name, but this appears to have been a reference to instructing
solicitors); the arrears balance at that point was just over £2,000. VWFS terminated the
agreement and indicated that it would take steps to repossess the car.
VWFS did then take possession of the car and sold it at auction. That left a balance due 
under the hire purchase agreement of just under £7,000. VWFS instructed solicitors to 
pursue that debt.
Mr H referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had
happened. She thought, in summary, that Mr H should have been given the option of making
the payment needed for voluntary termination in instalments. Had that happened instead of
repossession, Mr Hs debt would have been reduced to £2,097.20, so the investigator
recommended that VWFS reduce the outstanding debt to that sum. The investigator didnt
accept however that the hire purchase agreement had been mis-sold. VWFS didnt accept
the investigators recommendations and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from the investigator, 
issued a provisional decision. I summarise below my provisional findings:
I did not think the agreement had been mis-sold. Its terms were clear and unambiguous. 
Mr H had really only had concerns about the agreement when external factors meant 
that he found it difficult to make the monthly payments.  
Mr H was entitled to end the agreement by giving notice and paying, in total, half of the 
amount due under the hire purchase agreement. He had paid £357.49 less than that. 
The investigator had said that VWFS should have allowed Mr H to make payments in 
instalments, but it was not clear how Mr H could have afforded a payment plan. 
The effect of the investigators recommendation would have been to treat Mr H as if he 
had paid half of what was due under the hire purchase agreement, whereas he had not 
done so.
In conclusion, I didnt think that VWFS had treated Mr H unfairly. 
Mr H made a number of comments in response to my provisional decision. In summary, he 
said:
The agreement was not a hire purchase agreement, but a personal contract purchase. It 
was for a single car, not a fleet and was not a business agreement.
It was not explained to him that the whole amount due under the agreement would be 
payable if he missed a single payment.
He had made payments for two years and had almost paid half the amount due under 
the agreement. 
The monthly payment was too much as the mileage allowance was too high. 
He did not need to keep the car and did not expect his finances to improve  as indeed 
they have not. 
VWFS did not advise him that payment of the £357.49 could be made over time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I have not changed me view from that set out in my provisional decision. 
Mr H has explained some of the financial and personal pressures he is under and said that 
other creditors have been more accommodating than VWFS has. He has my sympathy, and 
I would remind VWFS of the need to treat cases of financial difficulty positively and 
sympathetically, but I dont believe that Mr Hs unfortunate circumstances are necessarily 
reasons to reduce the amount due under his agreement with VWFS. 
Mr H says that his agreement was not a hire purchase agreement, but a personal contract 
purchase agreement. It was however headed Hire Purchase Agreement regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 and met the definition of a hire purchase agreement in section 
189 of that statute. It was, as Mr H says, a personal agreement and so provided him with 
various consumer protections under that and other legislation  including the right to refer his 
complaint to this service. 
Mr H says it was not explained that missing a payment would mean the full amount due 
under the agreement was payable. In fact, a missed payment did not automatically mean 
that. Clause 2.5 of the agreement did say, however, that missing a payment could have 
severe consequences, including the serving of a default notice, on the expiry of which the 
agreement could be ended; clause 10 set out what payments would be owing in those 
circumstances.  
As Mr H acknowledges, he had paid almost half the amount due under the agreement. Had 
he paid half, he would have been able to return the car without paying any more. That was 
one of the rights given to him under sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit Act and 
reflected in the hire purchase agreement. He had not however paid half of what was due  
even though the shortfall was just over £350. Since he could not pay that sum, I do not 
believe it would be fair to treat Mr H as if he had paid it.  I note what Mr H says about the mileage allowance, and an allowance of 28,000 miles a 
year is quite high. It would have affected the monthly payments. It was, however, clearly set 
out in the hire purchase agreement, as were those monthly payments. 
I note too that Mr H says he did not expect his finances to improve. If anything, however, it 
seems to me that this is a reason why VWFS would not agree to a repayment plan. It could 
only do so if there was a realistic expectation of being repaid under that plan. 
Finally, Mr H says that VWFS did not tell him that he could have paid the amount needed to 
reach half the payments due over time. This was not, however, a right he had; it was a 
concession that the investigator thought VWFS should have granted. I did not agree, 
however, since to do so would place Mr H in a better position than he was entitled to be in 
under the agreement and under relevant consumer protection legislation. That would not be 
fair. Further, as I have said, there was in any event no realistic prospect of Mr H being able 
to make payments by instalments.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 March 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman