DRN-3302984
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) didnt tell him of a 
£500 compulsory excess that would be applied to claims for theft of contents.
What happened
When Mr Ss pedal bicycle was stolen, Admiral accepted his claim but told Mr S his policy 
included a £500 compulsory excess which would be applied to it. Mr S told Admiral it hadnt 
made him aware of the £500 compulsory excess.
Mr S also told Admiral he felt the £500 excess was very high. Admirals call handler said he 
usually only sees excesses of this level applied to holiday homes and homes in high risk 
areas. Mr S said neither of these were relevant to him.
Mr S complained and Admirals final response letter said thered been no errors in the 
service Mr S had received. It said Mr Ss compulsory excess had been set correctly but it 
couldnt tell him why itd been set at £500, because this would involve disclosing 
commercially sensitive information to Mr S.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. He said he felt Admiral must have made a mistake when 
setting his compulsory excess at £500. He said Admiral had failed to justify to him why it had 
been set at this amount. He felt Admiral shouldnt have included information about his 
compulsory excess as a click through because this had hidden the information. Mr S said 
Admiral should remove the compulsory excess. He said hed lost out financially because 
hed had to hire a bicycle for a holiday and had been inconvenienced by having to take the 
bus and seek lifts because his bicycle was his sole form of transport.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. She said that although Mr Ss policy document 
showed clearly his £500 compulsory excess for theft, Admiral hadnt provided information to 
demonstrate it had acted in line with its underwriting criteria when calculating his compulsory 
excess. Our investigator said Admiral should recalculate the £500 excess and apply it to Mr 
Ss claim. Admiral disagreed with this view. The complaint was referred to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision was that I was minded not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows: 
Admiral sent Mr S a letter in the post, dated the 7 January 2020, about his policy renewal 
saying that - because Mr S had previously opted to receive his documents online - he should 
go online and carefully check his renewal documents. I can see that Mr Ss policy schedule 
for the relevant policy year clearly shows his compulsory excess for theft of contents is 
£500.
So Im satisfied Admiral provided Mr S with information about his compulsory excess for 
theft and told Mr S he should review his renewal documents.
But Mr S told us he needed to click through to the information about his excesses and felt 
that this hid the information from him. But Mr Ss compulsory excess for theft is shown 
clearly on his policy schedule, which he was told to read. So I dont think its reasonable to 
say that the information about Mr Ss compulsory excess for theft was hidden from him.
Its not my role to tell an insurer how much of an excess it should apply to a consumers 
cover. Excess levels are a matter for an insurers commercial judgement and are based on 
how likely the insurer thinks it is that a particular consumer will make a claim. I can only 
consider whether an insurer has treated Mr S fairly and in line with other customers in a 
similar position. Admiral has provided information confidentially to this service about why it 
set Mr Ss compulsory excess at £500. And from it, I can see Admiral correctly applied its 
underwriting criteria to Mr Ss compulsory excess for theft of contents and didnt treat him 
any differently to other customers in a similar position.
I think its reasonable - because of commercial sensitivities  that Admiral didnt provide Mr 
S with a justification for setting his compulsory excess at £500. Admirals call handler 
referred Mr Ss excess for investigation. And afterwards Admiral confirmed to Mr S that his 
excess had been set correctly, even if it didnt provide the justification Mr S wanted. So 
Admiral did what Id have expected it to here and I cant say its acted unreasonably or 
unfairly.
Mr S said that hed lost out financially when he had to hire a bicycle for a holiday. There is 
no cover under the terms of Mr Ss policy for the provision of an alternative bicycle. And 
because I dont think there was an error when Admiral set Mr Ss excess for theft of contents 
at £500, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Admiral to reimburse Mr Ss hire 
costs.
Im satisfied then that Admiral set Mr Ss excess level correctly and in line with its 
underwriting criteria. And that it included information about Mr Ss compulsory excess for 
theft in Mr Ss policy documentation and that this information wasnt hidden from Mr S. So 
Im not minded to uphold Mr Ss complaint and I dont intend to require Admiral to 
recalculate or remove Mr Ss £500 compulsory excess for theft from his claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral accepted the findings of my provisional decision. Mr S said he is disappointed with 
the outcome but had no further evidence to give. Mr S said he felt Admiral should justify and 
explain its pricing and would like more clarity on this in my Final Decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision.
 For me to provide the clarity Mr S has asked for about Admirals pricing of his policy, Id need 
to disclose parts of Admirals underwriting criteria to Mr S. An insurers underwriting criteria is 
commercially sensitive, so Im unable to discuss Admirals underwriting criteria with Mr S or 
explain to him. But, as I said in my provisional decision, I have reviewed the information 
Admiral provided to this service about why it set Mr Ss compulsory excess at £500. And Im 
satisfied that Admiral correctly applied its underwriting criteria when setting Mr Ss 
compulsory excess.
 
Because Admiral has accepted my provisional decision and Mr Ss response hasnt 
persuaded me to depart from my provisional findings, Ive decided - in line with my 
provisional decision - not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman