DRN-3858890
The complaint
Mr T complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) declined 
a claim he made on his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T has a pet insurance policy with C&G which started on 9 March 2022. 
Mr T says his cat, who Ill refer to as M, went to the vet because he was suffering from 
severe vomiting, lethargy, and an elevated third eyelid. After various investigations and 
treatments it was determined M was suffering from Horners syndrome. 
Mr T says C&G declined to pay out for the costs incurred for M to be treated for his illness. 
Mr T says this is due to Ms history of conjunctivitis and sneezing episodes. C&G said had 
those instances of illness been known to it, all claims in relation to sight, and the respiratory 
system, would have been excluded from the policy. 
When M was presented to the vet in May 2022 he was vomiting, had no appetite and issues 
with his eye. The cat was admitted a few days later for investigation of the inappetence, and 
eye.  Biopsies of his nose showed neutrophilic rhinitis and irregularity of his inner ear. The 
vet confirmed the condition was not related to his previous conjunctivitis in his right eye in 
2014 or 2017. 
C&G declined the claim and so Mr T had to pay £1,355.27 for Ms treatment. Mr T wasnt 
happy and so he complained to C&G. 
C&G said the policy doesnt provide cover for any illness or injury that is pre-existing. Or any 
claim for illness that showed clinical signs or symptoms before the policy start date. It said 
since the condition being claimed for had been presenting in M since before inception of the 
policy it was unable to provide cover.
Mr T didnt accept C&Gs response to his complaint and so referred his concerns to this 
service. 
Mr T was unhappy with C&Gs response and asked us to look into things. One of our 
investigators did so but having reviewed all of the information felt that C&G had declined the 
claim fairly and in line with its policy terms. Mr A didnt agree with this. He said its unfair for 
C&G to decline the claim based on the fact M was treated for other issues prior to the 
inception of the policy. And he said the diagnosis of Horners Syndrome was unrelated to the 
previous issues M had suffered.
Mr T wasnt happy with the outcome of the investigation and so the complaint has come to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it's helpful to explain that I need to consider what the policy says about whether 
claims would be paid in this situation. And if Im satisfied the terms say they wouldnt pay 
out, whether thats a fair and reasonable approach to take. 
The policy has defined some of its terms as follows; 
Pre-existing Condition  any diagnosed or undiagnosed condition and/or associated 
condition which has happened or has shown clinical signs or symptoms of existing in any 
form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Clinical signs  observable changes in your pets normal healthy state, condition, 
appearance, bodily functions, and observed by you or your vet either visually, diagnostically, 
or otherwise.
On page 16 of the policy document it says, any claim for illness or accidental injury that 
relates to a pre-existing condition; any claim for illness or accidental injury that showed 
clinical signs or symptoms before your policy start date or within the waiting period, are 
excluded from cover. 
Mr Ts policy began on 9 March 2022 and therefore illness was not covered by the policy 
until 23 March 2022. Because B don't cover pre-existing conditions it asked C if M had been 
to the vet about anything other than routine appointments, Mr T answered no. I can see from 
the vets notes that Mr T contacted the surgery in April 2014, September 2016, September 
2018, and March 2022 regarding M having various problems with his eyes and respiratory 
issues. I am satisfied Mr T noticed a change in his pets physical appearance as per the 
terms of his policy before the policy start date and didnt tell C&G about this at inception. 
I can see Mr T feels very strongly that the Horners disease is a new condition and not pre-
existing and should therefore be covered by the policy. When looking at complaints such as 
these I look at the terms and conditions of the policy as agreed at the time the policy was 
taken out, and whether the application of the terms was fair in the circumstances. The policy 
is clear on how it defines clinical signs and pre-existing conditions. I am sympathetic to the 
situation Mr T now finds himself in. But that doesnt mean the terms of the insurance policy 
dont apply. 
Mr T says the terms of the policy are unfair, but they are typical to those in other pet 
insurance policies. I dont consider the pre-existing condition term unfair. But in any event Mr 
T would have had the opportunity to review the terms prior to taking out the policy. 
The vet has made representations on behalf of Mr T and says the Horners syndrome isnt 
related to the conjunctivitis in his right eye in 2014 or 2017. I understand that this might be 
the case however the issue here is not whether the conditions are related it is whether M 
was presenting with clinical signs of a condition affecting his eyes prior to the inception of the 
policy. And based on what Ive seen I think he was. And C&G has said if it had been aware 
of this prior to inception of the policy it would have excluded eye conditions from the cover. 
So, taking everything into account I am satisfied C&G acted fairly in not meeting the claim for 
the treatment of the condition. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint against Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman