DRN-3228540
Complaint
Mr K says that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) unfairly paid direct debits from his 
account when he had insufficient funds thus leading to him being substantially overdrawn on 
an unarranged basis.
Background and my provisional 8 December 2021
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns. She didnt think that RBS had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr K unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr K disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.  
On 8 December 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Ks 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that it wasnt in dispute that RBS paid a direct debit that had been 
authorised by Mr K. RBS said that the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account permitted it to 
treat Mr Ks instruction as a request for an unarranged overdraft. 
However, I thought that those same terms and conditions also clearly said that RBS would 
decide whether to accept any request for an unarranged overdraft taking Mr Ks financial 
circumstances into account. And while RBS did accept Mr Ks request, I wasnt persuaded 
that it did take Mr Ks circumstances into account when doing so.
I thought this was the case because the payment RBS made was for over £19,500.00 and 
this was when Mr K only had an agreed overdraft limit of £700. I thought it was also worth 
noting that RBS continued to allow payments to go out of Mr Ks account after this. And he 
ended up more than £30,000.00 overdrawn. 
I hadnt seen anything in Mr Ks statements or in the rest of the information provided that 
indicated Mr Ks financial circumstances warranted accepting a request for such a large 
unarranged overdraft  especially one that was repayable on demand. So, I wasnt at that 
point persuaded that RBS did act fairly and reasonably towards Mr K when it allowed him to 
build up such a large unarranged overdraft balance.
That said, while I didnt think that RBS should have allowed the payments that it did, this 
didnt automatically mean that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. I explained this was 
because ultimately it would only be fair and reasonable for me to uphold Mr Ks complaint if 
he lost out as a result of RBS actions. And having carefully considered everything provided, 
I was minded to find that Mr K didnt lose out as a result of RBS actions in this case. 
I said this because Mr K only paid a limited amount of interest initially (he was charged 
arranged overdraft interest rather than unarranged overdraft interest) and he didnt pay any 
interest at all after July 2020. It was my view that Mr K would more likely than not have paid 
more in interest, fees and charges if RBS hadnt agreed the payments that it did. Equally, as 
some of the payments honoured were for direct debits such as insurance premiums, I 
thought that there could have been other serious unintended consequences if these 
payments hadnt been allowed.
I accepted that Mr K was unhappy that negative information had been recorded on his credit 
file. But it seemed to me that this was an inevitable consequence of Mr Ks financial position. 
It was my view that Mr K not having the funds to pay the direct debits he authorised meant 
that either his credit card company would have recorded adverse information because he 
would have missed payments, or RBS would have recorded such information because he 
couldnt repay what he now owed it. I couldnt see a situation where interest would have 
been frozen in the way it had been here without some adverse information being recorded 
on Mr Ks credit file, by one of his creditors.
Furthermore, I thought that even if there may have been some miscommunication over how 
this debt would be recorded on Mr Ks credit file, requiring RBS to remove all adverse 
information as Mr K wanted it to, wouldnt reflect what has happened or even what is more 
likely than not to have happened had RBS not allowed these payments. 
I thought that the overall effect of removing any adverse information here would require RBS 
to record that Mr K settled this debt in full and on time. It was my view that this would be 
unfair to RBS and Mr K, unreasonable its logic and inaccurate if I asked RBS to amend      
Mr Ks credit file in this way  when this debt, or at best but for RBS actions an equivalent 
debt of some form had been, or would have been outstanding for some time. I thought that 
this would arguably be counterproductive and not in Mr Ks interests or that of any potential 
future lender.
So overall while I wasnt necessarily persuaded that RBS should have allowed the direct 
debit payments in question to have been paid from Mr Ks account, even though he 
authorised them, I was minded to issue a final decision which found that Mr K didnt lose out 
as a result of this. As this was the case, I set out that I was intending to issue a final decision 
which didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint or direct RBS to take any further action.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither RBS or Mr K responded to my provisional decision or provided anything further for 
me to think about.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in 
order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision or provided me with anything further 
to think about, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So overall and having 
considered everything, Im still not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 8 December 2021, 
Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman