DRN-3319827
The complaint
Mr C says NewDay Ltd allowed him to access borrowing on his credit card account after he 
explained his mental health was impacting his spending and behaviour at the time. Hes also 
unhappy he was led to believe his account wouldnt be defaulted but it was.
Mr C is represented in his complaint by his wife (Mrs C). Shes also been heavily involved in 
managing his account and supporting him so I will refer to them both in this decision.
What happened
Mr C took out a credit card in January 2014. NewDay has said from August to October 2017, 
he used the card for cash withdrawals. Hes explained this was part of his compulsive 
spending habit. In October 2017, Mr C told NewDay he was struggling to make his 
repayments due to an administrative issue. He said it was short-term so it agreed to set up a 
payment plan for two months.
In December 2017, Mrs C says she repaid the outstanding balance on Mr Cs account of 
around £2640 over the phone. NewDays given us a recording of parts of this call with Mr C 
and collections notes from the time which show a third-party payment was made. Mrs C says 
during this call, she asked NewDay not to give Mr C any further credit due to his mental 
health. Shes explained despite this, he was able to continue spending on the credit card and 
built up the balance again with cash withdrawals. In March 2018, Mrs C says she paid off the 
balance again and had the same conversation a second time with NewDay. Over the next 
few months, Mr Cs balance built up to near the limit again. He made minimum payments but 
as interest accrued, he went over the limit and charges were applied.
Around October 2018, Mr C again let NewDay know he was struggling to make payments 
due to a short-term issue with his income. He said he was having problems with his direct 
debits and payments to his accounts. This was similar to the reason he gave the previous 
year. NewDay put a plan in place again. And the following month, Mr C called NewDay to 
explain he was vulnerable and needed its support. He also gave it authority to speak to 
Mrs C. At this point, NewDay referred him to its customer care team.
 Mrs Cs told us Mr C has a serious mental health condition which affects his behaviour and 
spending habits. Shes explained he suffered from a mental breakdown and was suicidal. 
And this was made worse by NewDays actions. In particular, she says it agreed to write off 
his outstanding debt after receiving evidence of his circumstances but has recorded his 
account as in default on his credit file. This has affected his ability to get further borrowing. 
She also says NewDay initially said it would record the debt as partially settled but hasnt.
NewDay has said Mr C didnt ask it to restrict his spending or tell it about his mental health 
until November 2018, at which point it took the appropriate action by referring him to the 
customer care team. Its given us call recordings and notes to show this. Whilst its agreed 
not to pursue the outstanding debt, it thinks it defaulted Mr Cs account appropriately  but it 
accepts it shouldnt have said it would be reported as partially settled.
As things werent resolved, Mrs C contacted our service on Mr Cs behalf. She explained 
Mr C wants NewDay to remove the default from his credit file and reduce the balance of his 
account to £0. She gave us letters from Mr Cs doctors explaining hes been seriously unwell 
for some time and didnt have the capacity to realise the impact of his spending.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He didnt think NewDay shouldve been aware 
of Mr Cs circumstances or done more to support him earlier than it did. And he thought it 
correctly defaulted his account. But he directed it to pay £100 compensation to make up for 
incorrectly saying his account would be recorded as partially settled. NewDay accepted our 
investigators assessment but Mr C didnt. So the case was passed to me to decide.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. Based on what Id seen so 
far, I upheld the complaint in part in summary because:
From listening to the call in November 2018, it seemed to me that Mr and Mrs C were 
asking for support for the first time as there was no indication theyd explained anything 
about Mr Cs circumstances before or they were dissatisfied it hadnt been acted on.
I thought it was more likely from the evidence, Mrs C did speak to NewDay to repay the 
balance on Mr Cs credit card. But I wasnt satisfied she made it aware of the further 
support needed before November 2018.
I thought NewDay shouldve been alerted that there might be an issue from Mr Cs 
erratic use of the account. He repeatedly reached the limit on his credit card through 
cash withdrawals  and I thought that was unusual, especially within the timeframes he 
did it in. And he struggled to maintain payments, giving similar reasons why each time. 
I didnt think NewDay did enough by putting repayment plans in place when Mr C said he 
was struggling  and I thought it couldve checked in with him or intervened in some way.
I thought the only appropriate actions NewDay couldve taken wouldnt have prevented 
Mr C from spending excessively given what I understood about his mental health. But I 
thought it should make up for not taking any action at all by paying him compensation. 
And I explained I could only consider the impact on him as the eligible complainant. 
NewDay has a duty to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies about 
how Mr C managed his account. And as he was unable to meet his obligations under the 
agreement, it was appropriate for NewDay to record this as a default on his credit file. 
I didnt think it would be fair to direct NewDay to record the account as partially settled 
when it wasnt  even though itd incorrectly said it would be at one point. 
I understood Mr C wouldve felt disappointed to know hed been given the wrong 
information about what would be recorded on his credit file and I thought NewDay 
couldve explained this better. But I thought it had offered enough to make up for that. 
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached my final decision. Neither party accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs C responded in writing and 
spoke to my colleague over the phone which Ive listened to a recording of. And they were 
sent recordings of the calls NewDay gave us. In summary, theyve said:
They asked NewDay to write off the debt and not to record a default on Mr Cs credit file. 
But it still did so, despite all of the evidence it had about his health.
NewDay initially said it would write off the debt and then recorded it as partially settled. It 
was only after Mr C tried to negotiate on this, it defaulted his account. 
Unlike NewDay, other creditors have treated Mr C fairly by negotiating with him and 
writing off all of or some of his debt. 
There were alternative options NewDay couldve explored before defaulting Mr Cs 
account. But by not taking them, its had a very damaging effect on him and his family. 
Our service has been told repeatedly that Mrs C made NewDay fully aware of Mr Cs 
mental health and asked it to not give him further credit. But I seem to have missed this.
They are concerned that I dont seem to know  or Im not sure about  whats 
happened. So they think Ive taken NewDays word over theirs. 
NewDays actions show its dishonest and disingenuous. They question whether its 
given us all of the information available  and whether Ive listened to the call recordings. 
Mrs C was in a position to repay the outstanding balance on two occasions due to 
inheritances she received at the time. And a third-party repaying Mr Cs debt shouldve 
alerted NewDay there was something wrong after hed reached his limit so quickly. 
Based on what we do know (in particular the seriousness of Mr Cs health issues and 
that Mrs C wouldnt want to keep repaying his debts), it should be more likely to me that 
they made NewDay aware of the situation so it wouldnt happen again.
They believe NewDays only acted when its really had to  when Mr and Mrs C provided 
evidence of Mr Cs extreme ill health.
They provided letters and statements sent to Mr C by NewDay. Theyve highlighted in its 
letter sent in March 2019, NewDay acknowledged Mrs C had asked it not to give Mr C 
any further credit but it didnt explain to her at the time that it couldnt act on her request.
To put things right, Mr C wanted the default removed and for NewDay to be held 
accountable. And he thought the compensation Id suggested it pay was insulting. 
NewDay didnt agree it should pay any further compensation. It said in summary:
It wasnt obliged to monitor the use of Mr Cs cash transactions and it doesnt agree it 
shouldve intervened earlier due to Mr C making cash withdrawals. 
In October 2017, the notes show Mr C was having difficulties because his benefit had 
stopped but theres no evidence he couldnt have paid if that wasnt the case. 
Neither Mr nor Mrs C asked for the account to be closed in December 2017. And in any 
event, Mrs C didnt have the authority to do so. 
If Mrs C hadnt repaid the balances, the account wouldve defaulted earlier. It only became aware of Mr Cs health in November 2018 after he spent on the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part still, Ill explain why.
Support provided
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C maintain that they made NewDay aware of Mr Cs ill mental 
health before November 2018. But I have to weigh up their testimony  what theyve said  
against all of the evidence I have available. And on balance, I cant say its more likely they 
did. Whilst we dont have recordings of all of the calls between the parties, we do have the 
call from December 2017 when Mrs C said she first told NewDay about the circumstances 
and November 2018 when both parties agree it was discussed. 
From listening to all of the call recordings including the one from December 2017, I found 
there were no references to Mr Cs mental health and the difficulties he was going through. 
And more significantly, in November 2018 when Mrs C shared the information with NewDay, 
there was no sign of disappointment or upset that it hadnt been acted on already. And Id 
expect that if shed already made it aware on at least two occasions. 
Mrs C has highlighted she used funds shed received from inheritances to repay Mr Cs debt 
and it was important to her not to be put in that position again. Im very sorry to hear what 
Mrs C went through  and I accept it mustve been extremely difficult for her. But its 
because of how important it mustve been to Mrs C not to be put in this position again that I 
think if she had told NewDay about Mr Cs circumstances and it hadnt done anything to 
restrict his spending, its likely she wouldve raised a complaint much sooner. 
Ive looked carefully at the letters Mr and Mrs C have sent our service  in particular the final 
response letter from March 2019 in which they think NewDay accepted it was asked to 
decline Mr Cs credit card application. But it seems to me in this letter, NewDay was trying to 
confirm its understanding of the complaint by repeating what had been said. And in the body 
of the letter, it explained it didnt know about Mr Cs health until November 2018.
Mr and Mrs C have also provided statements which they say show Mrs C paid off the 
outstanding borrowing and immediately afterwards, a new credit limit was available. It might 
be helpful to explain here, Mr C had revolving credit  a credit card. So that means its open 
ended and customers can use it whenever they want, up to the limit provided. So NewDay 
didnt grant Mr C further borrowing each month  hed freed up the previously agreed limit. I 
note Mr C didnt terminate the agreement which wouldve stopped him from spending further.
Mrs C says even if she did ask NewDay to restrict Mr Cs account, it wouldnt have followed 
her instructions anyway  and she wasnt made aware of this. But in November 2018, when 
Im satisfied she did speak to NewDay, I think it listened to her, arranged to add her as an 
authorised person and put Mr C in touch with the customer care team block his account. So 
Im satisfied it wouldve acted upon the information about Mr Cs health if Mrs C had given it 
earlier even though she wasnt named on the account. 
I assure Mr and Mrs C Ive understood their testimony and I know theyve given us the same 
information repeatedly about what happened. But considering everything Ive been given by 
both sides, Im not satisfied its more likely NewDay was aware of Mr Cs circumstances 
before November 2018. And I havent seen anything to make me think its withheld evidence.Mr and Mrs C also argue NewDay shouldve realised there was a problem as she, as a third-
party, paid Mr Cs debt. I dont think this alone shouldve alerted NewDay Mr C mightve 
been struggling  as its not unusual for partners to financially support each other. But for the 
reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I do think NewDay shouldve noticed there might 
be a problem sooner than it did because of how Mr Cs account was managed.
NewDay doesnt agree with what Ive said here as it doesnt think it needed to monitor 
Mr Cs cash withdrawals. And I accept it couldnt have known what he was spending the 
cash funds on. But withdrawing cash is a very expensive way of using a credit card. In 
Mr Cs case, looking at a selection of his statements, it cost him around 6% more in interest 
than standard purchases. So I think NewDay shouldve been alert to this unusual way of 
spending, particularly considering the short amount of time Mr C repeatedly reached his limit 
in through cash withdrawals. And at that point, I think it shouldve done something to check 
in with him  to make sure he understood the extra expense he was incurring from using his 
card in that way, and check everything was ok.
Registering the default
I appreciate Mr C is unhappy a default has been registered on his credit file. But considering 
he wasnt able to meet his obligations under the credit agreement, Im satisfied NewDay has 
reported this accurately. 
Its unfortunate Mr C was given the wrong information  that his debt would be recorded as 
partially or completely settled. But my role is to put customers in the position they wouldve 
been in if nothing had gone wrong. And in my view, whats gone wrong isnt that a default 
has been recorded (as thats an accurate reflection of whats happened). but its that Mr C 
was initially given incorrect information about what would happen. And I think NewDays 
already done enough to put that right. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I think NewDay should pay Mr C a further £200 for not identifying from 
the management of his account he needed support and providing it to him. Thats in addition 
to the £100 our investigator already recommended  so £300 altogether.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and direct NewDay Ltd to put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman