DRN-2750239
The complaint
Mr H complains about the refund he received when Insurance Factory Ltd cancelled his 
motor insurance policy. He wants a pro-rata refund of his premium. 
What happened
Mr H changed his car, but Insurance Factory said the new car couldnt be added to his 
policy. So it cancelled the policy and calculated that no refund was due based on the insurer 
charging short-term rates for his time on cover. After the complaint came to us, the insurer 
said this was incorrect and Insurance Factory should have charged Mr H pro-rata for his time 
on cover. So Insurance Factory then provided him with a refund.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Insurance 
Factory had reasonably cancelled the policy as the new car couldnt be added to it and so 
there was no insurable interest. But he thought Mr H shouldnt have to bring his complaint to 
us in order to receive a correct refund. He thought Insurance Factory should pay Mr H £50 
compensation for not providing him with the correct refund in the first instance.
Insurance Factory replied that if it had applied the pro-rata charge for cover when the policy 
was cancelled, Mr H would still not be due any refund. So it thought the error hadnt caused 
him any detriment. It said it had paid Mr H a refund as a gesture of goodwill. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr H complained because he thought he was due a pro-rata refund for his unused 
cover when Insurance Factory cancelled his policy. Insurance Factory said he would be 
charged short-term rates and, based on this, no refund was due when it cancelled his policy. 
Insurance Factory said its Terms of Business explain that short-terms rates would be 
charged for time on cover on cancellation. But the insurer told us that this wasnt correct, and 
I think Insurance Factory has made an error. Ive looked at Insurance Factorys Terms of 
Business, and it says, 
Premium refunds on cancellation: Practices vary between insurers so please refer to your 
policy documentation to find out what amount of premium, if any, is refundable in the event 
of cancellation.
I can see that the short-term rates are set out in the policy booklet provided to Mr H. But this 
wasnt provided by the insurer. So I think I can rely on its email to us that Insurance Factory 
applied the incorrect charges for cover at cancellation.
When a business makes a mistake, as Insurance Factory has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Insurance Factory said that it initially calculated the refund by waiving some of its 
cancellation charges so that Mr H wasnt charged more than hed paid at inception. It said 
this would have been the same if pro-rata charges had been applied for Mr Hs time on 
cover. But in that case, its likely that Mr H wouldnt have brought his complaint to us. This 
cost Mr H his time, effort and inconvenience. 
So I think Insurance Factory caused Mr H avoidable trouble and upset and I think it should 
compensate him for this. Its already paid Mr H a refund as a gesture of goodwill. But I dont 
think this goes far enough. The investigator recommended that Insurance Factory should 
pay Mr H £50 compensation for the impact of its error. I think thats fair and reasonable as I 
think its in keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances.
Putting things right
I require Insurance Factory Ltd to pay Mr H £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Insurance Factory Ltd to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman