DRN-3895540
The complaint
Mr P complains that Loans 2 Go Limited has reported adverse information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr P says he took out a Loans 2 Go loan that he was unable to repay. He says a County 
Court Judgement (CCJ) was made and a charging order obtained. But says the adverse 
information is still being recorded on his credit file for some nine years after the event. Mr P 
says the loan itself is still being recorded as being delinquent and would like all of the 
information removed from his credit file. He says his credit report shows missed payments.
Loans 2 Go says the account is not statute barred as a charging order is held. It says it isnt 
responsible for the CCJ being reported to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and says it 
was obtained in February 2016.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and initially our investigator upheld the complaint and 
thought the loan account should no longer be reported to the CRAs. Loans 2 Go provided 
further information and the investigator re-considered his view and thought it hadnt made a 
mistake by reporting the loan account to the CRAs in these circumstances.
Mr P doesnt accept that view.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and came to the provisional view that its not 
fair or reasonable to report adverse information to the CRAs about late payments every 
month.
I was satisfied, having looked at Loans 2 Gos records, that the CCJ was obtained in 
February 2016 and so would be reported on Mr Ps credit file until February 2022. I 
appreciated Mr P says the adverse information has been reported for some nine years but I 
disagreed and could see that the CCJ was no longer being reported. I said that Mr P knows 
that information remains on a credit file for six years and so I didnt think Loans 2 Go had 
acted unfairly or made a mistake about that part of the complaint.
There was no dispute here that Loans 2 Go in addition to the CCJ also obtained a charging 
order.  I said there was no need for that information to be reported on Mr Ps credit file and 
no suggestion that it was. I appreciated Loans 2 Go says the Limitation Act doesnt apply 
and so is entitled to report the account position to the CRAs. But I had to consider what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and that any reported information 
was accurate.
I was satisfied that Loans to Go obtained a charging order in respect of Mr Ps property. And 
that Mr P didnt dispute that the Limitation Act allows proceedings to be brought outside of 
the usual six-year period. But Mr P said it is unfair to record the adverse information about 
his account.
I was satisfied that the original credit agreement had now been terminated and instalments 
were no longer required. The debt itself has of course not been satisfied but I thought there 
was no longer a credit agreement. So, I was satisfied that it would be unfair for Loans 2 Go 
to report late payments every month to the CRAs as the account is no longer in arrears.
My provisional view was that Loans 2 Go is entitled to report to the CRAs that there was an 
agreement that Mr P did not satisfy but it would be unfair and not accurate to report the 
account as being in arrears or that there are late payments every month. I said it is clear the 
debt has not been satisfied and that is what should be reported.
I could see that the investigator initially thought Mr P ought to be paid £75 compensation. I 
didnt think provisionally that I needed to consider compensation here as Mr Ps complaint 
was about the adverse information. 
Both sides have responded to my provisional decision before the deadline for doing so and 
in those circumstances, I can issue this decision before that deadline.
Mr P accepts my view and Loans 2 Go doesnt wish to make any additional points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for exactly the same reasons.
Putting things right
Loans 2 Go should amend the information it reports to the CRAs as I have made clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Loans 2 Go Limited to stop 
reporting Mr Ps account to the Credit Reference Agencies as being in arrears or that there 
are late payments every month
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman