DRN-1094764
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Metro Bank PLC failed to close her accounts following her instructions 
to do so. She also complains about the customer service she received. Mrs C is represented 
in this complaint by her husband, Mr C.
What happened
Mrs C had a one year Fixed Term Deposit Account with Metro which matured in April 2019. 
She had a second savings account running alongside it to receive the credit interest. In or 
around April 2019 Mr C said he and his wife instructed the bank to close the accounts. 
In June 2019 Mr C spoke to Metro concerning a transfer of money to a new Fixed Term 
Deposit Account which had been opened in his wifes name. During this call Mr C became 
aware that the previous accounts hadnt been closed. He complained to Metro on his wifes 
behalf. 
Metro offered £25 for the inconvenience which Mr C did not accept. He felt it did not come 
close to a reasonable amount to compensate her. 
Following this he discovered that his wife was unable to log on to online banking and she 
would have to re-register. Mr C said the customer service he received in order to sort out the 
online banking was very poor. He further complained to the bank. 
After consideration Metro offered Mrs C a further £50 which Mr C did not accept. He said the 
bank had clearly reneged on his wifes request to close the first accounts which he thought 
was appalling. Mr C didnt think Metro fully understood how serious the mishandling of Mrs 
Cs old accounts was. He became very concerned that had Mrs C not decided to open 
another account it could have been some time before the bank would have acted to close 
the accounts. 
Metro agreed that Mr and Mrs Cs experience with Metro had been a poor one and that there 
were things it could and should have done much better. It apologised and maintained its 
offer of £75 was fair in the circumstances.Mr C remained unhappy and brought his wifes 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator felt that £75 was reasonable for the upset Mrs C had been caused and that 
it wouldnt be fair to ask Metro to do anymore. Mr C disagreed with the investigator, he didnt 
believe this was enough and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He asked that I 
listen to the recording of this call to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C but having done so I wont be 
asking Metro to do anything further. 
First I must reassure Mr C that, as he requested, I have listened to the call between Mr C 
and this service, made after the investigator sent her view. 
Metro has agreed that it should have closed the accounts according to Mrs Cs instruction 
and that it didnt. It also accepted that its customer service was not as it should have been. 
When we assess what level of compensation to award we look at the financial impact on the 
consumer and the level of distress and inconvenience. Mr C has said Mrs C did not suffer 
any direct financial loss due to Metro failing to close the accounts when instructed. But Mr C 
is very concerned that the bank accounts were left open and they would never have 
discovered this had Mrs C not opened another account. Mr C has said its disgraceful 
because this is about peoples money. 
He said it was difficult to assess how much impact this had had on his wife but they have 
been very concerned about what would happen if the accounts had been left open 
indefinitely. Their very real worry was about what might have happened.
I can fully understand Mr Cs frustration and strength of feeling in this matter. I also 
understand why Mr C is concerned. But we dont award compensation on hypothetical 
situations. And while I can see why he would say that neither he nor his wife may have 
discovered the accounts had been left open for a while, in this case the error was, in fact, 
discovered by Mr C reasonably quickly and the accounts were subsequently closed. 
Metro has explained the difficulties Mrs C had in registering for online banking arose 
because its system recognised her as an existing customer. Our approach to when 
businesses should give customers compensation for their distress and inconvenience 
recognises that we all experience a certain amount of inconvenience in our day to day 
dealings with businesses. I dont think Mrs C has experienced a material level of 
inconvenience above and beyond that, so I wouldnt expect her to receive a great amount of 
compensation. 
On this basis I believe £75 total for the distress and inconvenience to be fair and reasonable. 
Mr C has also complained that appropriate checks were not in place within the bank to make 
sure customer instructions were carried out. It's not my role to investigate Metros business 
processes. We are not the regulator, and we dont have a role in reviewing the adequacy of 
a business's processes, in this case the process for closing accounts.
My final decision
Metro Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Metro Bank PLC should pay £75 unless it has already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman