DRN-4020200
The complaint
Mrs P complains One Call Insurance Services Limited mis-sold her motor insurance 
policy since they failed to make clear the extent of the legal cover it provided.
What happened
In the summer of 2022 Mrs P searched for motor insurance through an on-line 
comparison website. She selected the option for quotes that would provide motor legal 
protection. She understood the results of her search had identified insurers that would 
provide legal expenses insurance (LEI). Mrs P decided to buy the insurance offered by 
One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call). And her policy began in late July.
Later that year, Mrs P was involved in a car accident and suffered personal injury. She 
made a claim on the policy arranged through One Call, expecting her policy to provide her 
with cover for the costs of pursuing a legal claim against the third party responsible. When 
she discovered the cover she had was, broadly, limited to legal advice, she complained. 
She said the information shed been given when she bought the policy was misleading. 
And she was unhappy with how her claim was dealt with.
One Call didnt uphold her complaint. They said theyd made clear the limited legal cover 
the policy provided. Since Mrs P was unhappy with One Calls response, she brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator noted One Call hadnt advised Mrs P on cover but needed to provide 
information about cover that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an 
informed choice about the cover she was buying. The policy documents said One Call 
werent providing LEI. Thered been access to the policy wording at the point of sale. 
Although that wasnt specifically drawn to Mrs Ps attention, that didnt affect the outcome 
of her complaint. Mrs P hadnt lost out since she hadnt paid for the legal cover with One 
Call. And she had LEI through her home insurance, which she could access to pursue 
her personal injury claim. Mrs P hadnt realised that for a few months, but One Call 
werent to blame for the stress shed suffered because of that.
Mrs P wasnt happy with our investigators view, so her complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mrs P was injured in the accident that led to her claim. I can understand it 
was a difficult and stressful time. And I note her strength of feeling about her complaint. 
But, for reasons Ill explain, I dont uphold her complaint.
Im aware Mrs P is unhappy with how her claim was handled and that she wasnt offered 
a hire car. But Im only considering here the sale of the policy by the broker, One Call 
Insurance Services Limited. Mrs Ps concerns about the claim itself would need to be 
answered by other firms.
One Call didnt advise Mrs P on the insurance she should buy. But they were required to 
provide her with appropriate information about the policy in good time and in a 
comprehensible form so she could make an informed decision about whether it would 
meet her needs. And One Call had to draw Mrs Ps attention to any key limitations of the 
policy.
Mrs P says the information on the comparison website about the cover the policy would 
provide was misleading. I can understand why Mrs P thought shed get LEI if she bought 
her insurance through One Call. Shed selected motor legal protection as a preferred 
option. And the explanation of what that included said, amongst other things, thered be 
cover of up to £50,000 to claim compensation for personal injury in a non-fault accident 
where there was a greater than 50% chance of success. That information is broadly 
consistent with the sort of cover a LEI policy would provide.
But, as part of their sales process, One Call provided clear links to, amongst other things, 
an Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and policy wording for the Basic Legal 
Cover One Call were offering. If shed followed the links and read the documents, she 
would have seen the limits on the legal cover the policy would provide before going ahead 
and buying it.
The IPID said What is this type of insurance? This is cover provided by [the insurer] and 
is not a legal expenses policywhere the negligence of a third party was the sole or 
contributing factor towards your injury or loss, you will have access to our specialist 
solicitors who are ready and waiting to advise you about your legal rights - and went on to 
summarise the cover.
The policy wording booklet reflected the information in the IPID. It said, Legal Cover This 
cover is underwritten by [the insurer] and is not a legal expenses policy; the policyholder 
would have access to solicitors to advise on their legal rights; if the policyholder was 
referred to the solicitors, they would talk about the case, give initial advice and, if they 
thought there were reasonable prospects of success, possibly offer to act in pursuing the 
third party and tell the policyholder then about their terms and conditions.
I think the documents set out clearly that the legal cover One Call were offering was not 
a legal expenses policy.
Mrs Ps said it was important for her to have LEI in place. And since One Call werent 
advising her on the cover, it was up to her to check she was getting the cover she wanted. 
In her circumstances, its reasonable to think she would have accessed the documents and 
checked the extent of cover before buying the insurance. If she had, I think she ought 
reasonably to have appreciated the cover was, in essence, limited to a legal help line and 
wouldnt cover the legal costs of pursuing a claim.
Once Mrs P had bought the policy at the beginning of July 2022, One Call wrote to 
her making clear the limits of the legal cover shed bought. The covering letter 
attached a statement of demands and needs, which said shed have access to 
solicitors who could advise on her legal rights, and referred her to the policy wording 
to check the cover. And they made the individual policy documents available to Mrs P 
through their on-line portal. So, she had a further chance to review them before the 
policy started later that month. And she had the option to amend or cancel the policy 
then if she was unhappy with the legal cover, even though she may have incurred an 
administration fee in doing so.Overall, I think One Call did enough in the circumstances to draw to Mrs Ps attention the 
limitations of the legal cover they were offering. But even if Im wrong about that, I dont 
think it would be fair to require them to pay compensation.
Fortunately, Mrs P had access to LEI through her home insurance. If shed known the 
limitations of the legal cover provided under the motor policy when she bought it, I think its 
more likely than not she would have checked her home insurance at the time. And its 
unlikely she would then have required LEI as part of her motor insurance. I appreciate she 
only realised later she had LEI through her home insurance and found it stressful during 
that time to think she wouldnt be able to pursue her claim. But I cant reasonably say One 
Call were responsible for that. Mrs P hadnt paid a premium for the legal cover she got 
through One Call. So, she didnt miss out financially there. And since she had LEI under 
the home policy, she didnt miss out either in getting support to make her legal claim.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs P will be disappointed, I dont uphold her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman