DRN-1568171
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Miss R says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays), who were trading at the time as 
Barclaycard, mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I explain why below. 
I think Barclays made it clear that Miss R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this, many years later. I say 
this because Ive been given a copy of the application form Miss R completed at the time. I 
can see that to get the PPI Miss R had to tick a box for it. The box is ticked and Miss R has 
signed the form which suggests her agreement to its contents. If Miss R hadnt wanted the 
PPI she could have left the box unticked, as she did for the Barclaycard Card Protection. 
So, it seems most likely that Miss R wanted this sort of cover and would have known she 
had a choice about taking the PPI out or not. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss R so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Miss R got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But she chose to take 
out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it seems she was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Ive considered 
that Miss R told us whilst she was entitled to good sick pay initially, it dropped significantly 
after six months. And Miss R told us she had no other means to rely on. This policy could 
have paid out for up to 12 months if Miss R was too ill to work, or if Miss R lost her job. So I 
think the policy would have been useful to her if something went wrong. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost would have put Miss R off taking 
out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so I do not 
uphold Miss Rs complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman