DRN-1585570
The complaint
Mr Gs mother, Mrs G, complains on her sons behalf that the Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) 
allowed her son to open a bank account with them and a short while later obtain an 
overdraft, which was increased the following day, without carrying out sufficient checks as to 
whether he was able to afford it. She feels BOS have been irresponsible in their lending.
What happened
Our investigator has set out the background to this complaint in their 'view', which covers the 
relevant history. In these circumstances I will not therefore repeat it but provide a short 
summary. The relevant chronology is thus; Mr G opened a Classic bank account online on 
the 6 November 2018. On the 23 November he applied for and was granted a £500 
overdraft. That was increased to £700 the following day. Both applications were made 
online.
Mr G was experiencing financial difficulties as a result of his gambling, and Mrs G assisted 
him by paying off his debt to BOS on the 1 May 2019. The account was then closed. Upon 
receipt of Mr Gs complaint, BOS denied they had been irresponsible, but offered to refund 
the bank charges totalling £100.50. Mrs G didnt accept that and asked this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and 
having done so, came to the conclusion that BOS hadnt done anything wrong. 
As Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators view she asked for the complaint to be passed 
to an Ombudsman for a final decision and in due course it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I feel I should clarify that any overall concerns about business process would 
need to be raised with The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They take a principles-based 
approach to conduct regulation, letting businesses choose how they incorporate those 
principles into the way they deal with customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has 
given this service under the Dispute Rules in the FCA Handbook. Our service doesnt have 
the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct that they change their 
policy or procedures, or indeed punish them. We only look at what happened in the 
circumstances of an individual complaint and check that BOS followed its rules and 
procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers. 
On his application form to open the account, Mr G declared that he had a monthly income of 
£1,300, mortgage/rent of £340 pcm and outgoings of £340 pcm. There were no other 
financial commitments declared. Mr G did however declare savings of £12,500. When 
making his application for the overdrafts the application reveals the same data, save that 
his savings are not displayed. I do not know whether that is because the screen shot I have, 
has omitted it, or the system hasnt reproduced it. Nevertheless, I take note that the 
declaration as to savings was made only 17 days earlier.Both applications for the overdrafts were credit checked with Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs), as evidenced by the credit scoring data BOS has produced. Businesses arent 
required to cross check a customers declared income, or obtain proof of income when 
agreeing unsecured borrowing, and they are entitled to rely on their customers to provide 
accurate information about their income and expenditure. There is no evidence to shows that 
BOS knew of Mr Gs gambling problem, or that he told them he was in financial difficulty. 
And neither came to light as part of their checks. So I dont think its reasonable to expect 
them to have known of this information at the time of his applications. 
What the Lending Code requires, is that a business assesses whether a borrower will be 
able to repay their borrowing in a sustainable manner, by considering information from 
CRAs, including existing financial commitments, where provided, as well as that listed below, 
but theres no set check list which a business is required to adhere to.
The type and amount of credit being sought.
How the customer has handled their finances in the past;
Any internal credit scoring techniques;
The customers declared income;
Why the customer wants to borrow the money and for how long; and
Any security provided
 
BOS say their decision to offer the overdrafts to Mr G credit was based on information 
supplied by him, data from the credit reference agencies and their own risk strategies. They 
say they completed various checks including affordability and indebtedness checks before 
approving his applications. I'm satisfied from the evidence I have seen that BOS acted 
responsibly in carrying out their checks for this modest overdraft.
Mrs G has raised the point that there was no evidence of any income going into Mr Gs 
account prior to the granting of and the increasing of his overdraft. But I dont think that 
matters here, because these were online applications for modest overdraft levels and based 
on Mr Gs declared income. And the increases were granted prior to receipt of his salary and 
based on the expectation it would be received. So, I think that it was reasonable for BOS to 
be able to rely on the information Mr G was providing. So, although both Mrs G and Mr G will 
probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say BOS has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland 
plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman