DRN-3986919
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about the way that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) 
handled issues with her boiler under her home care policy.
What happened
Mrs L complained to British Gas about her boiler which it had installed in 2005. She said 
there had been issues with it since installation. Mrs L thought that British Gas should 
therefore have replaced her boiler. Mrs L also complained about the service provided by 
British Gas and said that the issue was affecting her health.
British Gas made an offer of settlement in response to Mrs Ls complaint. It offered a 
discount of 20% off a new boiler. Mrs L was unhappy with this offer and referred her 
complaint to this service. 
The services investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. She considered that the offer 
made by British Gas was fair and that every time there had been a fault, it had repaired the 
boiler or replaced the relevant part. She thought that even if faults re-occurred, this didnt 
mean that British Gas should have immediately replaced the boiler, and this wasnt the 
purpose of a home care policy. She didnt consider that British Gas had purposely waited for 
expiry of the replacement period to state that a new boiler might be needed. She concluded 
that the boiler was outside the 10-year timeframe for replacement as provided by the policy.
Mrs L remains unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and the matter has been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether British Gas applied the terms and conditions of 
its home care policy in a fair and reasonable manner and whether its offer of settlement was 
a fair and reasonable response to Mrs Ls complaint. On balance, I dont consider that British 
Gas acted unfairly or unreasonably in this case, and Ill explain why.
Mrs L considered that British Gas hadnt installed the right boiler from the start, as it 
shouldnt have needed repairs within the first six months. She said that British Gas 
engineers had been in and out of her house more than twice every year. Mrs L said that it 
didnt matter how many times British Gas took out parts and replaced them, the problem 
would still be there and that this was because the proper checks [were] not carried out 
before the boiler was installed. 
She said that the heating had to be on 25 degrees before it would warm up, and it would 
then get too hot and couldnt be turned down. Mrs L also said she had no reliable hot water. 
When attempting to get hot water, the system shut off the heating. She said that sometimes 
she would have to run the shower and the sink water together so that she could finish 
showering as the water would go cold during use. Mrs L was unhappy that British Gas had 
refused to replace the boiler and she thought it had spent all these years changing the same 
bits over and over again until the warranty ran [out]. 
Mrs L said that the issue was affecting her own and her daughters health. The family 
needed hot water and Mrs L said she couldnt continue to boil kettles and carry water for 
washing.  Shed had to explain the issue to British Gas many times. Over the years, British 
Gas had blamed water pressure and the utility company. She said that a utility company 
engineer checked everything and gave pictures and videos to prove that it was the boiler 
that was the problem all along.  Mrs L said that once British Gas looked at this evidence, it 
then finally admitted that the boiler was at fault. Mrs L said that the latest British Gas 
engineer to visit her home had said that the proper checks couldnt have been made on 
installation, and that this particular type of boiler shouldnt have been installed.
 
Mrs L has said that she would like the boiler to be replaced. She was willing to pay a 
contribution towards it however shed taken out the British Gas home care service to avoid 
all of this; but it has turned out not to be the peace of mind that I had hoped. She said that 
after admitting the boiler was faulty, British Gas had still wanted to charge Mrs L to fix its 
own mistake. She said that if it had been a recent problem, she wouldnt have minded the 
20% discount offered, however bearing in mind that the problems started soon after the 
boiler was installed, she didnt think the offer was reasonable. She said that shed always 
paid her yearly fee on time, even when it was hard for her to do so due to the yearly price 
increase. She felt that British Gas had no loyalty to its customers.
As to service issues, Mrs L said that shed called British Gas several times within the first 
few months but that it refused to listen. She also said that one of its engineers sold her a 
particular connection, but when they came to fit it, they found it didnt work with her boiler.
British Gas accepted that Mrs L had been unhappy with her boiler since it was installed in 
2005 and that she didnt think it had ever worked properly. It said that having investigated 
the matter, the faults had varied in nature, but it had been able to complete repairs and 
leave the boiler fully operational. However, it considered that the boiler had got to the stage 
where it was difficult to obtain parts and, as the boiler was now 18 years old, it 
recommended replacement. It said it had always been able to repair the boiler and a 
replacement had not been needed before now. It said that it had nevertheless offered Mrs L 
a 20% discount on a new boiler as a goodwill gesture. It considered that this was a fair and 
reasonable offer in all the circumstances.
British Gas provided a copy of its records in relation to Mrs Ls contact from 2015 onwards. 
The records indicate that its engineers carried out several repairs and replaced parts of the 
boiler from this date, however unfortunately it wasnt able to produce records prior to this. 
British Gas acknowledged that despite replacement of various boiler parts over recent years, 
the same issues were still happening. In January 2023, it said we will of course continue to 
make repairs under your policy, while we are still able to obtain parts, but the best solution 
would be to replace the system. It also acknowledged that it had considered for some time 
that the main problem had been due to water pressure problems, but that the utility company 
had tested the mains and the pressure was fine. 
Finally, British Gas said that under the policy, a replacement boiler would only be supplied if 
we are unable to make repairs providing the boiler is less that 10 years old, was installed by 
us, and the Home Care policy has been continuous. As the boiler was installed in 2005, it 
didnt think that it needed to provide a replacement boiler. As a goodwill gesture it had 
offered a 20% contribution to the cost of a replacement boiler. It didnt consider that further 
compensation was due as it continued to assist and repair the boiler. It concluded that; Im 
sure that our engineers have tried their best to repair the boiler over the years.My starting point for this final decision is the wording of the relevant home care policy. This 
provides cover for all relevant repairs within the Boilers and Controls section of the policy. It 
says that a replacement will be provided if it cant repair the boiler and; - Its less than seven 
years old; or its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously 
covered by us under either a warranty or HomeCare product
Ive noted from the British Gas written records that Mrs L had numerous visits from British 
Gas engineers from 2015 onwards relating to various appliances, including her boiler. I also 
note that the repairs and replacement parts related to a range of issues. No documentary 
evidence has been provided by either party to clarify the extent of issues between 2005 and 
2015. However, Ive no reason to doubt what Mrs L says and that shed experienced issues 
with the boiler since it was installed by British Gas in 2005. I appreciate that this will have 
caused Mrs L frustration and inconvenience at times. Having said this, Im satisfied that 
British Gas continued to fulfil its repair obligations under the home care policy during this 
period. There is no record of Mrs L requesting a new boiler between 2005 and 2015.
I appreciate that Mrs L felt that due to the number of repairs and replacements of parts that 
the boiler should have been replaced many years ago. I agree with the investigator however 
that, despite Mrs Ls understandable frustration, the first port of call under the policy would 
be to repair the boiler where possible in the first instance. Whilst there had clearly been 
significant issues with the boiler, the evidence suggests that repairs were carried out 
successfully for some years and that there had been no reason to consider that a 
replacement was required until recently. For example, in March 2015 the records indicate 
that the customer said that the boiler was working ok. Again, the records indicate in June 
2019 that the engineer checked with customer and everything is fine. In July 2021 however, 
it was clear from the records that Mrs L felt there had been ongoing issue for years.
The records dont confirm that the last engineer to visit Mrs Ls property said that the proper 
checks couldnt have been made at installation and that this particular type of boiler wasnt 
the right one. Again however, Ive no reason to doubt Mrs Ls recollection of the 
conversation. Unfortunately for Mrs L however, this doesnt alter the fact that, whilst there 
had been numerous repairs over the years, these repairs had been successful until fairly 
recently and that this was in line with what was to be expected under the policy.
I note that British Gas eventually accepted that water pressure wasnt an issue and that it 
was likely that the boiler needed to be replaced. I cant say that it would be unfair or 
unreasonable for British Gas to have then suggested that an 18-year-old boiler would require 
replacement. Nor do I consider that it was unfair or unreasonable for British Gas to have 
reached the conclusion that, following further parts being replaced in 2022, that the 
underlying problem hadnt been resolved. The question for me is whether British Gas should 
have reached this conclusion much earlier.  Im satisfied that it couldnt have been expected 
to have reached this conclusion by 2015. In other words, on the balance of probabilities, I 
conclude that repairs were feasible and indeed were successfully carried out during the first 
ten years of operation of the boiler and well beyond that timescale. I cant therefore say that 
British Gas applied the terms of the policy in an unfair or unreasonable manner in declining 
to replace the boiler.
 
I do however note that more recently, a significant number of attempts to resolve the issues 
appear to have been unsuccessful. I consider it reasonable to conclude that British Gas 
should have realised that water pressure was not the underlying issue some months earlier 
than it did. I also appreciate that Mrs L and her family have experienced significant 
inconvenience during those months, particularly bearing in mind their health issues. I note 
that Mrs L very understandably needs a reliable source of hot water and heating. Under the 
terms of the policy however, I cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable for British Gas to decline to provide a replacement boiler, rather than to provide on-going repairs and 
replacements as and when necessary. Neither can I say that it was unfair or unreasonable to 
then offer a discount of 20% to replace the boiler in view of the inconvenience caused.
I know that this decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs L. In all the circumstances 
however, I cant say that British Gas has acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in 
response to her complaint. As above, Ive concluded that British Gas should have realised 
that water pressure was not the underlying issue some months earlier than it did. Im 
satisfied however that British Gas has now acted in a fair and reasonable manner by offering 
a 20% discount on a new boiler to recognise the difficulties Mrs L has encountered.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint and I dont require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to do any more in response to her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman