DRN-2549667
The complaint
 Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc has been charging him for a safe deposit box which is 
held by Lloyds Bank and for which he is also paying a fee to Lloyds. He also complains that 
TSB took too long to answer his correspondence about this matter.
What happened
 Mr B has a safe deposit box which is held by Lloyds. He says he has been paying fees for 
this box to both Lloyds and to TSB. He wants a refund of the fees he has paid to TSB.
TSB says it has not charged Mr B any fees. The payment to which he refers is in fact a 
standing order under which £20 is paid each year to a Lloyds account. It says that Lloyds 
has verified this. However, TSB accepted that it took too long to respond to Mr B and to give 
him a meaningful answer.
Being dissatisfied with TSBs response, Mr B brought this complaint to our Service. Our 
investigator agreed that Mr B had received poor service, in that he had had to wait too long 
for a substantive reply from TSB. He recommended that TSB pay Mr B £100 for the delay, 
and TSB accepted that recommendation. Mr B said that was not enough, since he had spent 
more than 100 hours dealing with this matter.
The investigator did not uphold the original complaint about the payments. He said TSB had 
provided enough evidence to prove that these payments were not fees charged by TSB, but 
were payments made to a Lloyds account under a standing order set up in 2004. He said 
that he did not have jurisdiction to consider any payments made longer ago than six years 
before Mr B had first complained to TSB in June 2018, meaning that he did not have power 
to consider any payments made before June 2012. But the payments made since then had 
been made in accordance with the standing order, and had all been paid to Lloyds. TSB had 
not charged Mr B anything for the safe deposit box, so there was nothing for TSB to refund, 
and TSB had done nothing wrong. If Lloyds had charged Mr B twice for the same service, 
then that should be the subject of a separate complaint to Lloyds.
Mr B did not accept that decision. He insisted that TSB had been charging him. He said the 
money had not been going to a Lloyds account, but appeared to have been going to a TSB 
account, and provided the account number. Our investigator told him that was not an 
account number but merely a reference number (and pointed out that the number was not in 
the format that all account numbers have). Mr B did not accept that, and so this case has 
been referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  
I have seen enough evidence from TSB, in the form of screenshots and also emails it 
received from Lloyds, to be satisfied that the £20 Mr B has paid each year is a standing 
order made to a Lloyds account, and that the payments were received at that account. 
I have also seen the evidence which Mr B sent to our investigator on 18 January 2021, 
which includes a list of standing orders. The entry Mr B has highlighted is the same standing 
order, and it gives the sort code and account number of the account the payments were 
made to. It is a Lloyds account.
The ten-digit number which Mr B insists is a TSB account number is certainly a reference 
number, and it does not indicate that the money was not paid to the correct Lloyds account. 
Lloyds has confirmed that it received the money. There is no evidence to indicate that the 
standing order was not complied with by TSB, or that it was ever varied prior to being 
cancelled by Mr B in 2018.
I am not going to consider the circumstances in which the standing order was set up in 2004, 
or the reasons why. Everything which happened before June 2012 is out of my jurisdiction, 
for the reasons explained by the investigator, with which I agree. This complaint has been 
brought too late to consider anything which happened longer ago than that.
I am satisfied that TSB has done nothing wrong, other than to take too long to give Mr B a 
full answer to his complaint. I think £100 is fair compensation for that, and is in line with what 
this Service would typically award (particularly as the underlying complaint has no merit). 
I recognise that Mr B feels that he deserves more than that, because of how much time he 
has invested in pursuing this complaint. But I am afraid that I cannot agree that the time he 
has spend on this matter is proportionate. Mr B says he has spent 125 hours trying to get a 
refund of £300 (of which this Service only has jurisdiction to consider the last six payments, 
worth £120), when the answer to his question was in a document (dated 2013) which was in 
his possession all along. In any case, we do not compensate people for their time at an 
hourly rate, and I think £100 is fair compensation for the delay. (For future reference, if Mr B 
brings a complaint to a financial institution and does not receive an answer within eight 
weeks, he need not wait any longer to bring that complaint to our Service.)
I do not know if Lloyds has charged Mr B twice for the same service, and I have not 
considered that question. That is a matter for Mr Bs separate complaint against Lloyds. 
There is no reason for me to await the outcome of that complaint before resolving this one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order TSB Bank plc to pay Mr B £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman