DRN-4515641
The complaint
X complains about Santander UK Plc making a mistake with his international payment and 
the poor service they provided when recovering his funds.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 4 November 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator 
proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 20 November 2023. But unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
X complains about Santander UK Plc making a mistake with his international payment and 
the poor service they provided when recovering his funds.
What happened
X has held an account with Santander for long time.
On 10 November 2021, X visited his local Santander branch to transfer £4000 to his bank 
account with Bank A in country B.
X says he had previously made a successful transfer to Bank A in 2020, so he provided the 
same details. However, on this occasion a problem occurred with the transfer and his £4000 
went missing.
X asked Bank A to investigate and also made several visits to his Santander branch. Bank A 
informed X that his funds hadnt been received and said Santander needed to resolve the 
issue. X was distressed about his missing funds and feels Santander havent done anything 
to rectify the issue.
X feels Santander caused the issue by submitting an incorrect IBAN number. However,
Santander are confident that they didnt make a mistake. They explained that although the
IBAN number was incorrect, and completely different to the intended number, it was a valid
number. Also, there is insufficient evidence to suggest that the branch representative who
processed the payment randomly created a valid IBAN number for a (country B) bank
account.
Santander explained that they had traced Xs funds and, as it was in the international
system, they were still trying to get it back from the receiving bank. They apologised for the
delay and as a gesture of goodwill paid X £100.
X complained to our service. He believed Santander made a mistake and should
immediately put the funds back into his account. Also, he is dissatisfied with the service
Santander provided including asking him to liaise with Bank A. X also requests the refund of
fees, payment of interest, travel and compensation for the inconvenience and distress.
In April 2023, X said his account had been credited with £3967.45.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had treated X fairly and said it was more likely than
not that Santander had made the mistake. He recommended that Santander pay an
additional £50 for distress and inconvenience, £57.55 for financial loss together with lost
interest on the £4000 payment from when it was made until the date it was returned to Xs
account.
However, Santander disagree as they dont believe theyve made an error. So, this 
complaint has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have a different view to the investigator. Im still upholding this complaint, 
but I require Santander to increase the amount of compensation and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I am pleased to see that Xs funds have been retrieved albeit the full £4000 has not 
yet been credited to his account.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I must reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have 
happened in light of the available information.
Santander have provided a copy of their procedure for an IBAN transaction. This states the 
customer is to provide payment information, the representative has to confirm all the details 
back to the customer and then, after inputting the payment details, the customer confirms 
that they are correct via the CHIP and PIN device.
Although Santander say the representative could only have got the IBAN number from X and
have provided evidence to show that the customer verified the payment details input as
being correct via the CHIP and PIN device, on balance of probabilities, I also think it is more
likely than not that the mistake here was due to the Santander representative.
I say this because the IBAN number is completely different to Xs IBAN number and happens 
to be a valid number. There is no information to indicate X has another account number in 
country B and if he made a mistake there is likely to have been some similar digits used and 
I think it would more likely than not have been an invalid number.
I recognise that Santanders representative didnt serve another customer transferring funds
to country B that day, however I think it is more likely than not that the Santander
representative, whose role involves processing international payments, had access to a valid
number and mistakenly entered this.
Also, it isnt possible to observe the interaction and how the procedure was or wasnt
followed and X describes how, whilst serving him, the representative was diverted and
perhaps distracted with a colleague.
Furthermore, X had previously used this same method to successfully credit his account with
Bank A and when he says he had his Bank A account information including IBAN number
with him, I think this is likely to have been the case.Santander offer another possibility, that X has another country B bank account, however I
cant see any evidence of this and from reviewing the file I think this is unlikely.
I also considered the inconvenience and distress this matter caused X and the service he
experienced when trying to understand what had happened and how and when he would get
his funds back.
X provided comprehensive and contemporaneous notes which showed that he spent
considerable time worrying about his missing funds, making enquiries including with Bank A
and chasing Santander. These notes also indicate that he visited a Santander branch a
number of times and Santander shouldve provided better communication and shown more
empathy to a distressed and vulnerable customer.
I say this because Santander were aware that X had been worried about his funds and had
waited months for a refund, yet X says that when they credited his account with £3967.45
they didnt provide an explanation.
Also, X is elderly and has vulnerability characteristics. He consistently describes how he was
worried about his missing funds, and this includes a concern about being scammed. He
shows evidence of a lengthy wait to speak to the manager about this and recalls being
offended and upset when he said it told it is your fault as you accepted the receipt you
scammed yourself. Also, he describes how this incident caused considerable stress and
affected his blood pressure. In addition, he says the impact of this still affects him.
Although I can understand why Santander have struggled to see they made a mistake here,
I think they should have credited him with the missing £4000 at a much earlier stage. I say
this for the following reasons:
As stated earlier I think it is improbable that X would have entered an incorrect but
valid number
There isnt any evidence that X has another country B bank account
I found X to be a distressed and vulnerable customer
So, in summary, Im persuaded on balance of probabilities that its more likely than not that
Santander made a mistake here, causing X inconvenience, distress for a number of months
and a loss of confidence. Also, his distress has been exacerbated by a lack of
communication and empathy.
So, considering all the above, including that there was an opportunity for X to spot the 
mistake before he left the branch, I require Santander to:
Refund £33.55
Refund the £25 transfer fee
Pay interest on the £4000 from the date it left his account to the date it was returned
Pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused less any amounts 
already paid
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint. I 
require Santander UK Plc to pay X with the following:
Refund £33.55
Refund the £25 transfer fee
Pay interest on the £4000 from the date it left his account to the date it was returnedPay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused less any amounts
already paid
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 20 November  
2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out 
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I gave both X and Santander the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider, before I moved to a final 
decision. 
Both parties responded.
Santander said, While we do not agree that an error has been made by our colleague, to 
draw the matter to a close for the customer we will accept the provisional ombudsman 
decision.
X didnt agree with the provisional decision. X still considers the compensation amount to be 
inadequate and raised a number of points including the following:
X questions whether he has been the victim of a fraud. This is because the IBAN 
number was legitimate, and he understands the casher no longer works for 
Santander.
X pointed out the cashier in question had made other significant errors and had her 
efforts corrected and taken over by a colleague.
X pointed out his age and physical impairments and questioned how Santander treat 
elderly and vulnerable customers
X said he has been sending transfers to Bank A in Country B since 1988 so I think 
you may assume I did NOT make an error and am on top of this process. Also, he 
just conducted a routine transfer and obviously it never entered my mind that the 
cashier wasnt doing her job correctly.
X said his funds were only returned after he rang Santanders complaints department 
I asked Santander questions about some of Xs above points and considered Xs points 
alongside file submissions and the following responses that I received: 
We have no concerns with relation to internal fraud.
The credit of funds was as a result of us recalling the payment from the beneficiary 
bank. This was part of our process, when the customer highlighted that the payment 
hadnt reached the destination.
In the past 12 months, the customer has only made one other payment 
internationally. I would like to clarify that we do not store the payment information for 
these payment types and each time the customer makes a new payment the digits 
are entered each time.
As Conformation of Payee is not available for international payments, we are reliant 
on information provided by swift and we utilised this service to recover the customers 
funds. We have not been provided the information and as the data is not owned by us, we are unable to confirm the owner of the account.
I should explain that as we arent the financial services regulator or a court, our service 
doesnt have any power to interrogate records and systems or cross examine parties. 
Instead, we have to make impartial and objective decisions based on the information 
provided by both parties. 
So, based on the available information, I cant see any evidence that a fraud occurred.
Regarding Xs age and physical impairments, Im satisfied X had characteristics of 
vulnerability according to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) guidance on this topic. 
And, as X had confirmed that the transaction details were correct, this was a factor in 
upholding the complaint and increasing the award. 
Having considered everything again, including Xs vulnerability and the latest submissions 
from both parties, although I fully understand the upset, worry, distress and inconvenience X 
experienced here, Im not persuaded to further increase the award.
Assessing compensation isnt an exact science and our approach when making awards for 
non-financial loss is detailed on our website and tends to be modest. For the reasons 
mentioned in my provisional decision, I remain persuaded that its more likely than not that 
Santander made a mistake here. Also, Xs vulnerability wasnt recognised, and Santander 
were then lacking in communication and empathy. However, after further consideration, I 
think the provisional decision compensation amount is fair and reasonable.
So, having considered everything again, Im still upholding this complaint and I require 
Santander UK Plc to:
Provide X with a refund of £33.55
Provide X with a refund of the £25 transfer fee
Pay X lost interest on the £4000 from the date it left his account to the date it was 
returned
Pay X £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused less any 
amounts already paid
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and I require Santander UK Plc to:
Provide X with a refund of £33.55
Provide X with a refund of the £25 transfer fee
Pay X lost interest on the £4000 from the date it left his account to the date it was 
returned
Pay X £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused less any 
amounts already paid
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman