DRN-3029875
The complaint
Mr W complains Clydesdale Bank Plcs (trading as Virgin Money) approach to strong 
customer authentication means that his internet account is no longer truly an internet 
account. He says that means there are times when he wont be able to use his account 
when he should be able to.
What happened
Mr W has an online savings account with Virgin Money. He also has a current account with 
another bank who allow him to authenticate using a token.
In June 2019 Virgin Money emailed Mr W to let him know it was going to be making changes 
to the way it authenticated its customers. Virgin Money asked Mr W for his mobile number 
explaining that it would be sending him a one-time passcode each time he wanted to log in. 
Virgin Money said he wouldnt be able to log in if he didnt receive this text. Mr W wrote back 
to Virgin Money saying that he did not have, nor want, a mobile phone so he couldnt provide 
them with a number. In response to Mr Ws letter, Virgin Money told Mr W that hed only 
need to authenticate when completing a transaction, and not when logging on. Virgin Money 
has since accepted that this information wasnt correct. The email Virgin Money sent in June 
2019 said that it could send a one-time passcode to a landline for customers who didnt own 
a mobile or had poor signal. In other words, Virgin Money offered two options at the time  
mobile or landline.
In September 2019 Virgin Money emailed Mr W to let him know that it was going to be 
delaying its changes as the FCA had given firms an extension for the implementation of 
strong customer authentication.
In February 2020 Virgin Money emailed Mr W to let him know its changes to the way it 
authenticated customers would go ahead in March 2020.
In June 2020 Mr W withdrew all of the money in his account and transferred it to the current 
account he has with another bank  the one that allows him to authenticate using a token.
In April 2021 Mr W wrote to Virgin Money to say that hed tried to log into his account and its 
website had said that a code had been sent to his mobile phone when that wasnt the case. 
He said that he had in fact been able to log in as a one-time passcode had been sent to his 
landline. But he wasnt happy that the website had a misleading message, or that when hed 
previously raised the issue with Virgin Money hed been told that he would only need to 
authenticate when completing a transaction. He also complained that mobile phones and 
landlines werent viable means of logging on in many scenarios  in the case of a landline, in 
particular, when the customer in question is away from home.
Virgin Money investigated Mr Ws complaint and apologised that hed been given incorrect 
information about when hed need to authenticate. Virgin Money said he would need to do so 
when he logged on and when he was completing a transaction, not as it had said just when 
completing a transaction. Virgin Money said that he would need a mobile phone in order to 
authenticate, or a code could be sent to his landline or a trusted third party. Virgin Money 
said that it was pleased to see Mr W had been able to log in twice since March 2020. Virgin 
Money offered Mr W £50 in compensation for the incorrect information it had given.
Virgin Money acknowledged that Mr W wouldnt be able to use his landline to authenticate if 
he was travelling. In the circumstances, Virgin Money offered Mr W a voucher to buy a 
mobile phone in the event he changed his mind about owning one. Virgin Money also said 
that as a result of the merger it was going through it could offer him an alternative savings 
account which hed be able to access using a security token  a Yorkshire Bank product. 
Virgin Money said that it could also help Mr W close his account if thats how we wished to 
proceed. Mr W was unhappy with Virgin Moneys response and so complained to us. He 
said that hed opened an internet based account with Virgin Money because he needs to 
be able to use it all over the world, particularly when he travels. And that having to rely on his 
landline or a mobile phone meant his account was no longer an internet based account. He 
also said that a mobile phone simply wouldnt work because it would need to be updated 
regularly and hed need to enter into roaming agreements amongst other things.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that 
they thought Virgin Money had provided viable alternatives to a mobile phone. Our 
investigator said that Mr Ws account was also a savings account, and not an account out of 
which he could make card payments, set up standing orders, direct debits or bill payments. 
In the circumstances, they didnt think the Payment Service Regulations applied or guidance 
that the FCA had published on strong customer authentication. They also took into account 
the fact that Mr W rarely accessed his account. Mr W disagreed with our investigators 
findings, saying that unless and until Virgin Money provided an alternative that worked when 
its customers had internet access only then there would be times when he wouldnt be able 
to access his account online. For example, when travelling abroad. He didnt think how hed 
used the account in the past was relevant either. So, I was asked to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money told Mr W in June 2019 that it was making changes to its online banking and 
how its customers log into and manage their accounts. Virgin Money told Mr W that these 
changes were as a result of new regulations that were going to come into effect in 
September 2019 that affected the whole banking sector.
Virgin Money is right that new regulations came into effect in September 2019  the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Virgin Money is also right that these 
regulations affected the whole banking sector. The regulations required payment service 
providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those 
circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of 
payment fraud or other abuses.The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as PSD2  define strong customer authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, 
and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, 
with the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. The way Virgin Money has gone about those checks  and the alternative 
ways of authenticating it offers (none of which Mr W says allow him to continue to use his 
account as an internet account  is at the heart of this complaint.
Virgin Money approach to implementing strong customer authentication  in 2019
Virgin Money explained to Mr W in June 2019 that it would be making changes to its online 
banking and how its customers log into and manage their accounts. Virgin Money told Mr W 
that these changes were as a result of new regulations that were going to come into effect in 
September 2019 that affected the whole banking sector. Virgin Money told Mr W that hed 
need to supply a mobile number to which it would send a one-time passcode each time he 
wanted to log on or manage his account. Alternatively, it could send a one-time passcode to 
a landline. Virgin Money planned to use these one-time passcodes to check the person 
logging on or using the account possessed a device (a mobile phone or a landline) that 
they knew their customer possessed. In other words, to prove possession.
Virgin Moneys approach has developed since 2019  thats true of many businesses  and 
Ive said more about this later on.Why did Mr W complain?
Mr W has told us that he has a number of internet accounts. Hes also told us that he 
opened these accounts because its important to him that hes able to manage his finances 
over the internet  that, according to Mr W, is what an internet account should by 
definition allow you to do. Hes given us lots of reasons why people generally, including 
himself, like to open internet accounts. For example, the convenience of being able to 
manage your finances online compared to the inconvenience of having to call your bank or 
visit a branch (particularly during Covid and in light too of the number of branches that have 
closed over the past few years and continue to close).
Mr W has also told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone, and hes explained why even if 
he did it wouldnt help him manage his finances. He makes a lot of good points. Hes also 
told us that he owns a computer  this is the device he uses when hes at home  and that 
the computer he owns at the moment is a laptop. And finally, hes told us why in the past 
hes needed to manage his finances whilst away from home, and why this will be particularly 
important to him in the years to come.
Its clear from what Mr W has told us that his main complaint about Virgin Moneys approach 
to strong customer authentication is that it simply doesnt allow him to manage his finances 
when hes travelling. Hes able to access his online banking when hes at home, as he has a 
landline to which codes can be sent, but as he rightly points out this only works when hes at 
home and not whenever he has access to the internet. In the circumstances, I can see why 
Mr W says that his internet account is no longer operating like an internet account 
because of the way Virgin Money has approached strong customer authentication.
Mr W isnt complaining about Virgin Moneys decision to introduce strong customer 
authentication, which is an important measure designed to combat fraud, and one that PSPs 
are obliged to implement. And hes not complaining about having to complete additional 
checks either. Hes agrees that strong customer authentication is an important measure 
designed to combat fraud. Im satisfied that the only reason why Mr W complained was 
because he didnt feel Virgin Money had offered a method of authenticating that would allow 
him to continue to operate his account as an internet account. He wouldnt have 
complained had Virgin Money, for example, offered him the option of authenticating using a 
card reader or a token.
Virgin Moneys approach to strong customer authentication - now
Virgin Moneys approach to strong customer authentication has developed since Mr W 
originally complained in June 2019. In April 2021, Virgin Money offered Mr W a voucher to 
buy a mobile phone or an alternative savings accounts which hed be able to access using a 
security token.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. The FCA said the paper provides guidance for a practical 
understanding of the requirements, our regulatory approach and how businesses will 
experience regulatory supervision. The FCA added that its guidance is intended to illustrate 
ways (but not the only ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant regulations and 
rules.In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without 
mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
Should Virgin Money have done more for Mr W when he originally complained?
Mr W has told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone. So Ive taken the papers the FCA has 
published on strong customer authentication and its thoughts  particularly in relation to 
people who do not possess a mobile  into account when deciding whether or not Virgin 
Money should have done more when Mr W originally complained and whether or not its 
actions were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In addition, Ive taken the Payment 
Services Regulations  in particular, Article 100  into account as well as FCA Principle 6  
that firms must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Theres 
an argument that the Payment Services Regulations and the guidance the FCA has 
published dont apply to this particular account of Mr Ws. Its a savings account. So, Ive 
taken that into account, although I note his account is described as a payment account in 
the terms and conditions that apply to it. Ive also taken into account the fact that Virgin 
Money has said it made changes to the way it went about authentication because of the 
Payment Services Regulations.
Having taken everything into account, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Virgin 
Money to implement strong customer authentication  its an important measure to help 
combat fraud  to the extent that it needed to. Im very confident Mr W doesnt think so 
either. Virgin Money appears to have accepted that it ought to offer its customers alternative 
ways of authenticating which dont rely on a mobile signal  in this case, I dont think its 
useful to decide whether or not that is something Virgin Money had to accept. Virgin Money 
offered only one alternative at the time, namely that it could send a one-time passcode to a 
landline. Virgin Money accepted at the time that this wouldnt work for Mr W if he was 
travelling.
I dont think Mr W can say that Virgin Money hasnt offered him a viable alternative for when 
hes at home because it offers authenticating using a landline  and Mr W has a landline at 
home which hes able to use. I accept that this isnt true internet banking as far as Mr W is 
concerned as it means he has to rely on his landline and cant just rely on the internet. But I 
dont think I can say its unfair or unreasonable that Mr W has to use his landline to authenticate if he wants to log onto his savings account or manage it at home. 
I accept that asking Mr W to use a landline to authenticate isnt an option that would work 
when hes not at home. But so does Virgin Money. So, I have to consider whether Virgin 
Money has given Mr W a viable alternative to use when hes not at home and, in particular, 
when hes travelling abroad. I also have to consider whether Virgin Money has to give Mr W 
a viable alternative in those circumstances. And, having done so, and having taken 
everything else into account, I have to decide whether whats happened here is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances or not. So thats what Im now going to do.
The FCA has said  and I think its fair and reasonable  that in its view firms should be 
giving their customers several different ways to authenticate themselves, and not just rely on 
mobile phones, so that authentication works for all groups of consumers. I can see why the 
FCA said this  as its paper makes clear, not everyone owns a mobile phone, nor is 
everyone able to use a mobile phone. So, its important that these groups arent overlooked 
otherwise they could find that theyre unable to access online banking or make online 
payments or manage their accounts remotely. And these arent the only groups potentially 
affected. Or the only scenarios when authentication can be problematic, depending on the 
solution adopted. Mr W, given his background, is perhaps more knowledgeable than many 
when it comes to potential pitfalls here and has explained in detail potential problems that 
consumers might have in the future  particularly when travelling abroad. I agree with Mr W 
that this might well be an issue that will cause problems in the future. But I also have to 
remember that I am looking at this individual complaint and have to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr W has a savings account with Virgin Money. Its an account which he can withdraw 
money from instantly, and can send money to another account by faster payments or 
CHAPS.
Mr W hasnt been able to give us any examples of when hes been unable to log onto his 
account or manage his savings account. Mr W has said to us that the way hes operated his 
accounts in the past isnt relevant  he says the only thing thats relevant is how he wants to 
operate his accounts. I agree with Mr W to a degree  its clear hes likely to travel abroad far 
more and for long periods of time in the years to come. So, what hes done in the past is 
likely to be less relevant. I do, however, think I can and should take into account the type of 
account he has, and how it can be used. In this case, as Ive said, he has a savings account 
that he can withdraw money from wherever he wants. And I also think I can and should take 
into account how hes used the account in the past and how hes likely to do so in the future.
In June 2020 Mr W withdrew over £50,000 from his savings account and paid it into the 
current account he has with another bank who allow him to authenticate using a token. More 
importantly, Virgin Money has offered to open up another savings account for him  a 
Yorkshire Bank product  which comes with a token. The fact that this account comes with a 
token means Mr W could log on and manage it wherever he was as long as he had access 
to the internet. In other words, its an account which is, to use his own words, truly an 
internet account. Mr W turned down Virgin Moneys offer. He told me that he thought the 
account offered lower interest and he was worried about reviews hed seen of poor customer 
service as well as what might happen in the future. Ive checked and the interest rates are 
the same for a balance of over £10,000 and I dont think the other factors are relevant to the 
question of whether or not Virgin Money has acted unfairly and unreasonably when it comes 
to offering alternative ways of authenticating. Mr W has said that this option isnt available to 
all Virgin Money customers, but I have to consider his complaint only. And in his particular 
case, I dont think Virgin Money has acted unfairly or unreasonably. So, it wouldnt be right to 
uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman