DRN-2663964
The complaint
Mr N has complained about the service he received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
under his HomeServe policy when his boiler broke down and needed to be replaced.
What happened
The background to Mr Ns complaint is well known to both parties and has been referred to 
by our investigator in his view, so I wont repeat it in detail here. Instead Ill just focus on 
those parts of it that I consider are significant to Mr Ns complaint.
On 5 March 2020, Mr N contacted Aviva to report a boiler fault. This fault left him without 
heating or hot water. An Aviva engineer attended the next day, 6 March, and identified that a 
new part was required, so he ordered this. On 7 March, Avivas parts department contacted 
Mr N to tell him that the part had been ordered and that it would be fitted on 11 March. Aviva 
supplied Mr N with temporary heaters on 9 March. 
On 11 March, no engineer turned up to fit the new part. Mr N phoned Aviva to find out why 
and was told that the part was unavailable as the parts team had been unable to source it 
and had deemed it to be obsolete. Mr Ns policy says this:
Obsolete parts: HomeServe uses reputable suppliers who stock the usual parts 
required to fix most boilers. However if, when attempting to fix your system we 
find that the relevant manufacturer's spare parts are not readily available after a 
search of all HomeServe's stockists or that parts may be available but will take 
longer than 28 days to source, HomeServe will not be able to complete your 
repair. Please refer to obsolete parts section for details of what HomeServe will 
do in these situations.
As a result, Mr Ns boiler, which Aviva has said was more than seven years old, was 
deemed beyond economical repair. In these circumstances, Mr Ns policy says this:
 If the boiler is deemed beyond economical repair and is 7 years or older, we 
will source, replace and install a new boiler but you will be required to pay the 
installation costs. We will provide for you, a quote for this work. The new boiler 
will provide the same heating and hot water requirements as your existing 
boiler and will match your existing type of boiler.(my emphasis underlined)
Aviva directed Mr N to its installations team and on 12 March he was contacted by them to 
discuss a replacement boiler. He was told hed have to pay the installation costs. On 14 
March he received a quote of £1,804.03 to cover the installation cost by Aviva. This quote 
was unacceptably high for Mr N and he decided to make his own arrangements for a 
replacement boiler. This cost him £1,475 for parts and labour. He sent the invoice for this to 
Aviva and requested that it reimburse him this sum.
Aviva originally misunderstood Mr Ns request and responded to say it wouldnt pay him 
anything. After Mr N had clarified why he was making the request for payment, Aviva 
responded with an offer to pay him £432 toward his new boiler. This sum was the cost of a 
new boiler to Aviva which was all Aviva was required to provide under the terms of Mr Ns 
policy, the installation cost being Mr Ns responsibility.
Mr N maintains that Aviva should pay him the full £1,475 that he paid for the supply and 
fitting of his new boiler. He also complains that his family were left without heating and hot 
water for over two weeks at a cold time of year. He further complains that on top of his 
substantial policy premium he was required to pay Aviva a £50 call out charge.
Aviva has paid Mr N £432 but has rejected his claim for full reimbursement of the cost of his 
new boiler. Aviva has also paid Mr N compensation of £130 for its accepted failure to keep 
him informed with regards to the non-availability of parts as a result of which Mr N and his 
family were left without hot water and heating for longer than they shouldve been. With 
regards to what Mr N referred to as a call out charge, it has explained that it charged Mr N 
£60, that being the excess payable under the terms of his policy. 
As Mr N wasnt satisfied with Avivas handling of his complaint, he brought it to this service. 
He maintains that he is severely out of pocket as Aviva has only paid him £432 towards the 
cost of his new boiler, and he considers that £130 is inadequate compensation for the 
distress caused.
Our investigators view was that Aviva had acted in line with the terms of Mr Ns HomeServe 
policy in paying him £432 towards his new boiler. He also considered that the £130 
compensation Aviva had paid him was reasonable for the six days between 6 March and 12 
March 2020 when he was without heating and hot water due to delays caused by Aviva.
Mr N doesnt agree with our investigators view so hes asked that his complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ns complain and Ill explain why not.
Ive considered the relevant parts of Avivas HomeServe policy and Ive quoted these above. 
I think from these its clear that where a part can no longer be obtained, and a boiler that is 
seven years or more old is deemed beyond economic repair, Aviva will provide a new 
comparable boiler but the customer has to pay the cost of installation.
Aviva has said that the boiler itself would cost it £432. It quoted Mr N £1,804.03 for fitting it. If 
Mr N chose to source a new boiler himself, which he was quite entitled to do, I think its fair 
that Aviva makes a contribution to the cost comparable to the cost to it of providing, but not 
fitting, a new boiler. It has done this. I dont think its fair that Aviva should also be required to 
pay for the installation of Mr Ns new boiler. Its clear from the policy terms that the cost of 
installation is to be covered by the customer. So Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint in 
relation to this part of his complaint.
Mr N has also said that the compensation of £130 that Aviva has paid him is inadequate. I 
can appreciate that Mr N and his family were without heating and hot water from their boiler 
from 5 March until the new boiler was installed. However I have to consider the extent of 
Avivas responsibility for this. It hasnt been suggested that Aviva is responsible for Mr Ns boiler needing to be replaced. 
Once a decision had been made that the boiler needed to be replaced there would inevitably 
be a time gap between then and a new boiler being selected, ordered, and installed. That is 
a delay in the ordinary course of things for which, in my view, Aviva isnt responsible. Mr N 
decided to source his own boiler so Aviva cant be held responsible for any further delays.
However I do consider that between Avivas initial visit on 6 March and 12 March, when Mr N 
rejected Avivas quotation for the installation of a new boiler, there was a delay while Aviva 
attempted to source a replacement part which proved to be unavailable. Mr N had been led 
to believe that the part was available and on order when in fact it was unavailable. 
Aviva has accepted a failure to keep Mr N informed with regard to the non-availability of 
parts. As a result, Mr N and his family were left without hot water and central heating for 
longer than they shouldve been. But in my view this was limited to a period of no more than 
six days during which it was attempting to access a part. Aviva provided temporary heaters 
so the upset to Mr N was recognised and mitigated to some extent. For the remainder of the 
time during which Mr N and his family were without hot water and central heating, I dont 
consider Aviva was to blame. In my view, it was very fair of Aviva to accept a liability in these 
circumstances, and I consider that the compensation of £130 that it has paid is reasonable 
to cover this period of time. Im therefore not upholding Mr Ns complaint about the level of 
compensation paid.
Ive also looked at Mr Ns complaint about what he has referred to as a call out charge. Mr 
Ns policy is headed HomeServe Cover8 with excess. The terms of the policy state:
If you have a with excess policy, you will have to pay the amount detailed on 
your policy schedule each time you make a claim. We will then cover the cost of 
the rest of the claim up to the applicable claims limit. Excess payment(s) will be 
taken when you call to make a claim.
Mr Ns policy schedule states that his policy excess is £60, and Ive seen from Avivas 
records that Mr N paid this sum on 6 March 2020.
Having assessed Mr Ns complaints, and considered the terms of his policy, my conclusion 
is that Aviva hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably, so Im not going to require it to do 
anything more than its already done.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman