DRN-3456663
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible in lending to him. He also 
wasnt happy about the terms of the loan.
What happened
In August 2021 Loans 2 Go provided Mr H with a loan of £500. The loan was repayable over 
18 months with monthly repayments of £102.78. The APR was 770% and the total amount 
payable was £1,850.04.
In November 2021 Mr H complained about the total amount payable and the interest rate 
charged on the loan. He also didnt think the terms of the loan had been made clear to him 
before he took it out. He said Loans 2 Go hadnt carried out proper checks before lending to 
him.
Loans 2 Go looked into his complaint. It didnt think it had done anything wrong. However 
because of what Mr H had told it about his financial and personal circumstances, it offered to 
write off half the interest on the loan (£675.02) and put in place an affordable repayment 
plan.
Mr H referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think 
Loans 2 Go had treated Mr H unfairly.
 
As Mr H didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Hs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr H would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr H undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Loans 2 Go verified Mr Hs income using its online tools. As a result, it was satisfied that he 
received a minimum income of £1,173.68 a month. Following a review of the application, 
which included considering ONS data, Loans 2 Go calculated that Mr Hs outgoings were 
£940.80. This suggested that there would be more than enough disposable income to be 
able to afford the repayments Mr H was committed to making of £102.78.
Loans 2 Go also carried out a credit search. Borrowers who apply for loans of this type 
sometimes have an impaired credit history. In this case it revealed some defaults which were 
mostly from over three years previously. The value of the accounts in default was £696. 
There had been no recent defaults. 
This was Mr Hs first and only loan application with Loans 2 Go. I think that given the early 
stage in the relationship and the information it had, the checks carried out by Loans 2 Go 
were proportionate.Even if that were not the case, Mr H has provided bank statements from his current account 
from around the time he applied for this loan. Ive reviewed the bank statement for the period 
leading up to the date when Loans 2 Go provided the loan. Of course, different checks might 
show different things. But from what Id seen, even if Loans 2 Go had carried out more 
thorough checks at the time, such as requesting a bank statement, I couldnt fairly say that it 
ought reasonably to have concluded that it should decline Mr Hs application for the loan. In 
the month leading up to his application Mr Hs bank account remained in credit; there are no 
significant signs of financial distress such as frequent returned requests for payment, or high 
bank charges for an unarranged or arranged overdraft. Nor are there any indications of 
regular or frequent borrowing from multiple short-term lenders, which might have signalled 
severe financial difficulties. Overall, I hadnt seen enough evidence for me to fairly say that 
Loans 2 Go lent irresponsibly to Mr H. 
With regard to the rate of interest on the loan, this was high even for a high interest loan. 
However as it was a loan that was to be repaid over more than twelve months theres no cap 
on the rate of interest that can be charged. Ive noted that the loan documentation set out the 
rate of interest and the monthly repayments clearly and that Mr H was required to sign the 
documents before the loan could proceed.
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman