DRN-2953792
The complaint
Mrs R complains that a new car she took on a four-year hire purchase agreement from PSA 
Finance UK Limited was not of satisfactory quality. She wants to return the car and end the 
finance agreement.  
What happened
In June 2018 Mrs R entered into a hire purchase agreement with PSA for a new car. The car 
was priced at just over £44,500. Under the agreement Mrs R was to pay a deposit of £3,260, 
monthly payments of £615.90 and, if she wanted to keep the car, a final payment of just over 
£18,000. The car came with a three-year or 60,000 mile warranty.
Fairly soon after she took delivery of the car, Mrs R found some problems with it. She 
returned it to the dealership, which repaired a fluid leak and fuse board trim. Subsequently, 
Mrs R says shes had issues with the glove box, drivers seat cover, start/stop system and 
camera. More recently, there has been a safety recall in respect of the cars diesel 
particulate filter. The car was returned to the dealership on four occasions between June 
2018 and October 2019.
When Mrs R referred the matter to this service, she said that the issues with the car were 
with its lane assist system, the seat frame software and the diesel particulate filter.
As the finance provider, PSA said that it could not deal directly with these issues but it had 
been in contact with the dealership. It said that its understanding was that the dealership 
was willing to arrange repairs under warranty.
Our investigator considered Mrs Rs complaint and concluded that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality and that she should therefore be able to reject it. She should have her 
deposit returned with interest, and the finance agreement should be ended. PSA should also 
pay her £200 in recognition of the inconvenience to which she has been put.
PSA didnt accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. 
I accepted that the car had not been of satisfactory quality when it had been delivered to Mrs 
R. The car had been new and priced at nearly £45,000, so Mrs R could expect it to have no, 
or only very minor, issues. As the party with which Mrs R had a hire purchase agreement, 
PSA was responsible for the quality of the car. 
I noted however that the dealership had been able to fix the defects that had arisen and that 
it had done so under warranty and at no cost to Mrs R. It had also said that it was prepared 
to inspect the car and repair the further faults that Mrs R had identified. I thought it would be 
fair to give the dealership the opportunity to do that. I could then review the position, 
depending on the outcome of that. 
I did however note that Mrs R had been put to significant inconvenience as a result of the 
faults with the car. I recommended that PSA pay her £500 in recognition of that  rather 
more than the investigator had suggested. 
Mrs R did not accept my provisional decision. She thought she should be entitled to reject 
the car or that PSA should reimburse the deposit she had paid  as well as paying her £500 
for the inconvenience caused. She did however make arrangements for the car to be taken 
back to the dealership for further repairs. 
There was, it seems, some difficulty in booking the repairs. It was not possible for the 
dealership to complete them until two months after I issued my provisional decision. In part, 
this was because of illness and the need to order parts. The repairs were however 
completed successfully.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I indicated in my provisional decision, Mrs Rs car was not of satisfactory quality. It has 
needed repairs on more than one occasion and Mrs R was without it while those repairs 
were carried out.   
In my view it is fair that Mrs R receive some compensation for what has happened in this 
case. I do not believe it is enough that the car has been repaired at no cost to her. She has 
had to return it on several occasions. 
Nevertheless, I do not believe that it would be appropriate to allow Mrs R to reject the car. 
Repairs were carried out successfully, even though other, different, issues arose later. And 
Mrs R has had almost interrupted use of the car since about October 2019. 
I remain of the view that a payment of £500 is a fair way to resolve this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mrs Rs complaint, PSA Finance UK Limited should pay 
her £500.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman