DRN-4509509
The complaint
Miss S complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) acted irresponsibly in 
agreeing to lending she couldnt afford.
What happened
in July 2019 Miss S entered into a Hire Purchase agreement with SMF when she acquired a 
car. The cash price of the car was £4,890, Miss S made a deposit of £500. And after interest 
and charges were added the total amount repayable was ££7,845.60 over 60 months in 
monthly instalments of £122.26. Miss S said she struggled to meet her monthly repayments. 
She complained to SMF.
SMF said theyd carried out reasonable and proportionate checks that showed Miss S had 
sufficient disposable income to sustain her repayments. They said Miss S had struggled at 
times when she changed the frequency of her repayments. And when her employed hours 
had reduced during the pandemic. They said Miss S had settled her agreement in May 2023.  
Miss S wasnt happy with SMFs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said SMF should have done further checks to establish Miss S financial 
situation. And if they had they would have seen that the lending wasnt affordable for her. To 
put things right she asked SMF to:
Refund any payments, including the £500 deposit that Miss S had made in excess of 
£4,390, the capital amount. They should add 8% simple interest per year* from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. And
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss S credit file regarding the 
agreement
SMF didnt accept or reject our investigators outcome so Miss S complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint Ill explain why.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone 
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did SMF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that Miss S 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did SMF make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss S could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did SMF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time SMF lent to Miss S required them to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether she could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning SMF need to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Miss S. In other words, it wasnt enough for SMF to think only about the likelihood that they 
would get their money back without considering the impact of repayment on Miss S herself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders 
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific 
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
So, Ive considered whether SMF in lending to Miss S had been thorough in the checks they 
made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to lend to her. 
Miss S applied for the lending in July 2019. SMF said Miss S said she was co-habiting and 
living with her parents. They said they verified her income as £1,300 a month. All her credit 
commitments were up to date, and she didnt have any defaults of county court judgements 
(CCJ). They said they assessed Miss S as having day to day living costs of £675.24 and 
credit commitments of £414.98. They also added a discretionary amount of £25. So, they 
said Miss S had £184.78 available income which SMF said was sufficient to sustain her new 
loan amount of £122.26 each month. SMF said theyd made this assessment using Miss S 
application and a combination of data sourced from Credit Reference Agencies (CRA), 
Office of National Statistics (ONS), and industry publications.
I can see from the information provided by the CRA that Miss S had taken out an unsecured 
loan in April 2019 for £9,668 payable over 60 months.  And a couple of other recent short 
term unsecured loans. 
There are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for a 
given loan application. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
Miss S income was relatively low, and given shed recently taken out a loan for £9,668, the 
addition of a car loan further increased her indebtedness, added to which both loans were 
for a period of 60 months, so a longer term. So, I agree with our investigator that SMF should have done more to establish an accurate picture of Miss S financial situation, rather 
than their reliance only on statistical data given the level of indebetness. 
As previously mentioned, there isnt a set list of checks that a lender should do. And Im not 
saying SMF needed to ask for bank statements to verify Miss S income and expenditure. 
But for us its probably the most efficient way to work out whether the lending was affordable.
Miss S has provided her bank statements for the three months leading up to the agreement, 
April, May and June 2019. I can see form these that her income varied from £1,300.25, to 
£1,202.20 to £1,091.67, an average across the three months of  £1,198.04 less than the 
income used by SMF in their assessment. This alone, when using the day to day living costs 
and credit commitments used by SMF would reduce Miss S disposable income to £82, less 
than the new loan amount of £122.26.
I can also see from Miss S bank statements  that she was also making regular gambling 
transactions. Over the three months prior to lending Miss S spent on average around £1,000 
a month. 
So, having carefully considered everything, I think that SMF should have checked further 
into Miss S financial situation and if they had this would have alerted to them that Miss S 
wasnt able to sustainably make the payments to this agreement. So, I dont think the loan 
was sustainable and it was irresponsible of SMF to lend to her.
Putting things right
Where a business has done something wrong, our service usually aims to put the consumer 
back in the position they would have been in had the incident not occurred. But, in cases 
where a business has lent irresponsibly, this isnt entirely possible  as the lending provided 
cannot be undone.
Miss S has settled the agreement with SMF. So to put things right Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited should:
Refund any payments made by Miss S in excess of the cash price of £4,890, which 
includes the £500 deposit Miss S paid. Adding *8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. And 
Remove any adverse information from Miss S credit file about this agreement.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Specialist Motor Finance Limited to put things right as 
outlined above.
*HM Revenue & Customs require Specialist Motor Finance Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Specialist Motor Finance Limited must give Miss S a certificate showing how much 
tax theyve taken off if Miss S asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman