DRN-2412618
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car supplied on hire purchase by Oodle Financial Services Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr C took a car under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle. The car had 
first been registered in January 2012, so was nearly eight years old at the time, with a 
mileage of nearly 87,000; its cash price was just under £12,000.
Mr C has explained that he started experiencing problems with the car very soon after he 
collected it from the dealership. He asked a mechanic to look into the problems; they 
identified issues with the suspension and brakes.
Mr C contacted the dealership, which said he could try to get repairs done under warranty, 
but pointed out the warranty wouldnt cover wear and tear. Mr C complained to Oodle. Oodle 
said it couldnt help, however, as Mr C hadnt allowed the dealership or the warranty provider 
to inspect the car to establish the cause of the problem.
Mr C referred the matter to this service. After he had done so, Oodle arranged for a further 
inspection of the car and an engineers report was prepared. By this point  in June 2020  
the cars mileage had increased to more than 90,000. The engineer noted that issues had 
been reported with the suspension, brake parts and steering. He was unable to drive the car 
because of a defective tyre and low coolant level, but reported that both front brake disc 
covers were missing (one having fallen off through corrosion) and that the front suspension 
gaiters showed age-related cracks. His overall conclusion was that the work needed was 
consistent with the cars age and mileage; that is, they could be attributed to general wear 
and tear. He expressed the view too that the car had been in a condition consistent with its 
age and history when it had been delivered.
The investigator considered all the evidence and concluded that the car hadnt been of 
satisfactory quality at the time of delivery. She noted that satisfactory quality includes 
durability and that Mr C was entitled to expect the car to be free of minor faults, and for a 
reasonable length of time. She recommended that Oodle arrange for the suspension and 
brake discs to be repaired at no cost to Mr C and that Oodle pay a further £150 in 
recognition of the inconvenience to which Mr C had been put.
Mr C didnt think the investigators recommendation went far enough. He said he ought to be 
able to reject the car. Oodle wasnt prepared to agree to that, and so the case was passed to 
me to review.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different view from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. I noted in my provisional decision that the car had 
been inspected by an engineer, who had commented that the issues identified were   
directly related to progressive in-service general wear and tear and consistent with the 
vehicles age and reported mileage I explained that I took that to mean that the car was in 
the condition and of the quality that the engineer would expect of a car of that make and 
model at its age and mileage. 
I commented too on the cash price of £12,000 attributed to the car, noting that the same 
make and model would have cost around £60,000 when new. I thought that the investigator 
had attributed too much importance to the price and not enough to other factors.
Mr C didnt accept my provisional findings. He said that, having reviewed the cars MOT 
history, it was clear that the problems he had found with the car had existed long before he 
had acquired it. Those problems had not been properly dealt with and so the car was not of 
satisfactory quality. 
As far as the price was concerned, Mr C commented that £12,000 was consistent with prices 
of similar models at the time, so he was entitled to expect it to be fit for purpose and of 
satisfactory quality.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I havent changed my view from that set out in my provisional 
decision. As Mr C says, his contract with Oodle was to be read as including a term that the 
car was of satisfactory quality  meaning the quality a reasonable person would expect in all 
the circumstances. Those circumstances include matters such as the price, age and mileage 
of the car. 
There is of course no dispute that the car needed work carried out on it soon after Mr C took 
delivery of it. That doesnt, of itself, however mean that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality. That depends on what condition a reasonable person might expect the car to be in. 
In my view, the most reliable evidence of that is the evidence provided by the engineer who 
inspected it. He concluded that the work needed was indeed consistent with the cars age 
and mileage. 
Mr C has commented that the engineer was expressing an opinion, not reporting facts, and 
that I therefore placed too much weight on his evidence. In truth, however, the engineer was 
expressing his own opinion based on the facts that he observed. That is what I would expect 
in the circumstances, and is what, for example, an expert witness is required to do in court. I 
have no reason to think that the engineers opinion was not based on what he saw and was 
honestly given. In addition, I must reach my own decision on the basis of what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mr C has commented on the MOT history of the car. I note that on three occasions between 
January 2018 and August 2019 it failed a test but passed one shortly afterwards. It passed a 
further test shortly before he took delivery of it. That does indicate  as Mr C suggests  that 
problems had been developing for some time and hadnt been fully fixed. That is however 
consistent with the engineers view that the issues with the cars brakes and suspension 
were the result of wear and tear; it does not mean however that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality.          
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Oodle Financial Services Limited 
to take any further steps to resolve Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman