DRN-1903032
The complaint
Mr O complains about how QIC Europe Ltd has handled a claim under his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr O contacted the broker of his insurance policy in October 2019, following an incident in 
which his vehicle was hit while parked. The broker contacted QIC  Mr Os insurer  to make
it aware of the claim, on 9 October 2019.
On that date, Mr O gave QIC his police incident reference number, so it could get the third 
partys details. QIC says it applied for a copy of the police report in November 2019. 
However, Mr O was also concerned QIC had still not applied for the police report several 
months later, as there was some confusion over the details of the third party driver, whether 
the third party driver was insured, and the name of the third partys insurer. Several months 
went by and Mr O had to chase QIC for updates on the progress of the claim.
Mr O complained to QIC. It said allegations had been put to the third party insurer but that 
the third party insurer hadnt responded. It accepted there had been other delays and said it 
was continuing its investigation.
Mr O remained unhappy with QICs response and the progress of the claim, and brought his 
complaint to this service. Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended QIC 
pay Mr O £250 compensation for the delays and poor handling of the claim. QIC accepted 
this but Mr O disagreed. He said, among other things, that the investigator hadnt 
commented on or made any direction regarding the handling of the claim going forward and 
had focused solely on the issue of compensation.
Because Mr O disagreed with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I can only consider events which took place up until January 2020. Mr O has 
another complaint with this service which deals with the handling of the claim after that date. 
Having considered the events leading up to January 2020, Im not satisfied QIC has dealt 
with the claim as it shouldve. I say this because although Mr Os vehicle has been repaired, 
the claim still hasnt been resolved to Mr Os satisfaction over a year after the incident. 
Its clear from the information Ive seen, that QIC couldve done more to move things along 
swiftly from the time the claim was reported in October 2019, until January 2020. It couldve 
applied for a copy of the police report sooner and kept Mr O better updated throughout. So I 
can certainly appreciate Mr Os frustration.
It is also for me to determine the impact on Mr O of the delays caused by QIC and its poor 
claim handling. Mr O says, among other things, that hes suffered from declining mental 
health, loss of earnings and has also lost out on a holiday due to QICs failures. 
Whilst I appreciate that pursuing a motor insurance claim can be a stressful experience, and 
dealing with the various parties involved can take up valuable time and considerable effort, I 
do not think it should impact a customer severely. Having said this, and whilst I understand 
the delays and lack of communication have been upsetting for Mr O, I cant say from the 
information Ive seen, that the impact on Mr O in pursuing this claim has been substantial 
enough to warrant the levels of compensation he has requested.
I have considered carefully Mr Os request that I direct QIC to progress the claim swiftly and 
keep Mr O updated. However, these are actions we would usually expect of an insurer as 
part of good complaint handling. And Ive already determined that QIC has failed in this 
regard in its handling of the claim up until January 2020, so I am awarding compensation for 
these failings. If Mr O feels the same requirements have not been met after that date, or are 
not met going forward, he will be able to raise a new complaint about these matters. Or, he 
may be able to add these issues to his separate complaint about QIC, which is currently 
under investigation.
Putting things right
Having considered the impact of QICs failings in this case up until January 2020, I think it 
needs to compensate Mr O for the trouble and upset it has caused. 
QIC should pay Mr O £250 compensation, which I think is a fair and reasonable amount for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr O has experienced. 
Mr O is free to take a look at how we make our awards for financial and non-financial loss 
and he can find this information on our website.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to put things 
right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman