DRN-4107902
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund payments it didnt make. 
Mr D, who is a director of C, brings the complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
Cashplus hasnt disputed this concerns unauthorised payments. However, in line with 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts 
Mr D failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep 
Cs personalised security details safe.
To decide whether Cashplus has shown this, Ive considered the circumstances of 
what happened.
Mr D received a call from someone who claimed to be from Cashplus. He said they 
recalled sensitive information about C, like its card details. And he was told hed need 
to relay one-time passcodes (OTPs) to stop fraudulent transactions. 
Given the information they knew about C, I can see how he trusted the caller was 
genuine. And in light of the situation they presented, I can understand how Mr D 
became panicked and shared the OTPs without properly taking in entirety of the 
messages.
Ive considered Cashpluss point that, given the messages were five minutes apart, 
there was time to read them properly. Mr D has explained how he was put under 
pressure to share the OTP as soon as it came through. And given he believed he 
was talking with Cashplus and messages appeared from Cashplus when he was told 
to expect them, I can see how he trusted what hed been told to do. 
I can also understand how Mr D didnt look back on the first message afterwards. 
Indeed, I doubt most people would when they believed it had served its intended 
purpose.
It follows that I dont think he seriously disregarded an obvious risk in the 
circumstances. And taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Cashplus 
has shown Mr D failed with gross negligence. 
Cashplus submit that to not hold Mr D liable for sharing OTPs negates a purpose 
behind two factor authentication (2FA)  to stop fraud. It says that most people 
wouldnt share OTPs, so those that do are grossly negligent. 
2FA is indeed a mechanism to better protect against fraud. Afterall, without it, 
fraudsters couldve simply used Mr Ds stolen card details to make payments. But I 
dont see how not holding Mr D liable takes away from this better protection. And I 
dont think it follows that all payments made using 2FA demonstrate gross 
negligence. 
Indeed, regulation 75 of the PSRs states that the recorded use of a payment 
instrument (which would include 2FA in this case) isnt enough to show gross 
negligence. 
And the FCA, in its guidance on its approach under the PSRs explains that gross 
negligence must be assessed on its merits to ascertain whether the customer has 
acted with gross negligence. In line with the recitals to PSD2, we interpret gross 
negligence to be a higher standard than the standard of negligence under common 
law. The customer needs to have shown a very significant degree of carelessness.
It follows that sharing an OTP isnt enough to show gross negligence  its got to be 
assessed against all the circumstances of what happened. Here, Mr D was duped 
into sharing two OTPs when he was cleverly and plausibly tricked into believing he 
was talking with his genuine bank, and they were needed to stop fraudulent 
transactions. In these circumstances, Ive not been persuaded that he acted with a 
very significant degree of carelessness. 
Cashplus also submit that our approach is open to abuse, as all customers can claim 
refunds for payments by simply stating they were coerced into revealing OTPs. My 
role is to decide whats a fair outcome to Mr Ds complaint. And Cashplus hasnt 
submitted evidence to show that Mr D has acted fraudulently here, which it could do 
in line with PSRs to deny liability for an unauthorised transaction. So this point 
doesnt change my mind. 
So, while Ive considered Cashpluss points carefully, Im not persuaded its shown 
Mr D failed with gross negligence in the circumstances of this case. It follows that, in 
line with the PSRs, I dont consider C can be fairly held liable for these unauthorised 
payments and Cashplus needs to put things right  by refunding the unauthorised 
payments alongside 8% simple interest per year to compensate it for the time its 
been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Cs complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
must:
Pay C the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount recovered or 
refunded  I understand this to be £5,705.99.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman