DRN-4153672
The complaint
Miss K complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In October 2021, Miss K received a message from a man through a dating website she had 
signed up to. They swapped numbers and started talking by phone and text message, and 
their relationship developed to the point where Miss K though they were in a romantic 
relationship. Unfortunately, we now know the man was a scammer.
The scammer said he worked as an architect and had to fly to a foreign country to see if he 
had won a contract to build a school there. He then said he had won the contract and 
received a grant to build the school, but his bank account had been blocked due to the large 
amount of money from the grant going into it. He had tried to have the grant paid by cheque 
as well, but needed money in order to open an account in the foreign country and pay the 
taxes to have the grant released to him. So he asked Miss K to lend him some money.
As Miss K thought the scammer was genuine and was told he would repay her once his 
account was unblocked, she made several payments from her Santander account to the 
account details the scammer gave her. Ive set out the payments Miss K made below:
Date Amount
21 November 2021 £5,000
21 November 2021 £3,000
22 November 2021 £8,000
The scam was uncovered after Miss K and the scammer arranged to meet in person, but the 
scammer didnt show up. Miss K also asked him to repay the money she had sent to him, 
but he kept giving excuses for why he couldnt and then eventually stopped responding and 
blocked her phone number. Miss K then reported the payments to Santander as a scam and 
asked it to refund the money she had lost.
Santander investigated and said it didnt provide an effective warning before Miss K made 
any of the payments, so accepted it was partly liable. But it also said Miss K could have 
done more to check the man was genuine before making the payments. So it offered to 
refund 50% of the money she had lost. Miss K wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, 
so referred a complaint to our service.
I sent Miss K and Santander a provisional decision on 20 April 2023, setting out why I was 
intending to uphold this complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victim of authorised push payment scams, like the one Miss K fell victim to, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those 
exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Miss K ignore an effective warning in relation to the payments?
Santander has accepted that it didnt provide an effective warning to Miss K before she 
made any of the payments. So Miss K therefore cant have ignored an effective warning in 
relation to any of the payments.
Did Miss K have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
Miss K says she was initially contacted by the scammer through a dating website she had 
signed up to, so she wasnt cold-called or contacted unexpectedly. She says the scammers 
profile on the dating website looked normal and had a number of photos of him. And she had 
been communicating with him for a number of weeks before sending him any money, 
including speaking to him over the phone and being sent photos of him growing up and a 
copy of his passport. So I think its reasonable that this will have initially seemed like a 
genuine relationship to Miss K.
When he mentioned needing to go to a foreign country about a contract, Miss K says the 
scammer left her a voicemail which sounded as if he was in an airport and sent her 
screenshots showing his location in the foreign country. The scammer then also sent her 
designs for the school he was building and a certificate of the grant he had received. And 
when he started asking her for money, the scammer sent Miss K a photo of the cheque hed 
been given and screenshots showing his account was blocked. And I think its reasonable 
that this will all have made what the scammer was telling her seem genuine to Miss K.
The scammer also told Miss K that he had no other family he could ask to lend him the 
money, and explained that she should send the money to his solicitor in the UK who was 
helping him with his account and would be able to send the money on to him. So I also think 
Miss K was given plausible explanations for the circumstances surrounding the payments 
she was asked to make.
With the benefit of hindsight, its possible to identify things about the situation which should 
have caused Miss K some concern or steps Miss K could have taken to reduce the risk of falling victim to this kind of scam. But based on what shes told us I dont think it was 
unreasonable that, in the moment, she didnt pick up on these issues, they didnt cause her 
enough concern to overcome the parts of what was happening that did feel genuine or she 
didnt carry out any further checks into what she was being told.
So I dont think Santander has established that Miss K made the payments without a 
reasonable basis for belief that they were genuine.
I therefore dont think Santander has established that any of the exclusions to 
reimbursement under the CRM code apply here. And so, under the CRM code, I think 
Santander should refund the money Miss K lost as a result of this scam  in full.
I said Id consider anything further Miss K and Santander sent in following the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Miss K not Santander sent in any further information to be considered following the 
provisional decision, and both said they accepted the outcome Id reached. So, as no further 
information was sent in, I still think the conclusions I reached in the provisional decision are 
correct, and for the same reasons.
So I still dont think Santander has established that any of the exclusions to reimbursement 
under the CRM code apply here. And so, under the CRM code, I think Santander should 
refund the money Miss K lost as a result of this scam  in full.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to:
 Refund Miss K the remaining £8,000 she lost as a result of this scam
 Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date it initially declined her claim until 
the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman