DRN-3796974
The complaint
Mr L complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) didnt correctly 
process a balance transfer. 
What happened
In December 2021, Mr L instructed Virgin to process a balance transfer from his Virgin credit 
card to another account held with a different business (which Ill call B). This showed as 
being made on Mr Ls account with Virgin, but was then reversed by B. Mr L contacted Virgin 
about this, but it said hed need to contact B about this, which he did.
Virgin provided information to show that hed input all the necessary details correctly when 
instructing the transfer and told him that B would be responsible for the transfer being 
reversed. But when B responded to him, it also said that it hadnt made a mistake. While this 
was going on, Mr L had balances on both cards that he was having to pay.
Mr L complained about Virgin but it said that it hadnt made a mistake in respect of the 
balance transfers. It offered Mr L £100 for some separate service related issues though. But 
Mr L wasnt happy with what it said about the balance transfer. So he brought his complaint 
to this service, where one of our investigators looked into it. Our investigator said that the 
information didnt show that Virgin had made any errors here.
Mr L pursued a separate complaint against B, which this service also looked at. When this 
wasnt resolved to his satisfaction, he asked for this complaint against Virgin to be passed to 
an ombudsman on the basis that one business should be held liable for what happened with 
his payment being reversed. So I now have to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand Mr Ls frustration here. He correctly instructed a balance transfer and yet it 
wasnt successful. So I can see why he thinks that one of the businesses involved should be 
held responsible for the transfer failing. But, I have to focus on Mr Ls complaint against 
Virgin here, rather than the separate complaint which has been dealt with my another 
ombudsman. That said, I have considered the evidence on both files insofar as it is relevant 
to the circumstances of this complaint against Virgin here.
In doing so, I have to make my decision impartially  that is, without taking sides and by 
being fair to both parties in a dispute. That means that I have to consider what Mr L has said 
and provided, alongside Virgins version of events and evidence. To be fair to the parties, we 
focus on the evidence thats provided and then make a decision based on what would be fair 
and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so here, the evidence here simply doesnt show that Virgin has made any 
mistakes in how it carried out Mr Ls instruction for a balance transfer. Virgins records from 
its systems relating to the payment show that it used the correct details and reference 
number, in line with Mr Ls instructions. The transfer was then processed by Virgin and went 
to B. It was B that then returned the payment, but I cant see that was because of anything to 
do with Virgin here.
I realise that B has said that the problem here stems from the reference number being 
incomplete on receipt. But everything Ive seen from Virgin confirms that it used the correct 
reference number in full, along with all the other relevant details, when instructing the 
balance transfer. Nor can I see anything else in the records and system information Virgin 
has provided to make me think it could fairly be held responsible for what happened here. 
Given the situation, I also asked Virgin for more information about how it processes balance 
transfers like this. Its confirmed that there is no manual intervention in the process and that 
the payment details used are taken directly from the customer, which lines up with what its 
records show. So without any clear evidence that Virgin is responsible for the issues here  
its difficult for me to say that they can fairly or reasonably be held liable for what happened.
I realise that this will be very disappointing and frustrating for Mr L, given what hes told us 
about the impact this has had on him. Indeed, hes mentioned that he could see this being 
the outcome. But I hope hell be reassured that I have considered all the evidence available 
to me in reaching this decision. Mr L hasnt asked us to consider the other service elements 
that Virgin offered compensation for. But in the event he hasnt accepted this yet, or it hasnt 
been paid  he is free to get in touch with Virgin and ask that they pay this now. But there is 
no more that this service can do in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money doesnt need to do 
anything further to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman