DRN-4088142
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T have complained about Covea Insurance plc. They are not happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under their building insurance policy.
 
For ease of reading any reference to Covea includes its agents and Ive mainly referred to 
Mrs and Mr T in this decision as opposed to their representative.
What happened
Mrs and Mr T made a claim under their building insurance policy after a subsidence problem 
at their property. Covea considered matters and looked to settle the claim. But Mrs and Mr T 
werent happy about the way it had dealt with the claim and so they complained to Covea 
and then this Service. They raised a number of points including concerns around the 
credentials and expertise of Coveas surveyor; lack of monitoring of their property after tree 
removal; that the tree removal (roots) was still affecting the property; that their property 
wasnt fully repaired including having a visible crack and being left with mismatched 
externally painted walls; and there were delays in resolving the claim.
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs and Mr T and partly upheld their complaint. She 
thought Coveas surveyors credentials and professional qualifications were suitable and that 
there wasnt anything to suggest their diagnosis was incorrect; that the monitoring of their 
property was sufficient; that Covea should ensure all the trees are felled and the 
roots/stumps poisoned if it hasnt already done this; and she thought that Coveas recent 
offer to pay a contribution towards the additional cost of painting the exterior (just over £700) 
was fair. But she thought Covea should pay Mrs and Mr T £400 compensation in 
acknowledgement of its delay and poor service.
 
Covea accepted the position outlined but Mrs and Mr T didnt so the matter has been passed 
to me for review.                       
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a fair degree of sympathy for Mrs and Mr T, and I can understand their frustrations as 
their claim has been delayed and hasnt been dealt with as smoothly as it should have been.
 
In response to our investigators view Mrs and Mr T has now accepted the monitoring of the 
property was sufficient and that there isnt any evidence the property hasnt stabilised. And 
they accepted that Covea should ensure all the trees are felled and the roots/stumps are 
poisoned. So, I dont propose to go over this further and I will focus on the points Mrs and Mr 
T dont agree with in this decision.
 
I know Mrs and Mr T continue to question the qualifications and credentials of Coveas 
surveyors, but Ive seen enough evidence to say they are proficient in their area of work and 
expertise and are suitably qualified. I know Mrs and Mr T feel that one of the surveyors didnt 
attend their property and questioned whether the attending engineer had the level of 
expertise to consider the different areas that required repair. And I understand further 
opinion was required but that doesnt mean the surveyors werent qualified or they didnt 
have sufficient qualifications. Unfortunately, claims like this can be difficult to get to the 
bottom of and although things couldve been handled better I dont think this means that 
Coveas appointed agents didnt have the required skill or expertise.
 
In relation to the external walls, I know Mrs and Mr T feel that they should be paid to cover 
the costs of matching all of the external area that wasnt affected but still required painting. 
But I think this would be going a step too far in this case and a reasonable match to the 
original paint work could be made. As such, I agree with our investigator that the additional 
amount of just over £700 that was added to the scope of works seems fair. Covea has said 
repairs need to be proportionate for the damage and we would only cover the damaged 
area to a corner or natural break and no other areas which I feel is reasonable. 
Finally, our investigator accepted that there had been a number of delays in the 
advancement of Mrs and Mr Ts claim and awarded £400 by way of compensation and I 
think this feels fair. As our investigator outlined insurance claims, especially difficult 
subsidence claims like this one with other impacting factors, are often drawn out and difficult 
with inevitable delays. So, I have just focussed on the avoidable delays caused by Covea 
and its agents and the impact on Mrs and Mr T.
 
It is clear there were some avoidable delays in dealing with Mrs and Mr Ts claim which 
Covea has accepted. There was a period of around four months when the claim was 
delayed, and I agree with our investigator that although discussion about advancement of 
the claim was required it wasnt necessary for work to stop or be paused. There was also 
months delay in confirming that the same builder would be used for the dual aspect of the 
claim which caused delay including drawing up the schedule of works. Given this, which 
Covea has accepted, I think Mrs and Mr T should be paid £400 compensation for the stress 
and inconvenience caused by the avoidable delay.
I know Mrs and Mr T feel that further delays were preventable, when the claim was placed 
on hold while a previous monitoring report was awaited, but I think this links in with the 
unfortunate delay that often occurs with these kinds of claims. I dont think Covea acted 
unreasonably in looking to re-evaluate the claim at this stage and consider any possible 
impact any previous subsidence issues may have had on the recent claim. Insurers are 
entitled to ask for further information when they deem it necessary. And Im satisfied that 
Covea needed to review things at this stage in order to decide if there had been any 
previous subsidence and whether this had been disclosed as this couldve had a significant 
impact on the claim. 
So, although Mrs and Mr T will be frustrated by this, as they feel the level of compensation 
should be increased, but I think Covea were entitled to make these enquiries whatever the 
impact on the claim. And given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the 
particular circumstances of this case and for the reasons outlined above, is for Covea to pay 
Mrs and Mr T £400 by way of compensation for the delay and poor service. Plus, it should 
ensure that all the trees are felled, and the roots/stumps are poisoned. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Covea 
Insurance plc to ensure that all the trees are felled, and the roots/stumps are poisoned. And 
it should pay £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman