DRN-4141773
The complaint
Miss H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
Miss H is being represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to 
Miss H throughout this decision.
What happened
In May 2018, Miss H was provided with a £25,000 loan by Tesco Bank. She says that 
adequate checks werent undertaken before the loan was provided and that when she 
struggled with her repayments Tesco Bank wasnt helpful. Miss H says she was earning 
£25,000 a year at that time.
Tesco Bank issued its final response letter in February 2022. It didnt uphold Miss Hs 
complaint. It said it received an internet application from Miss H on 30 April 2018, for a 
£25,000 loan. It said before providing the loan it carried out a credit check and also checked 
the information Miss H had provided against other sources. It said Miss H said she had a 
monthly income of £1,700 plus a carers allowance of £400 and rent of £600. It provided 
details of the loan offer and asked Miss H to check the loan was affordable. It said Miss H 
signed the documents and the loan was provided on 2 May 2018. 
Tesco Bank said that Miss h had offered a full an final settlement amount of £12,173 with no 
further impact on Miss Hs credit file but it didnt accept this as full and final settlement offers 
were only reviewed once an account had been defaulted and terminated.
Miss H wasnt satisfied with Tesco Banks response and referred her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator thought it would have been reasonable for Tesco Bank to have 
verified Miss Hs financial circumstances before lending. She reviewed three months of 
Miss Hs bank statements, and these showed her outgoings to be higher than her income 
and that her salary was lower than had been recorded. She thought that had Tesco Bank 
carried out proportionate checks it would have seen the lending wasnt affordable. Therefore 
she upheld this part of Miss Hs complaint and recommended that all interest, fees and 
charges be refunded and once any outstanding balance had been cleared that any adverse 
information should be removed from Miss Hs credit file
Our investigator noted the comments made about Tesco Bank not assisting Miss H when 
she experienced repayment issues during the Covid period. However, she thought that 
Tesco Bank had done enough during this time to support Miss H.
Tesco Bank didnt agree with our investigators view. It didnt agree that further checks were 
required as it said its checks showed no issues noting Miss H had a low indebtedness score, 
and no existing lines of credit. It didnt think it proportionate to request Miss Hs bank 
statements in this case. Tesco Bank asked if Miss H was in receipt of the carers allowance 
she had noted. It said that including this alongside the other information our investigator had 
noted still suggested the loan repayments were affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to 
carry out, it just needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: 
the type and amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total 
cost of the credit and the consumers circumstances.
As part of the application process for the loan, Miss H provided information about her 
employment and income. She noted that she had a monthly net income of £1,700 a carers 
allowance of £400 and rental income of £600. She was asked about her housing costs and 
recorded monthly mortgage payments of £445. A credit card was recorded with a limit of 
£250 but no balance and a loan with repayments of £417. As well as gathering information 
through the application process, Tesco Bank carried out a credit check. This was used to 
assess Miss Hs existing credit commitments and I can see a higher amount was noted from 
the credit reference search than suggested by Miss Hs information about her loan and credit 
card. The credit check was also used to check Miss Hs credit worthiness.
I have considered the information Tesco Bank gathered. I have seen the information 
received through its credit search (as well as a more recent credit file provided by Miss H) 
and I do not find that I can say the credit search should have raised concerns that meant the 
lending shouldnt have been provided. While I note Miss H had taken out a large loan two 
months prior to applying for the Tesco Bank loan (and I can see she had taken out previous 
loans and settled them early) she had noted the Tesco Bank loan was for refinancing other 
debt. 
While I do not find Miss Hs credit search raised any particular concerns about how she was 
managing her money, having considered the size and term of the loan and noting the size of 
the repayments, I think it would have been proportionate for Tesco Bank to have verified 
Miss Hs income before lending. I do not find that Tesco Bank was required to request 
copies of Miss Hs bank statements to do this, but I have used the information contained in 
this to assess what Tesco Bank would likely have found had it taken steps to verify Miss Hs 
income.
Having looked through Miss Hs bank statements these show her salary to be lower than 
declared in her application. Her average for the three months leading to the application was 
around £965. Additional to this Miss H was receiving rental income but again this was lower 
than she had declared - £400 rather than £600. Miss Hs application includes an amount for 
a carers allowance however this isnt shown in her bank statements and having asked 
Miss H about this she has said that she wasnt receiving this. While I agree that Miss H had 
a responsibility to include accurate information on her application for the loan, I also think in 
this case Tesco Bank should have taken steps to verify the income figures provided. Had it 
done this it would have discovered Miss Hs monthly income was lower than declared at 
around £1,364.
Given an income verification would have flagged discrepancies in the data recorded in 
Miss Hs application I think this meant that further checks were then required. I cannot say 
for certain what Miss H would have declared had she been asked about her expenses but looking through her bank statements these show outgoings for her mortgage (£445 as 
declared) as well as utilities, media services, council tax, insurances, memberships and 
other credit commitments. Taking into account that the loan repayments of £417 would no 
longer be required after the Tesco Bank loan was provided (as Miss H used this to repay the 
loan) I can see she had monthly outgoings before food, fuel and other general living costs 
and before the loan repayments to Tesco Bank of around £1,080. Taking these figures into 
account I do not find that the repayments due under the Tesco Bank loan, of around £406 
should have been considered affordable.
Miss H also says that she wasnt provided with the support she should have been when she 
experienced difficulties making her repayments. I note the comments she has made about 
struggling to make her payments during Covid and I can see that she applied for payment 
breaks. While I can see from the case notes there were initially some issues with the 
payment break being applied action was taken to reverse any issues arising from this and I 
can see that the requested payment breaks were applied to Miss Hs account. Following this 
period, I can see that Miss Hs financial difficulties were explained to Tesco Bank and holds 
were placed on her account. Miss H asked for a reduced settlement amount and the process 
was explained. Therefore, while I understand this was a difficult time for Miss H I think, on 
balance, Tesco Bank did try to assist her when she was struggling to make her repayments.
Putting things right
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges 
and insurances (not already refunded) that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss H along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. Tesco Bank should also remove all adverse information regarding this account 
from Miss Hs credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco Bank should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss H for the remaining amount. Once Miss H has cleared 
the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from her 
credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. 
If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC should take the actions set out above 
in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman