DRN-2310948
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H had the benefit of a single trip platinum travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV, 
which provided cover for a holiday hed booked for December 2019 (the policy). 
Whilst abroad on that holiday, Mr H took a boat trip with his friends. His backpack fell into the 
sea and couldnt be recovered. Mr H says the backpack contained cash (both in pounds and 
local currency) and various personal possessions. 
After he returned to the UK, Mr H made a claim under the policy to recover his losses. After 
discussing the incident with Mr H by phone, URV declined his claim. 
Unhappy, Mr H complained to URV. And after URV didnt uphold his complaint, he contacted 
our Service. 
Our investigator didnt think URV had unfairly declined his claim. Mr H disagreed so his 
complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
URV has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms of policy being met, the policy does cover lost possessions 
whilst away and up to £750 if your cash is lost during your trip.
The policy goes on to say:
For all losses:
You should report to the Police as soon as possible, within 24 hours of discovery, 
and obtain a written report and reference number from them. You should also report 
the loss to your tour operators representative or hotel/apartment manager wherever 
appropriate.
Mr H says he did report the lost backpack to the police but that they wouldnt provide a 
report for lost items. He also said he told the boat company and other local businesses in 
case the backpack was later discovered. 
Ive also seen a message he sent to the hotel he was staying at from the end of January 
2020  around the time URV declined his claim  asking for confirmation that hed reported 
the lost backpack to them. However, it doesnt look like he received a reply.
Further, although Mr H reported the incident to the airline, as the backpack wasnt lost in 
transit  or at the airport - it was able to assist further. 
I can understand Mr Hs frustrations and I can see why, from his perspective, he would like 
URV to contact the police in the country hed lost his backpack. 
However, I dont think it was reasonably required to do this. It is for Mr H to establish his 
claim under the policy and, in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think URV has 
unfairly declined his claim on the basis that he was unable to do so. Particularly given that 
hes been unable to produce a police report and / or reference number that hed reported the 
lost backpack to them. And that he hasnt been able to provide any corroborative evidence 
that he reported the loss to the hotel.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman