DRN-1628511
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold 
him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr C bought a regular premium MPPI policy in October 1996. He purchased the policy 
during a meeting with an advisor from Halifax in one of its branches. The mortgage ended in 
1999.
Mrs C says the policy was not discussed in any detail. He says he was given the impression 
that no part of the mortgage was optional. He thinks Halifax mis-sold the policy to him.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. As he doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive looked at the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint because of the following reasons:
Mr C says he was given the impression that no part of the mortgage was optional. 
 
I acknowledge everything Mr C has said. I cant be sure exactly what was discussed 
between Mr C and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that the sale 
took place many years ago, and that detailed recollections of what happened can 
fade over time.
 
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats 
not surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive 
seen. 
 
Without anything else to support what Mr C have told me, and based on what I know 
of sales conducted by Halifax during that time, I cant safely conclude that Halifax 
didnt make him aware that the policy was optional. I haven't seen enough evidence 
to draw that conclusion. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr C during the meeting 
and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this 
was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr C, it had to ensure during the 
sale that the policy was suitable for his needs. 
 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr C based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr C 
says he would have been able to claim 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay and 
he had £3000-4000 worth of savings but the MPPI policy would have paid in addition 
to any provisions he would have had and for longer. So the benefit would have been 
of use to Mr C during a difficult time as he could have used his provisions to pay for 
other expenses. I think, on balance, Mr C had a need for this cover based on 
his circumstances at the date of sale, for any extended period of unemployment or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term 
that would make the policy unsuitable for him either. Mr C did mention he had a 
medical condition at the time of sale, but has told our service it was mild and didn't 
affect him day to day. So i don't think having this condition would have made the 
policy unsuitable for him.
 
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Mr C took out but even though it has provided information detailing the cover and 
how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to Mr C in a clear 
and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly I dont 
think Mr C would have done anything different and decided against having the policy 
for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr C wouldve been affected by any of these.
 
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman