DRN-3860501
The complaint
Mr C complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
declining a claim under his pet insurance policy for treatment of his dog.
References to Red Sands include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr Cs dog had a problem with stomach pain, so he took the dog to a vet, who 
ran some tests and a scan.  The vet diagnosed gastroenteritis. The vet said it could have 
been triggered by something in the dogs diet and recommended a change in diet. Mr C 
subsequently made a claim for the cost of treatment (£1,396.53). 
However, Red Sands said they wouldnt accept the claim, as review of the dogs clinical 
history showed previous episodes of stomach ailments indicating it had a pre-existing 
condition prior to Mr C taking out his policy in January 2020. 
Mr C was unhappy about Red Sands decline of his claim and challenged it. He thought the 
previous episodes were transient and the length of time between them meant they were 
unrelated and so not a pre-existing condition. 
Red Sands treated Mr Cs challenge as a complaint but didnt uphold it. In their final 
response they said Mr Cs dog had an extensive history of recurrent intermittent vomiting 
and abdominal pain (including pancreatitis and gastroenteritis) before Mr C took out his 
policy. Red Sands also noted further episodes after the policy was taken out (including 
pancreatitis, which Red Sands said was a chronic condition, requiring long term 
management). Red Sands also referred to their vets opinion (from review of the dogs 
medical history) that the recent episode of abdominal pain and suspected gastritis appeared 
to be an ongoing issue and likely to be related to previous gastrointestinal symptoms that 
began before the policy started. So, Red Sands considered the abdominal pain and 
suspected gastritis to be a pre-existing condition. They confirmed the decline of the claim.
 
Mr C then complained to this service, unhappy at Red Sands final response and their 
decline of his claim. He wanted Red Sands to reconsider their decline of his claim and 
accept it. He wanted them to reimburse the £1,396.53 vet bill hed paid (less the policy 
excess of £250).
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint, concluding Red Sands had fairly declined 
the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. The dogs medical history indicated a 
history of suspected gastritis and related symptoms before the policy start (recurrent vomiting 
and abdominal pain). Together with the views of Red Sands vet, while some time since the 
previous episodes, the policy terms and conditions were clear that conditions related to 
symptoms before the policy start date wouldnt be covered.  
Mr C disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, he said stomach issues could occur for several reasons and 
then go away. And his vet had told him that, in their opinion, gastritis and gastroenteritis 
should not be classified as ongoing conditions. Also Red Sands vet wasnt impartial as they 
were working for Red Sands. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Red Sands have acted fairly towards Mr C. 
The key issue in Mr Cs complaint is whether Red Sands acted fairly in declining his claim for 
treatment of his dog, on the grounds the dogs clinical history indicated the recent episode of 
abdominal pain and suspected gastritis appeared to be an ongoing issue and likely to be 
related to previous gastrointestinal symptoms that began before the policy start. So, Red 
Sands consider this to indicate a pre-existing condition. Mr Cs view is the previous episodes 
were transient and the length of time between episodes mean they are unrelated and so not 
a pre-existing condition. 
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
together with the supporting information and evidence, including the medical history of Mr 
Cs dog. Starting with the terms and conditions of the policy and associated documents, 
theres the following statement in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID):
What is not insured?
X Any accident, illness or condition which is present or has clinical signs or 
symptoms before taking the policy out or occurs in the first 14 days of the policy. 
Similar wording appears under the Pre-existing conditions heading in the policy document.
Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition, 
specifically the gastroenteritis diagnosed by the vet in May 2022. Or whether there were any 
clinical signs or symptoms before that date (and, critically, before the policy start date). 
Looking at the medical history, there are notes of issues including vomiting, going back to 
April 2016. Theres a note at that date that refers to Started treating symptomatically for 
acute gastritis. In August 2016 theres also a note stating Diagnosis: Gastroenteritis  had 
last bout 4 months ago. In September 2018 theres a note referring to pancreatitis, with a 
further reference to the same condition in a note dated December 2021, and to a history of 
pancreatitis in a note dated May 2022.
Given these references and notes, Ive concluded there were indications of the conditions 
and symptoms associated with gastroenteritis (gastritis) and pancreatitis both before the 
policy was taken out and subsequently after it was taken out. And given the policy wording 
and terms set out above, Im satisfied there was a pre-condition and that the policy terms are 
clear that this wouldnt be covered. So, Ive concluded Red Sands acted fairly in line with the 
policy terms and conditions in declining Mr Cs claim.
While Ive come to this conclusion, Ive also considered Mr Cs point about the independence 
of Red Sands vet. While they are working for Red Sands, theyre providing their professional 
opinion based on the medical history of the dog. And this is consistent with my own review of 
the medical history as set out above. While Mr C cites the opinion of his vet, Ive not seen 
this independently corroborated by the vet concerned. And it doesnt change my conclusions 
based on the medical history and associated notes and references set out above.Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given the points noted above, Im persuaded 
Red Sands have shown enough to apply the exclusion for a pre-existing condition in the 
circumstances of this case. So, Ive concluded Red Sands acted fairly to apply the exclusion 
to decline Mr Cs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman