DRN-3859008
The complaint
Ms C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard provided incorrect 
information about her credit card account. 
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms C and Barclaycard, so Ive only 
summarised the events here. In my decision, Ill focus on giving the reasons for reaching the 
outcome I have. 
Ms C says that in 2021 she contacted Barclaycard and was told that her outstanding credit 
card balance had been written-off and she had nothing to pay. She has since fund out that 
the debt was sold to a third-party debt collection agency and her credit file has been 
negatively impacted. 
Barclaycard says Ms Cs credit card account fell into arrears in 2019 and that it wrote to her 
on several occasions but didnt receive a response. As a result, the account was defaulted 
and subsequently sold to a third-party collection agency. Barclaycard has accepted that Ms 
C was given some mis-information when she called in 2021. And it offered Ms C £50 
compensation by way of an apology.
Ms C referred her complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. Ms C didnt accept this outcome, so the complaint has been referred 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I have a great deal of sympathy for the very difficult personal 
circumstances Ms C has told us she suffered in 2019, Ive reached the same overall 
conclusion as the investigator. I appreciate Ms C will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Ms C hasnt disputed that she had an outstanding balance on her Barclaycard account or 
that she was unable to meet her contractual payments in 2019. Rather, the crux of this 
particular complaint is that when Ms C contacted Barclaycard in 2021, she was told her 
outstanding balance had been written off and she had nothing to pay. And that isnt the true 
position of her account.  
As the investigator has explained, Barclaycard has provided copies of several letters it wrote 
to Ms C during 2019. In summary, the letters set out that payments had been missed, details 
of the arrears, the consequences of no action being taken, and what Ms C needed to do to 
prevent further action from being taken. So, Im satisfied Barclaycard did what I would expect 
it to do at this point.    
I note what Ms C has said about not living at the address Barclaycard wrote to in 2019 and 
that she was suffering some severe personal problems. She has also said that Barclaycard 
should have made more effort to contact her by others means. But Ive not seen anything 
that would make me think that Barclaycard were aware of Ms Cs circumstances at the time 
or that she wasnt living at the address it held on its records for her  for example, mail being 
returned undelivered. So, Im satisfied that Barclaycard had no reason to think its 
correspondence wasnt being received and that it needed to try other forms of 
communication. Overall, I think Barclaycard did enough to let Ms C know what the status of 
her account was and what action it intended to take.
In the absence of the any contact from Ms C Barclaycard issued a default notice. Its my 
understanding that this was based on Ms C being more than three months in arrears. And 
with no contact from Ms C, Barclaycard considered its relationship with Ms C had broken 
down.  Based on everything Ive seen I dont find it unreasonable that Barclaycard issued a 
default notice at that point and later transferred the debt to a collection agency. This is in 
keeping with the default guidance issued by the Information Commissionaires Office (ICO) 
and the terms of her credit card account.  
Ms C has told us she was told that the debt had been written off by Barclaycard and she had 
nothing further to pay. I havent been provided with the call recordings, but I dont think I 
need to listen to a recording of the call as Barclaycard hasnt disputed that Ms C was told her 
account had been written off when she called it in 2021. Barclaycard has explained that 
this was said in the context of Barclaycard no longer being the business who Ms C owed the 
outstanding balance to  in the sense that, the account had been written off its records. And 
Im persuaded that this is most likely the case. 
 
When mis-information/unclear information is given, I need to think about what Ms C would 
have done differently had the right information been given/made clearer. But even if 
Barclaycard had been clearer in explaining what action had been taken, I dont think this 
would have altered Ms Cs position. The conversations Ms C had with Barclaycard were in 
2021  over a year after her credit card account had been defaulted and sold. So, by 2021 
Ms C was always in the position where her outstanding debt was with a third-party and that 
she needed to contact the third-party to discuss her options going forward. And the default 
had already been recorded on her credit file.
   
Barclays offered Ms C £50 compensation for the mis/unclear information it provided Ms C. I 
consider that its offer was a fair and reasonable response. For the reasons given above,   
Ms C wasnt detrimentally impacted by the mis-information she was given  her account had 
already been defaulted and sold and her call in 2021 wouldnt have changed that. So, Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Barclaycard to pay Ms C 
more compensation. If Ms C now wants to accept that offer of compensation, she should 
contact Barclaycard directly to provide details of where the payment should be sent. 
Whilst I appreciate my decision will disappoint Ms C, Im not going to ask Barclaycard to take 
any further action in respect of this complaint. 
Ive seen that Ms C has mentioned that Barclaycard provided her with the credit card 
irresponsibly. If Ms C wants to pursue this complaint point, she will need to contact 
Barclaycard in the first instance. This complaint point has not been considered as part of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman