DRN-2324023
Complaint
Mrs S has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
Background
Mrs S took out a store card in August 2003  PPI was applied to her account at the same 
time.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold 
Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs S that the policy was optional, and it had to get her consent 
before it added PPI to her account.
Mrs S says she was not aware of the policy. AXA says that Mrs S would have been asked to 
opt for PPI on her store card agreement, but they no longer hold a copy due to the amount of 
time thats passed since the sale. 
AXA also says it appears Mrs S didnt attempt to use her account until 2005, so a 
replacement agreement was signed in 2006. AXA said that PPI was not selected at this time, 
but that documentation confirming the sale of PPI would have been sent to the address 
Mrs S provided. AXA says if Mrs S had not agreed to take out the policy, she had the option 
to cancel it after she received the documents.
I have seen a copy of the agreement Mrs S completed on 6 January 2006. On this, PPI has 
not been selected and Mrs S has signed the agreement, confirming her options  that she 
did not want PPI.
AXA has provided some system notes that explain there was activity on the account as far 
back as 2003  it hasnt confirmed what this activity was. But the notes say that they never 
received the original application form and because of this, a block was placed on the 
account. So, I dont agree that the store card agreement from 2003 is missing due to the 
timescales involved  it was never received.
The notes go on to explain that Mrs S attempted to start using the account in 2005, but she 
was told she could not use it due to the missing agreement. Its likely she was asked to 
complete another form at this time  which explains why there is an agreement for the same 
card dated in 2006.
So, AXA has never held any documents from around the time of sale to confirm Mrs S chose 
to take PPI. And the agreement it asked her to complete later confirms that she didnt want 
it. I dont think being able to cancel the policy makes a difference in this case  I think Mrs S 
paid for the policy even though she didnt really want it. And AXA should not have kept PPI 
on the account after Mrs S confirmed she didnt want it.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs S would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs S owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs S 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs S would 
have owed AXA something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman