DRN-2329033
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs W have a Reward account with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax 
(Halifax). They were advised in branch that they would qualify to receive the £5 monthly 
reward but they didnt receive this in July and August. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W say that they received a letter from Halifax about changes to their Reward 
account and went into branch to query the qualification criteria. They say that they were told 
that they qualified and they didnt need to do anything to get the £5 reward each month. 
Halifax says that to be eligible for the £5 reward payment, Mr and Mrs W would need to pay 
at least £1,500 into the account each month and stay in credit. They also needed to choose 
whether to earn either £5 a month or a lifestyle benefit by either spending £500 or more each 
month on their debit card or by keeping a daily balance of £5000 or more in the account. 
Halifax says that the letter it sent to Mr and Mrs W in March 2020 outlined what was required 
to earn the £5 payment and contained a contact number for customers to call to confirm they 
wanted to keep the Reward account along with what Reward extra they would like. Had this 
not been done by 15 May 2020, Halifax says that the account would have automatically 
changed to a Current account. However, it says that the account has continued as a Reward 
account and it wouldnt have been able to apply a Reward extra to the account without Mr 
and Mrs Ws choice of which they preferred.
Halifax says that Mr and Mrs W selected to pay £500 on their debit card each month. During 
June, July and August, Mr and Mrs W only paid £23.65 on their debit card so Halifax says 
they werent eligible for the £5 reward payment. Halifax says that once the selection has 
been made it remains in place for 12 months, so it cant be changed until 30 May 2021. 
However, it gave Mr and Mrs W £10 to cover the July and August payments as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr and Mrs W say that they never use the account for direct spending, only for direct debits. 
However, they do qualify on the other option which is needed to get the £5 reward as £5,000 
is always in the account (and over £1,500 gets paid into the account each month). They say 
they wouldnt have chosen the option which they knew would mean they didnt qualify for the 
reward and they have no recollection of doing this.
Our investigator looked at this complaint. He found that it was unlikely Mr and Mrs W would 
have opted for the criteria to spend £500 on their debit card as Halifax claimed. So, whilst he 
wasnt able to explain where the error lies, he thought it more likely that the error was due to 
Halifax inputting the incorrect criteria. Therefore, he concluded that Mr and Mrs W should 
benefit from the reward available on the account. Mr and Mrs W are unable to alter the 
account until 12 months has elapsed. As Halifax has already paid them £10 in respect of two 
months worth of missed rewards, the investigator suggested that Halifax pay them a further 
£50 to cover the other ten months.
Halifax disagreed with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. It maintains that 
Mr and Mrs W opted for the debit card spend option and has provided records showing that 
Mrs W used online banking during the relevant time period. It says that there is no record of 
a bank colleague enquiring on the account between the letter being sent and the cut-off date 
for the selection. It says that the only conclusion is that this must be a customer error, the 
consequence of which is losing out on the reward. It says there has been no bank error.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having looked at the evidence I share the investigators view for broadly the same reasons 
and I've explained why below.
Ive seen a copy of the letter which set out the options to qualify for the £5 reward (or one of 
the lifestyle benefits. It also says that Halifax had to receive confirmation from customers to 
confirm they wanted to keep the Reward account by 15 May 2020 or else the account would 
change to Current account. 
It seems clear that a selection must have been made at some point as otherwise the account 
would have changed to a Current account. Mr and Mrs W have said they went into branch 
following receipt of the letter and were told there was nothing more they needed to do to 
qualify for the Reward account. They maintain that they did not actively opt for the debit card 
spend option. Halifax has no record of this conversation and no record of how and when Mr 
and Mrs W are said to have selected this option. 
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ws statements between September 2019 and September 2020 
and can see that they normally spend less than £25 a month on their debit card. They have 
never spent over £500 a month during that period. However, the account has always had 
over £5,000 in it over the course of that period. So it seems unlikely that they would have 
selected the option which meant they would not qualify for the £5 reward, particularly when 
the other option would have meant they did qualify.
It is not clear where the error lies in this case as there are no records of how the selection 
was made. So it would be impossible to determine now whether Halifax or Mr and Mrs W 
was responsible for the selection of the debit card spend option. 
I need to decide what would be a fair outcome in the circumstances of this case. In my view, 
what is clear is that the debit card spend option was selected incorrectly as Mr and Mrs W 
have historically not met this criteria but have met the account balance criteria for some time 
before the selection was made. Therefore, I think Halifax should treat this case as if the 
account balance option had been selected.   
Putting things right
Halifax says that it is not possible to change the option selected on the account until the end 
of May 2021 as the options are selected for a 12-month period. So, in light of the above I, 
like our investigator, think it would be appropriate for Halifax to pay Mr and Mrs W a further 
£50. This is to cover the remaining ten months of the year for which Mr and Mrs W would 
have qualified for the £5 monthly reward had the correct option been selected. 
  
My final decision For the reasons Ive explained above, I require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax to 
pay Mr and Mrs W £50 to resolve this complaint. For the avoidance of any doubt, this is in 
addition to the £10 the bank has already paid Mr and Mrs W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman