DRN-3825180
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
unfairly declined a claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H contacted RSA when the part of their garden wall collapsed. RSA said if Mr 
H and Mrs H could get a quote for under £1,500 it would settle the claim. Mr H and Mrs H 
got a quote, but it was for more than this amount. So, RSA sent a surveyor to assess the 
damage. Following this, RSA declined the claim as it said the damage was due to 
deterioration of the mortar, which was wear and tear and wasnt covered by the policy. 
When Mr H and Mrs H complained, RSA maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mr 
H and Mrs H complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said it was reasonable for RSA to decline the claim based on its surveyors findings that 
there was evidence of mortar deterioration, as this wasnt covered by the policy.
As Mr H and Mrs H didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time of the claim. This showed windspeeds 
of up to 64mph, which would be considered storm conditions. I also think a storm could 
cause a wall to collapse in some circumstances. As a result, I think the answer to the first 
two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question. Ive read RSAs surveyors report and looked at the 
photos. The surveyor found the mortar had deteriorated and crumbled away in his hand. He 
took photos to show the crumbling mortar. He also said ivy had grown through parts of the 
wall, which would have weakened it. He took photos that showed the ivy growth. 
Mr H and Mrs H provided a report from a builder. This described the sub-base as being in 
good condition and said he had cleared the old mortar from the bricks and had to use a 
hammer to remove it. 
Ive thought about this carefully. Having done so, I think RSAs surveyor is more persuasive. 
He provided clear evidence of the mortar deterioration and ivy growth he found. I dont think 
that even if Mr H and Mrs Hs builder needed a chisel to remove some of the mortar from the 
bricks that this showed that the surveyors findings were wrong. I think the surveyor has 
shown that he found wear and tear issues with the wall and that it was more likely than not 
that the storm highlighted the pre-existing issue with the wall rather than the storm being the 
main cause of it collapsing. The policy said it didnt cover wear and tear. So, I think it was 
reasonable for RSA to rely on its surveyors findings to decline the claim. As a result, I dont 
uphold this complaint or require RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman