DRN-4216207
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited settled another drivers claim 
against his motor insurance policy and gave him conflicting information. 
What happened
Mr B was involved in an incident with another driver, but he said no damage had been 
caused to the other drivers car. But Admiral thought Mr B was at fault, so it contacted the 
other driver and offered to make repairs to minimise its costs. Mr B was unhappy as he 
thought the claim was fraudulent. 
He was also unhappy that Admiral gave him incorrect information about the cost of the claim 
and about the effect on his No Claims Discount (NCD). Admiral agreed it had provided 
incorrect information and it offered Mr B £50 compensation for this. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Admiral was entitled to settle a claim as it saw fit, in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. He thought the compensation it had paid Mr B for the incorrect information was 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr B replied that photographs proved that no damage had been caused to the other drivers 
car. He said Admiral had refused to provide him with information about the repairs carried 
out to the other car. He was unhappy that this claim had affected his NCD. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided us with his version of events. He said he was driving past a stationary car 
when there may have been contact, perhaps with the wing mirrors. He said neither driver 
could see any damage at the time. And he took a photograph of the other car, showing no 
damage. He then reported this to Admiral as required by his policys terms and conditions. 
Admiral then contacted the other driver and offered to repair any damage caused. And the 
other driver accepted this offer. 
I can understand that Mr B feels frustrated that Admiral has settled the other drivers claim 
when he thought he hadnt caused any damage to his car. But it isnt our role to decide who 
was responsible for causing any damage to a car. This is the role of the courts. 
Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made 
the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr B the same as someone else in his position. 
Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr B to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr B has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making a decision about a claim. 
The evidence that Admiral had to consider was Mr Bs version of events, the photographs he 
provided and the damage to the other car. I can see that when Mr B notified Admiral of the 
incident, he said that he accepted liability as a very minor collision may have occurred. Mr B 
was the moving party whilst the other driver was stationary. So he would be held at fault.
Mr B told us that he exchanged details with the other driver and offered to deal with any 
repairs privately if they were needed. So Im satisfied that he was aware that the cars had 
made contact, that he was liable and that some damage may have occurred albeit it wasnt 
visible on their inspection. 
So I think, in keeping with industry practices, Admiral contacted the other driver to offer to 
deal with any repairs at its approved repairers. This would minimise any costs and I think 
that was fair and reasonable. The estimate of the damage and repairs provided by the 
repairer was consistent with the described incident. 
And so I think Admiral then reasonably paid for these repairs and the subsequent hire costs. 
I can see that our Investigator has already provided further information about the repairs to 
Mr B. 
Mr B sent photographs to Admiral, but I can see that when Admiral reviewed them with Mr B 
it wasnt able to zoom in clearly on the alleged affected areas. Mr B thought the photographs 
hadnt been reviewed when he first sent them in. But I havent seen evidence of this. I have 
seen that they were attached to a different part of the file and may not have been evident to 
the call handler Mr B spoke to, hence they were requested again. 
I can understand Mr Bs frustration. But Im satisfied that Admiral wouldnt pay any claim 
unnecessarily. I think it sufficiently investigated the claim and considered the evidence 
available before dealing with the other drivers repairs. And Im satisfied that its entitled to do 
this by the policys terms and conditions to minimise its outlay. So I cant say that it did 
anything wrong in this. 
The effect on Mr B was that his NCD for this car reduced to zero from one year. I can see 
that there was some confusion when Mr B asked for the effect on his NCD as he was using 
some of his NCD entitlement on another car. Mr Bs NCD was unprotected. So I think his 
NCD was correctly reduced.
Mr B had asked Admiral for the cost of the claim, and it provided different amounts. I can see 
that these were correct at the times they were provided, but I think Admiral could have 
explained this more clearly. Admiral offered Mr B £50 compensation for these errors, and Im 
satisfied that this was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for 
the impact the errors had. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman