DRN-1585561
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Insure The Box Limited trading as insurethebox incorrectly said 
if a claim was settled on a 50%50% basis it would refund half the excess to Miss R. Miss R 
made a claim under her car insurance policy, so paid the excess she owed in full. Mr F is 
representing Miss R in her complaint.
For the purpose of my decision Ill refer to the business as ITB.
What happened
In May 2018 Miss R reported an incident involving a third party to ITB. Mr F asked ITB: if 
Miss R made a claim, would she receive half of the excess back if it was settled on a shared 
liability basis. ITB said yes, she would. But this wasnt correct as the excess is classed as an 
uninsured loss under Miss Rs policy.
In April 2019 ITB told Miss R that it was closing the claim and had recovered 50% of its costs 
form the third party. Mr F asked ITB to reimburse half of the excess and for an update on 
Miss Rs personal injury claim. ITB explained that the excess is an uninsured loss and the 
solicitor dealing with the personal injury claim will look to recover half of the excess costs. 
Mr F complained to ITB on behalf of Miss R. ITB apologised for giving incorrect information 
about the recovery of the excess -  and for a delay in instructing a solicitor to deal with Miss 
Rs personal injury claim. It paid Miss R £100 compensation, which it later increased to £150 
in total. It said the policy explains when the excess is payable. And ITB explained Miss Rs 
right to seek recovery of the excess as an uninsured loss through a solicitor.
But Mr F wanted ITB to pay £350 which was half of the £700 excess Miss R paid. He said 
Miss R only agreed to pay the excess based on the information ITB had given, which hed 
made a point of clarifying at the outset. So he asked us to look at Miss Rs complaint. In 
addition he wants ITB to give feedback to all involved to ensure the error doesnt happen 
again and compensation for the time and stress involved.
Our investigator thought that ITBs apology and compensation award was enough to put 
things right. He thought that in any event Miss R would have made a claim and so the 
excess was always payable. 
Mr F didnt agree. He believes ITB should honour what it told him and refund £350 of the 
excess to Miss R. Hed like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that ITB gave Mr F incorrect information about the excess. And that it 
delayed instructing a solicitor to deal with Miss Rs personal injury claim between May and 
September 2018. Since then, solicitors have been acting separately in pursuing Miss Rs 
uninsured losses. This is correct and in line with the policy Miss R holds with ITB. 
When things go wrong, we look at what a business did to put things right. In this case, Miss 
R made a claim under her policy. So the excess was always payable  and not something 
that Miss R could agree or disagree with paying as a condition of making a claim. 
ITB accepts it made an error. And it caused some delay in instructing a solicitor to deal with 
Miss Rs personal injury claim. I appreciate that Mr F doesnt agree, but I think its apology 
and compensation of £150 is fair and reasonable and in line with awards which we make for 
similar cases. 
I understand Mr F and Miss R will be disappointed. But I think ITB has done enough to 
resolve Miss Rs complaint. So Im not asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman