DRN-1622242
The complaint
Mr C complains about the security questions asked by Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading 
as Tesco Bank) when he called them to discuss his account.
What happened
Mr C has a credit card account with Tesco Bank. He called them in October 2019 to discuss 
his account and was taken through some security questions. As part of those security 
checks, he was asked to provide the last three digits from the back of his credit card (the 
CVV number). He wasnt happy to provide that information as he says it could make him 
vulnerable to fraud by Tesco Banks staff. He says hes been asked for this information on 
multiple phone calls and he thinks Tesco Bank should ask a different security question.
When Mr C complained to Tesco Bank about this, they didnt uphold the complaint. They 
said they ask for the CVV number as part of their security checks, in line with their policy. 
And that, because Mr C wasnt willing to provide this information, they couldnt discuss his 
account over the phone. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Tesco Banks response so he brought his complaint to this service. 
He wants Tesco Bank to ask different security questions, instead of requiring the CVV 
number. He says he cant access the information he needs about his account by going 
online because of Tesco Banks cookie policy. He says that, to use online banking, he would 
have to allow Tesco Bank to place cookies on his device. He doesnt want that. But without 
consenting to the cookies, he cant access online banking. Mr C is also unhappy that Tesco 
Banks final response letter contained an outdated link to this services website. 
Our investigator thought that Tesco Bank had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask 
them to do anything. But Mr C didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that its right for Tesco Bank to have security measures and 
procedures in place to safeguard customers accounts and prevent fraud so far as possible. 
As to exactly what those procedures are and how theyre carried out, thats for Tesco Bank 
to decide. What I need to look at here is whether they followed their procedure correctly and 
fairly.
From the information available to me, I find that Tesco Banks security policy requires 
customers to provide their CVV number in the situation Mr C was asked for it. So Im 
satisfied that the staff Mr C spoke to were following Tesco Banks security policy correctly 
when they asked him for his CVV number.I realise Mr C doesnt think this is an appropriate security question. But its for Tesco Bank 
as a business to decide what information they need from a customer in order to satisfy 
themselves that its safe to discuss account details with that person. And I dont think its 
unreasonable for Tesco Bank to ask for the CVV number in the circumstances their policy 
envisages. So I dont think they acted unfairly by asking Mr C for this information.
As to the online access, its a commercial decision for Tesco Bank as to the technology they 
put in place to enable customers to use their online banking facility. Of course, its for Mr C 
to decide whether he wants to consent to cookies being placed on his device. But I havent 
seen anything which suggests Tesco Banks requirements are unreasonable here. So Im 
not going to ask them to do anything.
As to the outdated link to the Financial Ombudsman Service in Tesco Banks final response 
letter, that is unfortunate. But I dont find that it hampered Mr C in bringing his complaint to 
this service. The key message, that he could refer his complaint to this service, had been 
conveyed to Mr C. And he did so very shortly after receiving Tesco Banks letter.
So, although I realise Mr C feels strongly about his complaint, I dont think Tesco Bank have 
acted unfairly here so Im not going to ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman