DRN-3349880
The complaint
Mr H complains about American International Group UK Limiteds (AIG) handling of a claim 
he made under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H held a gadget insurance policy with AIG. His device developed a fault and he contacted 
AIG to make a claim. The claim was accepted, and AIG sent Mr H a replacement device. 
The following day, Mr H said that he had to contact AIG as the replacement device appeared 
to be faulty and a message was on the device saying that it didnt have genuine parts within 
it. 
AIG said that it advised Mr H that the message would disappear within 28 days and that it 
didnt detract from the functionality of the device. But it was agreed that AIGs technical 
department would contact Mr H within five working days. Mr H said he didnt receive a call.
Following on from this, Mr H contacted AIG to report that the device had now stopped 
working and he wished to raise a complaint with a manager. He was told that a manager 
would contact him within two working days. Shortly after, a member of the technical 
department contacted Mr H and left a message. But Mr H didnt receive the message as it 
was left on an incorrect number. 
Mr H explained that due to the handling of the claim, he had to buy a replacement device, so 
he made a further complaint. He requested that AIG reimburse the cost of the new device 
that he had to purchase due to the delay. In its final response, AIG partially upheld Mr Hs 
complaint. It said that there were service failings for which it apologised. For those failings it 
offered compensation of £65. As to the reimbursement costs sought by Mr H for the new 
device, AIG said that it was unable to reimburse those costs, as during the claims process, it 
had offered Mr H a replacement device, which he declined.
Mr H was given his referral rights and he referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think that it should be upheld. He agreed 
that there were poor service issues during the claims process, but AIG had recognised those 
issues and paid compensation of £65, which he thought was fair.
Our investigator also thought that as AIG confirmed that it hadnt received the faulty device 
back from Mr H , who said he posted it by ordinary mail, Mr H hadnt followed AIGs returns 
process, nor had be taken reasonable caution when returning the device. So, it would be 
unfair to direct AIG to offer a cash settlement. In the circumstances, his view was that there 
was nothing further he could reasonably ask AIG to do, to resolve this complaint. 
AIG accepted the view Mr H did not. He said that he didnt agree with our investigator as he 
had returned the device to AIG and he felt he was being penalised as AIG hadnt received it. 
So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr H, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I have considered the policy terms and conditions and it provides that where a repair is 
required, AIG may carry out those repairs with readily available parts; with refurbished 
products that may contain parts that are a similar or equivalent specification, which may 
include non-original or unbranded parts. 
Mr Hs original device developed a fault and AIG replaced that device with a refurbished 
device, as it was permitted to do under the terms of the policy. So, I cant agree that it was 
unfair or unreasonable for AIG to do just that. But Mr H said that the replaced device initially 
displayed an error message and then stopped working.  
Whilst I can appreciate how frustrating this wouldve been for Mr H, not to have a working 
device, there is no evidence before me that the device was received back at AIG. Or that Mr 
H provided a report from an independent service provider that could detail the fault with the 
device. Consequently, AIG couldnt verify if there had been a fault with the phone. 
Further, the policy terms provide a 24-month warranty and AIG offered to replace the device, 
which, Mr H declined. In the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable or fair for AIG to 
reimburse the costs of the new device that Mr H purchased. This is because, it couldve 
repaired or replaced the device before Mr H decided to purchase a new device, as it had 
offered, given its obligations under the policy. 
Having considered the evidence and the admission from AIG, Im satisfied that there were 
service failings during the claims process. Mr H explained that he found it difficult to get 
through to AIG on the phone, he was promised call backs  which he didnt receive. And AIG 
left messages on an incorrect number, which Mr H also didnt receive. 
For these service failings, AIG apologised and paid £65 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. Ive thought about whether this is fair in the circumstances and I think its is. 
Not only has AIG recognised the poor service, it also apologised for this. Our role isnt to fine 
or to punish the businesses we cover. Rather, we look at the effect on the customer 
including their upset. I can understand that Mr H was frustrated, but Im satisfied that AIG 
took steps to resolve the issue by offering a replacement device, which was ultimately 
declined by Mr H.
Whilst I appreciate that this is not the outcome that Mr H wouldve liked, I do think that AIG 
were fair and reasonable in its payment of compensation of £65. And it was fair and 
reasonable in not reimbursing Mr Hs cost of the new device he bought. So, I cant fairly ask 
it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, American International Group UK Limited has already paid 
£65 compensation to settle the complaint, which I think is fair in all the circumstances.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman