DRN-3013555
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998. It was paid for with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr and Mrs S in case either 
one or both of them was off work sick or lost their job.
I sent Mr and Mrs S and Nationwide a provisional decision on 14 July 2021, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Mr and Mrs Ss PPI policy was mis-sold here, and Ill 
explain why.
Mr S was not working at the time and so wasnt eligible for the policy. This means the policy 
wasnt of any use to him and it wasnt appropriate for Nationwide to sell it to him. Nationwide 
has already accepted this, and it has refunded the proportion of the PPI premiums that were 
for his cover.
Mrs S was eligible for the cover. However, I think her portion of the policy was still most likely 
mis-sold, too.
Nationwide had to give Mr and Mrs S information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading. But based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied that Nationwide gave them clear 
enough information about the policys terms for unemployment.
I think this wouldve mattered for Mrs S. At the point of sale, shed only been in her role for 5 
months, and had had a gap of three weeks between her current job and the previous one. 
And before Mrs S could first claim for unemployment, she had to have been in full-time 
employment for a UK employer for 12 months immediately before the claim.
The policy document does not appear to define how continuous those 12 months have to be. 
The default approach would be that any gaps of working days between jobs would mean 
they were no longer continuous  in which case Mrs Ss three-week gap would mean that 
her previous job could not help make up the 12 months needed. Some policies allowed gaps 
of up to two weeks between jobs to count ones employment as continuous. This policy does 
not specifically do so, but even if we assume the insurer wouldve allowed such a gap then 
three weeks was still too long.
So it looks like Mrs S couldnt claim on the policy for the first 7 months. And thats a very 
significant period to not be covered for  it was the bulk of the first year of cover, and was 
longer than Mrs S had even been at her current job so far.
Given that Mrs S had only recently started her job, there wasnt any reasonable guarantee 
that shed be there for 7 more months  she was at the least stable part of her tenure and 
was potentially at a higher risk of being let go. Yet in the meantime, shed be paying for a 
PPI policy that didnt protect her if she lost her job in the foreseeable future. 
I havent seen anything to satisfy me that Nationwide made the unemployment terms 
sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs S at the point of sale. And if it had done so, I think its most 
likely that Mrs S would not have wanted the policy. So I think Nationwide should refund 
Mrs Ss cover as well as Mr Ss. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
11 August 2021. We also granted an extension until 23 August 2021. But neither 
Nationwide nor Mr and Mrs S sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that this policy was mis-sold.
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society needs to put Mr and Mrs S in the position theyd be in now if 
they hadnt taken out PPI. That means the policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been 
cancelled already, and Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S back the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr or Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
Of course, Nationwide can take off any partial refund it has already paid, to make sure it 
does not refund the same amounts twice over.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to put things right 
in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman