DRN-3985480
The complaint
Ms R complains that Chetwood Financial Limited (Chetwood) are unfairly holding her liable 
for two loans that were taken out in her name as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Ms R fell victim to an investment scam in April 2022 after she 
was contacted by a broker Terra Markets (the scammer). 
She was encouraged to invest, and accounts were opened in her name with several 
cryptocurrency platforms and electronic money institutions such as Wise and Revolut, which 
she was told were needed for trading. Ms R then made several payments from her bank 
accounts to her Wise and Revolut accounts. The funds were then transferred on again to the 
scammer.
As part of the scam, Ms R says that the brokers applied for loans on her behalf from several 
lenders, including two £12,000 loans with Chetwood (through its trading names of LiveLend 
and BetterBorrow). Ms R said she objected to the loans being taken out but felt that she 
didnt have a choice. Ms R started to cancel some of the loans she had received emails 
about, but the two Chetwood loans were paid into her account, where the proceeds were 
subsequently transferred to the scammers. 
Ms R reported the fraud to Chetwood after she realised shed been scammed. It said that 
she wouldnt be bound by the credit agreement given she said she didnt have any 
knowledge of its terms. But as the loans were applied for using information she had given to 
the scammers  and because she had received the funds  it said she would still be liable to 
repay the loan capital. Unhappy with this, Ms R referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied Ms R was aware that a loan 
was being taken out on her behalf, so he didnt think it was unfair for her to be held liable for 
repaying it. Ms R disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
As part of the scam, Ms R says the fraudster took out several loans in her name on her 
device via remote access software. This included the two £12,000 loans taken out through 
Chetwood and Ms R is unhappy that shes being held liable for this debt. Ive therefore 
considered whether its fair and reasonable for Chetwood to expect her to pay this back, or if 
it should write the debt off. 
Section 83 of the CCA 1974 sets out that a person wont be held liable for a debt if it was 
taken out by another person who wasnt acting as their agent. So, Ive considered the extent 
to which Ms R was involved in the loan application with Chetwood, and whether she ought 
reasonably to have known that she had received the proceeds of a loan into her account. 
When the loan was being applied for, Ms R says her screen was moving very quickly, and 
that she couldnt keep up with what the scammer was doing on her computer. However, she 
was nonetheless aware they were taking out a loan in her name, and says she also gave 
information for them to be able to complete the loan application, as she was concerned she 
would lose her investment profits if she didnt cooperate. She says she was also told that the 
company would pay the interest and charges of the loans. 
I understand Ms R thought she could cancel the loans later, which for some she was able to 
do so. But it appears she didnt stop the scammer from applying for the Chetwood loans on 
her behalf, so I dont think it could reasonably be said that she didnt consent to it. Therefore, 
Im not persuaded Section 83 of the CCA 1974 would have the effect of absolving Ms R of 
any liability for the debt in such circumstances, as the scammer can effectively be treated as 
having acted as her agent. 
Ms R says that she didnt receive any correspondence regarding the loan application or any 
cooling off period before receiving the funds, and Chetwood has said that it will not seek to 
enforce the credit agreement as a result (such as charging interest), which I think is a fair 
offer. However, Im aware that Ms R was aware of all other loans taken out in her name 
(including how much they were for) when she spoke to her banks about them. And having 
taken everything into account, Im satisfied she was likely aware of the loans taken out with 
Chetwood as well. Indeed, she said she was surprised at how quickly the funds were paid 
into her account, so she ought reasonably to have known that this money from Chetwood 
was the proceeds of the loans, which she would need to pay back.
However, Ms R didnt take any action to return the funds to Chetwood and instead 
transferred the loan proceeds to another account, where they were subsequently lost to the 
scammer. Im also satisfied Chetwood undertook reasonable credit checks to ensure the 
loan was affordable for Ms R at the time it was applied for. As a result, I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to ask Chetwood to write off the debit in these circumstances, and Im 
satisfied it hasnt acted unfairly by asking her to repay the capital. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms R, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Chetwood has acted 
unfairly in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman