DRN-4366870
The complaint
Mr O complains that BUPA Insurance Limited (Bupa) refused to reinstate his private 
medical insurance policy after it had lapsed. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Its clear that Mr O didnt intend for his policy to lapse. Hed changed banks and there 
was a problem with the transfer which meant his direct debit to Bupa went unpaid. 
After Mr O received a letter from Bupa advising him that his cover had ended, Mr O 
called Bupa (on 6 December) to explain hed changed banks and requested that his 
policy be reinstated. If Bupa had done so during that call, the policy would have been 
reinstated. However, Bupa wasnt able to do this at the time and advised Mr O that 
someone would call him back. 
Bupa didnt call Mr O back for around a week. I see that it called him on two 
occasions (on 12 and 15 December) but didnt get through to him. Bupas notes from 
the time say that voicemails were left for him, and also that text messages were sent.
Mr O doesnt recall receiving any calls or texts. But he says he called Bupa a second 
time when he didnt hear from it, and was again told he would receive a call back 
about the reinstatement. And so he didnt chase this again until the following March, 
which was unfortunately just outside Bupas three-month reinstatement period. Mr O 
has provided his phone bill which shows that he called Bupa on 20 December. 
Overall, I think Bupa took appropriate steps when it called Mr O back on two 
occasions. However, Mr O has shown that he called Bupa after this, which supports 
what Mr O has said  that he called Bupa a second time to reinstate his policy and 
was told to wait for a call back. I cant be certain what was discussed in that call 
because Bupa doesnt have a record of this. But I see no reason to doubt what Mr O 
has said, particularly given that he was in the middle of medical treatment at the time 
and so it was important to him that his policy continued.
So in these circumstances, I find that Bupa should reinstate the policy (subject to 
Mr O paying the backdated premiums). Bupa can then consider any claims for 
medical treatment. 
Mr O says he wants compensation for leaving his job due to the stress the matter has 
caused him. However, I havent seen any evidence that Bupas actions have affected 
his mental health to such an extent that he couldnt work. Though I accept that he 
was caused unnecessary upset and worry. He had private treatment and was worried 
about how he was going to be able to pay for this (and was chased for payment by 
the provider). I agree with our investigator that Bupa should pay Mr O £200 
compensation to recognise the impact he was caused by the matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA Insurance Limited to 
reinstate the policy, subject to Mr O paying the backdated premiums. Mr O can then submit 
his claims for treatment that has taken place since the policy lapsed. I also require Bupa to 
pay Mr O £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman