DRN-3927328
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a payment he made for goods using his 
credit card.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr R purchased some machinery online using his Santander credit card. The 
cost of the machinery was £279.98. Around two months later the machinery stopped working 
and Mr R asked the seller to arrange a repair or a replacement. The seller told Mr R that the 
machinery had no warranty and no repair or replacement would be offered. Mr R then 
approached Santander for help in getting his money back.
When Santander received Mr Rs refund request, it said that he was out of time for them to 
attempt a chargeback through the card scheme. However, it said it would consider his claim 
for a refund under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) instead. After 
reviewing the claim, Santander said that the required debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s") 
agreement wasnt in place for a section 75 claim to succeed.
I sent Santander and Mr R my provisional decision on 4 January 2023. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said:
The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) was that if 
Mr R had a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the seller of the 
machinery, he could bring a like claim against Santander, provided certain conditions 
were met. 
One of those conditions was there needed to be a debtor-creditor-suppler (d-c-s) 
agreement in place. Our investigator who initially considered the complaint had 
explained why they thought there was a d-c-s agreement in place and Santander 
hadnt contested that analysis. I also considered there to be a d-c-s agreement in 
place. 
I was satisfied that the machinery Mr R had purchased wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
This is because it had failed after a little over two months and Mr R had provided 
persuasive evidence to demonstrate that the cause of the failure was mechanical and 
premature and unlikely to have been caused by user error.
I said that as I was satisfied there had likely been a breach of contract by the supplier 
for which Santander could be jointly responsible for, it had therefore acted unfairly in 
declining Mr Rs claim and subsequent complaint. As a repair or replacement didnt 
appear possible, I said Santander should collect the machinery from Mr R at no cost 
to him and refund the amount he paid, adding 8% simple interest per year to that 
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement. I also thought Santander 
should pay a further £100 compensation for the upset and inconvenience it caused in 
the poor way it dealt with Mr Rs requests for a refund. 
Mr R accepted that outcome, but Santander didnt. In summary, it said the platform which 
Mr R used to make the purchase from the seller had specific terms and conditions around 
returns for items purchased and also operates a money back guarantee. It said these terms 
say that sellers are entitled to decline a request to return items after a certain period of time. 
It said Mr R hadnt demonstrated hed requested a refund from the platform and it wasnt 
clear why he hadnt done that. Further, it said that Mr R hadnt shown the machinery he 
purchased was sold as new and not used, as this would have a material impact on whether it 
was reasonable to expect it to fail when it did. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether or not the platform the seller used to sell the machinery had its own guarantee and 
terms and conditions is largely irrelevant, as is whether Mr R approached them first to 
request a refund. This is because section 75 doesnt require Mr R to approach the seller first, 
and, in any event, the platform wasnt the seller. 
The platforms terms and conditions or guarantees dont impact on whether the seller itself 
had breached its contract with Mr R, which included implied terms about providing goods of 
satisfactory quality. The platform may have offered Mr R a possible alternative route to seek 
redress, but whether Mr R chose to utilise it or not, doesnt impact whether he could make a 
successful claim under section 75 against Santander.  
Mr R did, however, reach out to the seller first and as Santander is aware, it declined his 
request for a repair, replacement or refund. The issue for me to consider therefore is 
whether Santander treated Mr R fairly when it declined his claim and complaint. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the machinery failed prematurely 
because of an inherent mechanical defect. Mr R has supplied persuasive evidence to 
demonstrate that the part that failed ought to have lasted many years under normal 
operating conditions and was housed inside a sealed unit that would have required 
disassembly to gain access to. It seems most likely therefore that the part that failed wasnt 
sufficiently durable and failed prematurely. The machinery wasnt therefore of satisfactory 
quality and this was a breach of contract. 
Santander says that Mr R hadnt demonstrated the machinery was sold as new. Mr R has 
now provided evidence that it was sold as a new item and therefore I dont see any reason to 
reach a different conclusion as to whether there was a breach of contract. Neither party has 
made any specific comments in relation to the redress I proposed to put things right, 
including the compensation for the poor way Santander dealt with Mr Rs request for a 
refund. Im therefore satisfied that is a fair way to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to:
Refund £279.98 representing the cost of the machinery, adding 8% simple interest 
per year on that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Collect the machinery at no cost to Mr R. 
Pay Mr R £100 compensation for the inconvenience and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman