DRN-4198809
The complaint
Company M complains that ClearBank Limited (trading as Tide) wont refund £12,380.92 it 
lost as part of a safe-account scam in April 2022.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons. 
It isnt in dispute that M has fallen victim to a scam here, nor that it authorised the 
disputed payment it made to the scammer from its Tide account. The payment was 
requested by M using its legitimate security credentials provided by Tide, and the starting 
position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by its customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Tide should have done more to prevent M from falling 
victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably have 
had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if 
it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that M has lost over £12,000, which is a significant amount of money. But I 
can see from Ms account statements that it was not unusual for it to make large 
payments for over £10,000. Indeed, the month before the disputed payment was made, 
there were five payments totaling £50,000 made to a new payee all on the same day. 
So, a payment of around £12,000 being made to another new payee the following month 
would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared with 
Ms spending history. 
I appreciate that the disputed payment was made to a new payee and almost drained the 
account. However, as Ive set out above, Ms account history shows that it was not 
unusual for it to make payments to new payees from its company account. Indeed, it had 
made payments to nearly 30 new payees between February 2021 and April 2022. And in 
the context of this being a company account that had made large payments to new 
payees in the past, Im not persuaded the transaction for £12,380.92 ought to have been 
regarded as suspicious. I dont think there was anything that ought reasonably to have 
triggered Tides fraud monitoring systems, or that would have indicated M was in the 
process of being scammed. So, I dont consider there was any obligation on it to have 
intervened in the payment being made. 
Ive also thought about whether Tide could have done more to recover the money after M 
reported the fraud. I can see that Tide contacted the beneficiary bank the following day, 
where it was told that no funds remained. The receiving bank also informed Tide that the 
funds had been removed from the account within around five minutes of it being 
deposited. So, I dont think Tide couldve done anything further to recover the funds 
either in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman