DRN-3339220
The complaint
Miss P has complained that HSBC Life (UK) Limited has unfairly declined her income 
protection insurance claim.
What happened
Miss P has a group income protection insurance policy through her employer, underwritten 
by HSBC Life. This pays a benefit if Miss P is unable to work due to illness or injury for a 
deferred (waiting) period of 26 weeks.
In June 2019, Miss P was due to return to work after maternity leave but became absent and 
was diagnosed with depression. HSBC Life was notified of the claim in December 2019. It 
arranged support for Miss P in 2020 and ultimately declined her claim as it didnt think she 
met the policy definition of incapacity. In addition, it said the late notification of absence had 
prejudiced its position and it didnt think Miss P had complied with her obligations as a 
member under the terms of the policy. 
Miss P complained to HSBC Life and unhappy with its response, referred her complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think HSBC Life had unfairly declined 
Miss Ps claim. 
Miss P disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
She was never given any policy documents so wasnt aware of her obligations.
Her employer was responsible for the claim notification.
She was very unwell and didnt find some of the appointments helpful. She said she 
suffered a deterioration in her mental health in December 2019 and did whatever she 
could to get support for herself. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator.
Our investigator has detailed the relevant policy terms and background in some detail. I 
wont repeat everything here but will instead focus on what I consider to be key to my 
decision. 
The relevant industry rules and guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows:
the Member is unable, by reason of illness or injury, to perform the Material and 
Substantial duties of his own Occupation and is not following any other Occupation.
For Miss P to be eligible for payment of benefit under the policy terms, the onus is on her to 
show that she meets the definition of incapacity, through medical evidence.
Ive considered the relevant, available medical evidence which Ill summarise here:
In August 2019, Miss P reported low mood to her GP and confirmed she would 
engage with talking therapies 
Miss P attended talking therapies in 2019
Miss P reported a significant improvement in her symptoms by December 2019. She 
reported severe symptoms pre-treatment and mild symptoms post-treatment.
In February 2020, Miss Ps GP wrote a letter to say her diagnosis was depression, 
she was taking medication and self-referred to cognitive behavioural therapy in 2019 
and had six sessions. She would also be starting further treatment in March. The GP 
said Miss P would need a review to assess her current symptoms and function 
before any recommendations on prognosis or return to work could be made.
Occupational health report dated 2020 which recommends ongoing monitoring - this 
confirms Miss P didnt have a plan to return to work and that her priority was health 
and family. She also said she didnt think she would be able to return to a high-
pressured role. She did want to return to work but wasnt sure of time frames.
HSBC Life said Miss Ps claim was notified late and that she failed to meet her 
responsibilities as set out in the terms and conditions. It said that had it been informed of 
Miss Ps absence at an earlier stage, it would have had the opportunity to intervene and 
support a return to work including a rehabilitation plan, given the improvements Miss P had 
made through talking therapy.
In addition, HSBC Life said it had asked Miss P to speak to a provider to assist her recovery 
and return to work but she didnt return calls. It attempted to contact her in April and May 
2020 and a number of times in June, July and August 2020. HSBC Life didnt think Miss P 
had made a reasonable effort to engage with the support it had arranged for her.
Having considered all of the above, I dont think HSBC Life has unfairly declined Miss Ps 
claim. I dont think the medical evidence demonstrates that Miss P is incapacitated. I note 
Miss P says she relapsed in December 2019 but there is very little evidence in her GP 
records to show that she returned to her GP and discussed her deterioration. The GP hasnt 
commented on Miss Ps function at the time so there is no evidence that she was unable to 
carry out the material and substantial duties of her role. And the occupational health report is 
based on Miss Ps self-reporting with little further explanation of why she couldnt perform 
the material and substantial duties of her role.
I accept that Miss P was diagnosed with depression but that isnt the test. The test is 
whether Miss Ps depression would render her unable to complete the material and 
substantial duties of her role and this would need to be demonstrated through medical 
evidence. Miss P says she wasnt given any policy documents but this is something she will need to 
take up with her employer. The same applies to the late notification of her claim. I note Miss 
P says she was very unwell and didnt find talking at some of the appointments helpful but 
the policy clearly sets out a members responsibility and attending appointments arranged by 
HSBC Life is a requirement which I dont think is unreasonable. 
I note and accept what Miss P says and Im sorry to hear of the difficult time she has been 
through. But even without the late notification and member responsibility requirements, I 
dont think there is sufficient medical evidence of incapacity and so I cant fairly ask HSBC 
Life to pay her claim. 
Overall, I dont think HSBC Lifes reasons for declining Miss Ps claim are unfair or 
unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman