DRN-3258347
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its account and delayed 
sending it a cheque for the balance.
What happened
HSBC says that it asked S for information about its business as part of a safeguard review. 
S didnt meet its requirements and was given notice of the closure of the account. HSBC 
accepted that there was a delay in sending the closing balance by cheque to S. It offered S 
£150 when it issued a final response to the complaint. S referred the complaint to this 
service and after that HSBC said it would increase its offer to £250.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything more. She set out details of the 
letters HSBC had shown it issued to S about the safeguard exercise. It had told S that the 
account would be closed on 31 May 2021. But it had then extended this to 3 July 2021. It 
said that it had still needed information about the company structure and had tried to call S 
about this on 11 June 2021. And despite S contacting it after the date the account was 
restricted HSBC didnt send a cheque with the balance until 12 August 2021. She 
considered that the amount of compensation was fair taking into account that S reasonably 
knew the account was going to be closed.
S didnt agree and wanted the complaint reviewed. It said that the account was restricted 
from 2 July 2021 and it expected to receive the money from the account within ten days. 
This hadnt happened. On 20 July 2021 when it contacted HSBC it was asked whether it 
wanted the account closed. It made a number of attempts to chase this up and a response to 
the complaint and the cheque itself werent sent as promised. It received the cheque on 23 
August 2021. S said that it had completed the requirements and that this had a significant 
effect on a small business. S didnt accept £250 was sufficient compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC initially wrote to S in December 2020 about the safeguard exercise. It stated that it 
needed to make sure it had the correct information about S to help guard against fraud and 
financial crime. It set out the requirements to do this and sent follow up letters. In March 
2021 it said that if this wasnt provided it would close the account. It gave the notice to close 
the account required under the terms and conditions. S did respond but there were 
outstanding questions. As set out above the deadline for closure was extended but the 
missing information wasnt provided. This was despite the letter of 4 June 2021 sent to S 
and HSBC says it attempted to call S about this.
There is some discrepancy as to when the account was restricted but I accept as most likely 
that S couldnt use it from 2 July 2021 as set out in the letter from HSBC. And that it had 
followed this up and nothing seemed to have been done by 20 July 2021 to send its money. 
HSBC has provided a letter dated 12 August 2021 saying that the cheque (which I 
understand from other information was over £13,000) had been sent. I cant account for the 
time in the postal system it might have taken to reach S after this date.
Im afraid I think S was on notice that the account was going to be closed. And I dont 
consider that HSBCs requirements were an unreasonable way of helping ensure it complied 
with regulatory requirements and knew its customer. So, I think that S had the opportunity to 
make arrangements for alternative banking and to access its money. S has explained that its 
directors did access personal resources to assist with making payments.
But I agree in any event that S should have received the balance in the account more 
quickly. This caused inconvenience to S and included the time of its director being diverted 
from the busines. As S is a separate legal entity that cant suffer distress I can only look at 
the impact on it here.
Having done so I think that the now increased offer from HSBC is reasonable taking into 
account what happened. I know S will be disappointed when I say that I wont be requiring 
HSBC to pay more than this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay S £250 as 
it has now offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman