DRN-3101886
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as J, is unhappy with a series of fees for services it 
believes The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unreasonably compelled it to instruct. J is 
also unhappy that RBS forced it to sell a property asset at a time when market conditions 
were particularly unfavourable.
What happened
J was a construction company. In 1997 it entered into a contract to purchase 75 acres of 
land for a fee of £1.4m. RBS provided J with a loan to fund the deposit for the site and a 
further loan to pay for associated fees totalling £1m. However, by 2005 the purchase of the 
site had not completed, and the seller claimed that the price of the land had increased.
In 2006, J purchased a warehouse building for approximately £2.1m. RBS provided J with a 
loan for £1.2m over a 15-year term to facilitate the purchase of the warehouse, along with a 
£895,000 bridging loan.
In 2007, RBS provided J with a loan of £1.9m to allow J to restructure lending it held with 
another bank which had been taken to fund the development of two other properties and so 
that J could also repay some other loans that it held at that time.
In 2008, following some legal action, J agreed to a renegotiation of the land purchase 
agreement it had made in 1997 and agreed to purchase 24 acres of land at the site for 
approximately £1.1m.
In 2009, after RBS appointed a new relationship manager and a security review was carried 
out, it was found that the bank didnt hold a charge over the 24 acres to support the lending it 
had already provided to J. This was because legal proceedings were still ongoing, and the 
purchase of the land had not been completed.
Because of this, RBS wrote to J in order to restructure the loans that J already held so that 
the borrowing was held on a shorter term. RBS also gave J a further loan of £600,000 to 
allow J to repay an overdraft and requested that one of Js directors provide a personal 
guarantee to RBS of £250,000. These agreements were finalised at the end of April 2009, 
with the term of the restructured loans expiring in September 2009.
In September 2009, the restructured loans agreed in April 2009 reached the end of their 
term without being repaid. At this point the loans were in default and RBS could now require 
the loans to be repaid.
Js account was transferred to RBSs Global Restructuring Group (GRG) in October 2009, 
and the bank held a handover meeting with J in November 2009.
In 2011, Js appointed valuers sent a summary of Js assets and liabilities to Js solicitor 
which set out that there was an approximately £1.2m deficit between assets and liabilities. 
Following this, J instructed a company to provide it with insolvency and restructuring advice. 
In 2012, RBS was provided with a debt restructuring plan by J which detailed that J wouldnt 
be able to meet the loan repayments that would be due over the coming year. The plan also 
detailed that it would be necessary for several of Js properties to be sold, with there being 
an option for Js directors to purchase Js properties if funding could be raised. 
J submitted a second debt reduction proposal to RBS later in 2012. This included that the 
warehouse property be retained, as it was leased and profitable, and that the outstanding 
lending be repaid through rental income from the warehouse as well as from the sale of Js 
other properties. This proposal also included that any balance still outstanding after the sale 
of Js other properties would be written off by the bank.
RBS rejected the second proposal put forwards by J and put forward an alternative plan 
which involved selling all of Js assets, including the warehouse. RBSs proposal entailed 
that all of Js property assets should be placed on the market for sale by 5 October 2012. 
This proposal was ultimately agreed to by J.
In January 2013, RBS learned that the warehouse hadnt been placed on the market for 
sale. The warehouse was placed on the open market in December 2013. Around the same 
time, the personal guarantee given by one of Js directors was reduced from £250,000 to 
£200,000.
In early 2014 several offers had been received for the warehouse. The highest offer was 
accepted and the net sale proceeds of around £1.4m were paid to RBS.
In April 2014, the management of Js account was transferred out of GRG, and RBS and J 
came to an agreed repayment plan. A further debt reduction plan was put forward by Js 
accountant in December 2014. Finally, RBS made the decision to write off approximately 
£2.5m of Js outstanding debt.
In 2018, J raised a complaint with RBS as it wasnt happy with how its account had been 
managed by the GRG. RBS looked at Js complaint, but it didnt feel that it had acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in how it had managed Js account at that time, so it didnt uphold the 
complaint.
J appealed the decision of RBS not to uphold its complaint, and because of this Js 
complaint was subject to an Independent Third Party (ITP) review. However, the ITP also 
didnt feel that RBS had acted unfairly towards J in how its GRG had managed Js business 
relationship, and so it also didnt uphold Js complaint.
J wasnt satisfied by the ITPs review, so it referred its complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that RBS had managed Js 
account unreasonably whist the account had been managed by the GRG, so they also didnt 
uphold Js complaint.
J remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J has stated that it was unreasonably and unnecessarily compelled by the GRG to undertake 
a series of professional services for which it was charged fees totalling approximately 
£57,000. These include fees for insolvency and debt restructuring advice, accountancy fees, 
solicitor fees, property valuation fees, and fees for financial advice. J has provided the testimony of one of its directors who confirms that his recollection of the meetings he had 
with the GRG are that J were given no choice by RBS and had to instruct the services listed 
such that fees totalling approximately £57,000 were incurred.
Id like to thank Js director for providing his recollection of events. However, RBSs position 
on this matter is that, while there were occasions where it suggested to J that professional 
services should be sought, it never compelled J to undertake such services and that the 
decision of whether to instruct a service, and who to instruct, was Js to take. 
In circumstances such as this, where one partys recollection of events is at odds with what 
another party recalls, this service would look to the available documentary evidence to seek 
to corroborate, as much as possible, what took place. In this instance, to seek to confirm Js 
version of events, Ive looked for any documented instances of J being told by RBS that it 
had to instruct a particular service unreasonably and unnecessarily. However, having 
reviewed all the information and evidence available to me, Ive been unable to find any 
evidence that RBS did insist that J undertake a service in the manner that J alleges here.
For instance, the largest fee that J incurred was for insolvency and debt restructuring advice. 
I note that RBS did recommend that J seek such professional advice. But given the status of 
Js asset and liability deficit at that time, it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that RBS would 
make this recommendation. And Im also satisfied from the information available to me that it 
was a recommendation, and I havent seen any evidence to suggest that RBS made any 
stronger form insistence that J had to receive debt restructuring advice, beyond it being a 
recommendation.
It also must be noted that the company that J instructed to provide debt restructuring advice 
had been used previously by J as its company auditor, and it therefore seems reasonable to 
me that J would want to use that company to provide any debt restructuring advice it was 
seeking. And there doesnt appear to be any evidence to suggest that J were compelled by 
RBS to use that specific company for the provision of debt restructuring advice.
Of course, I wasnt present at any face to face meetings or telephone conversations that 
may have taken place between J and RBS, but there is nothing in the documentary evidence 
on which I have to rely which gives me any reason to conclude that RBS did insist 
unreasonably and unnecessarily that J instruct a professional service and thus incur fees 
unfairly. And this includes fees for such things as property valuations, solicitors, and 
accountants, which I would expect J to have incurred reasonably because of its financial 
position at that time.
J has also expressed dissatisfaction that RBS insisted on the sale of the warehouse property 
at a time when property prices were low and as such that it lost out on the rental income that 
would have been received had J retained the asset as it proposed.
I can appreciate why J might be unhappy that RBS insisted that the warehouse be sold. 
However, given that J had defaulted on the loan agreements it held with RBS, and given that 
RBS held a charge over the warehouse property as security for the loan agreements that 
were in default, I cant reasonably conclude that RBS acted unfairly by seeking to recover its 
losses by insisting on the encashment of that asset, regardless of the state of the property 
market at that time. And this is especially the case given that RBS allowed the loans to 
persist in default for several years, and gave J time to find alternative solutions, before 
insisting on the sale of the warehouse property - as RBS were within their rights to do.
Finally, J have complained that RBS failed to honour an agreement to reduce the personal 
liability of one of its directors. However, I dont feel that this aspect of Js complaint is one 
which this service has the remit to consider. In the first instance, this is because this complaint has been brought to this service by J, the 
limited company, but this aspect of the complaint refers to a personal guarantee given by 
one of Js directors. As such this is a personal complaint of that director, rather than a 
complaint that can be made by J as a company.
Secondly, while from 1 April 2019, the powers of the Financial Ombudsman Service were 
extended to make more complainants eligible for this service, and while this extension of 
powers included complaints about personal guarantees, this extension of powers wasnt 
applied retrospectively, which means that the extension of powers only applies regarding 
events that took place after that date. 
And, given that the director of J is complaining about events that took place before 1 April 
2019, this means that the extension of powers doesnt apply here which in turn means that 
Im satisfied that the director of J wouldnt be considered as being an eligible complainant in 
this instance. 
The rules by which this service must abide can be found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. One of these rules sets out 
who is eligible to refer complaints to this service. The only type of complainant I feel it 
relevant in this instance is that of consumer, which is defined in DISP as an individual 
acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that individuals trade, business, craft, 
or profession.
But in this instance that director of J was providing a personal liability precisely because of 
his status as a director of J, and therefore wasnt mainly outside his business, which means 
that Im satisfied that the director doesnt meet the definition of consumer referred to above. 
And, given that Im also satisfied that none of the other categories of eligible complainant 
described in DISP apply here, and that the events being complained about occurred before 
the extension of powers on 1 April 2019, as mentioned previously, I can only conclude that 
the director of J isnt an eligible complainant here and therefore that this aspect of Js 
complaint cant be considered by this service. 
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that RBS has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards J here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing RBS to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that J was wanting here, but I trust that it will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman