DRN-3037573
The complaint
Mr M complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his account and wont return 
money paid into the account to him. He wants the money released to him and compensation.
What happened
Mr M had a Pockit account. In April 2020, Pockit blocked Mr Ms account while they carried 
out a review after it had received notification from another bank about some money which 
had been paid into Mr Ms account. At the time the balance of Mr Ms account was just over 
£114.
Mr M contacted Pockit to try and find out what was happening with his account. Pockit 
explained to Mr M that under the terms and conditions of his account it was entitled to review 
a customers account and ask him for information. And it wasnt obliged to give him a 
timeframe for how long the review could take. 
On 24 April 2020, Pockit told Mr M that it needed to see proof of his address, some 
identification and information about how he was using his account. In July 2020, Mr M says 
Pockit asked him about some payments hed received  into his account in return for some 
collectable coins hed sold. Mr M says he sent Pockit all the information it requested. But he 
never heard anything back.
Mr M sent Pockit several emails and made calls to try and find out what was happening. And 
what he needed to do (if anything) to gain access to the money in his account. Mr M says 
Pockit were unhelpful and told him hed need to contact the people whod paid the money 
into his account if he wanted it returned.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms 
complaint. On 11 August 2021, to help decide whether Pockit had treated Mr M fairly, the 
investigator asked Pockit for some more information about its review of Mr Ms account  
she asked why it had taken Pockit so long to complete its review, what had prompted the 
review in the first place and what information Mr M had provided about his entitlement to the 
money in his account. And why it had decided to return the money paid into Mr Ms account 
to the source. But Pockit didnt respond.
 
On 12 August 2021, Mr M received an email from Pockit which said it would return Mr Ms 
funds back to source within 10 days  in other words it would send the money back to the 
senders. Mr M was confused, as he hadnt provided Pockit with any of his bank account 
details. And he hadnt received any refunds from Pockit. The investigator contacted Pockit to 
find out more. And asked Pockit to hold fire on returning the funds until shed had a chance 
to look at whether this was the right thing to do. Pockit responded and said it had already 
returned the funds to source on 5 July 2021.
 
The investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. She was satisfied Pockit could review Mr Ms 
account and ask for information  but based on the limited information Pockit had provided 
she wasnt able to say Pockit had carried out a thorough or timely investigation to show that 
that Mr M wasnt entitled to the money in his account and had treated Mr M fairly when it had 
sent the money back to source. So, she said Pockit should return the full balance to Mr M 
along with interest for loss of use of the funds. And pay him £75 compensation for the 
trouble and upset hed been caused. The investigator said shed reconsider her view if 
Pockit provided further information.
 
Mr M agreed. Pockit didnt respond. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Pockit has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means they need 
to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
And ask for information about payments made into an account. 
However, while Pockit are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Pockit initially blocked Mr Ms account in April 2020.  
I can see that Pockit asked Mr M to provide it with information in mid-April 2020 and July 
2020. But I havent seen any evidence to show what actions Pockit took during the review 
after Mr M provided the information it had requested. I note too that Pockit didnt reach out to 
Mr M following its initial contact until July 2020, which was two months after it had restricted 
Mr Ms account. And from looking at the timeline Pockit has provided it appears nothing 
further was done to move things forward until August 2021 when it emailed Mr M about what 
it had done with the money in his account.
Despite being asked by the investigator, Pockit hasnt offered any explanation for why its 
review of Mr Ms account took around sixteen months to complete. I note from the limited 
information Pockit has provided that Mr M appears to have complied with its requests for 
information relatively promptly. And he sent Pockit information in April and July 2020. 
Unfortunately, Pockit havent told us what information Mr M provided, so I cant say that the 
time taken was as a result of Mr M not giving Pockit what it wanted. So, in the absence of 
any explanation from Pockit, Im not satisfied Pockit completed its review in a timely manner 
and treated Mr M fairly. 
Mr M says Pockit asked him about some collectable coins hed sold. And says he sent them 
evidence that hed posted some coins hed sold in the post to the person whod bought them. 
It appears that Pockit werent satisfied with Mr Ms explanation. And decided that Mr M 
wasnt entitled to the money which had been paid into his bank account. And returned the 
money to the senders. Pockit hasnt provided this service with the information it relied on to 
take this action such as the report it had received from the third party bank. It also hasnt 
provided any evidence to show what investigation it conducted to satisfy itself that Mr M 
wasnt entitled to the money, for example that this wasnt simply a buyer/seller dispute, a 
miusunderstanding or a false claim against Mr M. 
In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, Im not satisfied that Pockit carried out a 
thorough enough review on Mr Ms account to make the decision they did. Ultimately, Pockit 
should be satisfied that Mr M wasnt entitled to the money to return it back to the original 
senders. And as theyve not provided any evidence to support the actions it took, I dont find 
any plausible explanation as to how Pockit satisfied themselves that Mr M wasnt entitled to the funds in his account. So, in this particular case, because of the lack of information, I cant 
be satisfied that Pockit has treated Mr M fairly and reasonably. It therefore follows that Pockit 
should refund Mr M the balance of his account, which according to Mr Ms account 
statements at the time was £114.20. 
 
Finally, having looked at what Mr M has told us about how the review affected him, I do think 
that Mr M was caused some distress and inconvenience. I can see that he chased Pockit on 
more than one occasion trying to get access to his money and find out what was happening 
with his account. I can see that he spent time sending several emails and made more than 
one call to Pockit. But I cant see Pockit provided Mr M with any meaningful responses. So, 
Im satisfied this caused Mr M inconvenience. I note too that Mr M has been without his 
funds for well over a year. So, I consider £75 compensation to be fair in the circumstances 
along with intertest for loss of use of his funds.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. To put things right Wirecard Card 
Solutions Limited should:
Refund Mr M the amount of money in his account at the time the account was 
restricted - £114.22 
Pay Mr M £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to 
complete its review and failing to keep Mr M updated
Calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they refund Mr M. They 
should calculate this from April 2020 to the date they refund Mr M.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to withhold 
income tax from the above-mentioned interest. Wirecard should give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much is taken off if Mr M asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman