DRN-2663382
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) handled an 
application for finance for a new car. 
What happened
Mr A has explained that, in around February 2019, he was looking for a new car, as his
existing finance arrangement was about to come to an end. He found the model he wanted
and placed an order through a company he controls. The car would take a few months to
arrive, as it was new and would be built to Mr As specification. Mr A extended his existing
finance arrangement until July 2019.
Mr A says however that the dealership suggested that, rather than taking the car through a
company, Mr A should take it in his own name. The company was relatively new and did not
have a long enough history of trading to support an application for finance.
BMWFS however asked that an individual application for finance be supported by further
documents showing Mr As income. Because he was recently self-employed though, his
accountant was unable to provide the documents that BMWFS had requested. His
application was declined. He wasnt made aware of this until the new car had arrived in the
UK, some months later. He was unable to make alternative arrangements at short notice.
Mr A has explained the impact this had on him. He was unable to take a family holiday
abroad, visit all his business premises or entertain clients without making other
arrangements. He relied heavily on a car for his business.
Mr A says he applied for finance through a different company, so that he could still take
delivery of the car he had ordered. The application was unsuccessful. He was later able to
obtain finance through a different dealership (selling a different make of car), but again had
to wait some months for delivery.
Mr A complained to BMWFS about the service he received. It explained that Mr As personal
application had been approved automatically. However, the further application received in
the name of Mr As company was reviewed manually, which in turn triggered a manual
review of the personal application. Because his company had a short trading history, which
in turn meant that he had been self-employed for only a short period of time, BMWFS was
unable to offer him finance.
BMWFS said however that, where an application that has been approved is later changed
(as had happened here), the retailer would usually be contacted. That had not happened in
this case, however, and the retailer had ordered Mr As car.
Mr A was not happy with the explanation BMWFS had given and referred the matter to this
service. Our investigator didnt think however that BMWFS had acted unreasonably. Mr A
didnt accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
I did that and explained that it is generally for lenders to decide whether or not to make 
finance available to any potential borrower. This service will not generally interfere in such 
decisions. I could however understand why BMWFS reached the decision it did here  Mr 
As business had only recently been set up and so he was unable to provide proof of a 
stable income over a period of time. 
I did think however that BMWFS should have told Mr A sooner than it did that his application 
for finance had been declined. I indicated that I was likely to make an award of £250 in 
recognition of that. 
Mr A did not accept my provisional decision. He said he thought the stress, inconvenience 
and embarrassment he had suffered was worth more than £250.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A explained when he referred his complaint to us that he had suffered significant 
inconvenience  both professionally and personally  when he did not have the new car he 
had ordered. I dont doubt that at all. However, it seems to me that this was a result of his 
application for finance being declined when it had initially been approved. My provisional 
decision concluded that this was a decision that BMWFS was entitled to make. 
I did however accept that Mr A should have been told sooner that his application for finance 
had been declined. Mr A did not have the car he had ordered and was expecting to take 
delivery of because the finance was not approved. Had he been told that the finance had not 
been approved when he should have been, he would still not have had that car and would 
have had to make different arrangements. 
However, once he found out that the finance had not been approved, Mr A would have 
known that he would not be taking delivery of the car he had ordered. That is, he was in the 
position he should have been in and able to look into alternative arrangements. As I say 
though, the need to do that arose from the lending decision itself, not from the delay in 
communicating it.  
For these reasons I remain of the view that a payment of £250 is a fair way of resolving Mr 
As complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr As complaint, BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
should pay him £250.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman