DRN-3568183
The complaint
Mr A complains that First With Mortgages Limited (FWML) failed to advise him to take out
protection against lifetime allowance (LTA) charges in connection with his pension
arrangements.
What happened
In brief, FWML has been advising Mr A in connection with his pensions and other 
investments since about 2009. Mr A had an index linked occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) which had been in payment since before April 2006. Mr A had continued to work  he 
had his own limited company.
A fact find completed in early 2009 with FWML records that Mr As income from his OPS
was £42,720 pa. He had £85,500 in personal pension plans. Over the following years Mr A
was advised to make further substantial contributions to his personal pension plans, both
from his company and his personal resources.
In late 2010 reductions to the LTA were announced. The new LTA of £1,500,000 (a
reduction from £1,800,000) would take effect from 6 April 2012. Various protections were
introduced to allow a higher LTA to be retained, such as Fixed Protection. To maintain a LTA
of £1,800,000 an application needed to have been made by 5 April 2012. And for Fixed
Protection 2014 to maintain a LTA of £1,500,000, an application needed to have been
submitted by 5 April 2014.
FWML advised Mr A in connection with his pension arrangements at various times between
2009 and 2014. A problem arose in 2017. Mr A says he discovered then that the overall 
value of his pension arrangements exceeded the LTA which was by then £1,000,000. Mr A 
says FWML never advised him about the LTA and that the value of his pension 
arrangements might exceed it. FWML didnt agree. Its position is that Mr A knew about the 
LTA but had chosen not to take any action. FWML didnt uphold Mr As complaint and it was 
referred to us.  
Our investigator upheld the complaint. FWML didnt agree with his findings and the 
complaint was referred to me. I issued a provisional decision on 9 December 2021. For the 
reasons I set out I agreed the complaint should be upheld. I explained that wed made 
enquiries of Mr As accountant. Hed confirmed his advice didnt extend to the LTA. He said it 
was outside his remit and his role was largely confined to dealing with Mr As limited 
company. And I didnt think Mr A wouldve known about the LTA from the administrators of 
his OPS or from the press. So I concentrated on Mr As dealings with FWML. 
I noted that FWML had worked with Mr A since 2009. Thered been regular meetings. In my 
view, taxation was an integral part of financial planning. Especially for pensions, where a 
special taxation regime applied. FWML knew about Mr As overall pension provision, which 
included his OPS in payment. 
I examined all the contemporaneous evidence to see how that reflected the parties differing 
recollections and against the background of the reductions to the LTA announced in 2010 
which would start to take effect from 2012. Thered been discussions about Mr As pension 
arrangements in June 2011, May 2012, January and April 2013 and May 2014. All in all I 
hadnt seen anything to show the LTA had been mentioned, much less discussed with Mr A 
and calculations undertaken to ascertain how close he was to the LTA or by how much he 
was already exceeding it.  
FWML didnt accept what Id said. FWML said it wanted me to address a number of points 
before it responded in full to my provisional decision. In summary:
FWML wanted sight of the accountants working notes from 2009 to 2016. FWML 
said there were discrepancies about the discussions between Mr A and his 
accountant and the information provided by the accountant. If the records werent 
produced, FWML would want to make representations about inferences that should 
be drawn. 
FWML maintained the LTA was tax, not investment, advice and within the 
accountants remit. The key issue was Mr As claim that FWML hadnt advised him 
about the LTA and he remained unaware of it. FWMLs adviser was certain, despite 
the absence of notes in support, that hed dealt with the LTA and referred Mr A to his 
accountant for advice. Mr As assertion  that the accountant didnt mention or advise 
about the LTA as it wasnt within the accountants remit needed further examination.
My provisional decision recorded that the accountant had told us hed been 
presented with contributions made by Mr As company and hed incorporate that 
information into the accounts he prepared for the company. The inference is thered 
been no discussions until after the pension contributions had been made. Thats 
different to what Mr A had said  that hed consulted his accountant when pension 
contributions were to be made by his company and about whether the contributions 
should be in Mrs As name, which is what FWML had recommended, or Mr As.
FWML said the accountant was part of the decision making process prior to the 
contributions being made and was the main contributor in terms of in whose names 
they should be allocated. The LTA shouldve formed part of that consideration and, if 
proved by the accountants notes, will undermine the whole basis of the complaint.
FWMLs adviser says he then reminded Mr A hed be liable for higher rate tax on any 
benefits and it would be part of his LTA (then a fairly minor consideration as the LTA 
was £1.8 million) but the funds would grow tax free in the pension. Mr A had said he 
didnt need the income or the tax free cash from the pension.
Mr A had said that the accountant was unaware of Mr As investments. But the
accountant had confirmed hed completed self assessment tax returns for Mr A and 
his wife. That meant the accountant was giving personal tax advice to Mr A and his 
wife. To complete those returns, hed need to know all the details of pension income, 
dividends, investment and rental income and interest on savings. So hed have been 
aware of all of Mr As investments. 
FWML accepted that the accountant was never involved in investment advice. But he 
did give tax advice  as to in whose name the pension contributions were to be made 
and when to make them. He should also have been involved in LTA tax advice even 
though Mr A was then some way from the limit. The accountant had said that in 40 
years hed never carried out a LTA calculation. But it had only been relevant since A 
Day. It was something he shouldve been aware of and considered fully before 
recommending the allocation of the pension contributions in Mr As name. Hed have 
had other clients in a similar position after 2006.
FWML also asked for sight of the 150 or so emails that Mr A had referred to and 
which Id mentioned in my provisional decision.We asked the accountant for some further information. He agreed hed look through his files 
to see if there was any relevant information. He sent us an email saying as follows:
Further to your recent request regarding a review of my files in relation to Life Time
Allowance (LTA).
I confirm that I have reviewed the following files covering the below mentioned date ranges. I
have found no references, notes or emails relating to LTA:
[File for Mr As company]
Permanent file - 31 March 2003 to 31 March 2018
Working papers file - 31 March 2010 to 31 March 2018
Tax and correspondence file - 16 July 2004 to 13 August 2018
Statutory file - 18 July 2002 to 14 December 2018
[File for Mr A]
Tax and correspondence file - 28 January 2013 to 5 March 2019
[File for Mrs A]
Tax and correspondence file - 1 January 2013 to 5 March 2019
We also asked Mr A for copies of the emails hed referred to. Mr A supplied over 100 emails 
and attachments.
I issued a further provisional decision on 3 May 2022. Ive set out here in full my (further) 
provisional findings. 
FWML says the LTA is tax, not investment, advice and so within the accountants remit.
First, and as I said in my provisional decision, taxation issues, which would include the LTA,
are an integral part of financial planning, and thats particularly the case with pensions which
are subject to a specialist taxation regime. I also explained, with reference to when the LTA
was introduced and how it changed, why it was relevant to Mr A and why I considered,
regardless of the accountants remit, FWML should have drawn the LTA to Mr As attention
when giving him pension advice and when FWML was aware of Mr As substantial OPS
pension in payment.
I think FWML accepts that. Its position is that it did deal with the LTA and referred Mr A to his
accountant for further advice. But Mr A says that didnt happen. In that sort of situation I
need to look at what other evidence (apart from what the parties say) there is to show what
happened or what is likely to have taken place. Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of all the available evidence
and the wider circumstances.
Ive first considered if theres anything to support what FWML says about having told Mr A
about the LTA and suggested he seek advice from his accountant. But FWML hasnt been
able to produce anything  theres no fact find, recommendation report, letter, email, or file
note (whether of a meeting or telephone conversation) or anything else  which refers to or
mentions the LTA.
As I said in my provisional decision, Id have expected FWML to have had some record to
show that the LTA was at least discussed with Mr A, especially if, as FWML asserts, hedeclined to take any action. FWMLs adviser knew that protections were available (hes said
he sought and obtained protection himself) and the tax implications that can arise if LTA
protection isnt sought can be significant  and as this case demonstrates.
I maintain an adviser would know, if an issue later arose, it would be at least prudent to have
some record of any discussions about the LTA. Thats especially the case if, as FWML
suggests, Mr A declined to take any action and so left himself exposed to the possibility that
hed face a LTA charge. Even if Mr A had put forward reasons as to why he wasnt taking
any action (for example, if hed said he didnt intend to ever draw on the fund), Id expect that
to have been recorded, together with any advice FWML gave about that and if it had
recommended that Mr A seek protection anyway. Here FWML has been unable to produce
any evidence to substantiate its claim that it did discuss the LTA with Mr A.
FWML argues that Mr A would have discussed the LTA with his accountant. Weve looked
into that and made enquiries of the accountant. I set out in my provisional decision what hed
told us. As I said, I didnt see any reason to think that the accountants recollections werent
accurate. Hes a third party professional and his evidence should be reliable. But, as Ive
said above, we have got some further evidence from the accountant. He was prepared to
assist us further by going through his files. But he didnt find any mention of the LTA.
FWML has requested sight of the accountants working notes. My understanding of the legal
position is that (and subject to any express contractual provision), some documents belong
to the client and must be supplied to the client on request. But ownership of other
documents, including drafts, working papers and internal file notes, are the property of the
accountant. So an accountant does not have to agree to allow the client access. It would
only be in the context of legal proceedings against the accountant that such documents
would need to be produced under the discovery process. That means Mr A has no legal right
to require the accountant to disclose his working papers.
My powers in relation to evidence are set out in DISP (Dispute Resolution) 3.5.8R and DISP
3.5.9R. I have a fairly wide discretion as to the way in which evidence is presented and what
information I accept. I can exclude evidence that would otherwise be admissible in court or
include evidence that a court wouldnt accept. DISP 3.5.10G, DISP 3.5.11G and DISP
3.5.12G give guidance. DISP 3.5.11G says I have the power to require a party to provide
evidence and that failure to comply with the request can be dealt with by the court. But I
dont see that assists here. The accountant isnt a party to the complainant and, as Ive said,
Mr A has no legal right to insist that the accountant provides his working papers. So I cant
require Mr A to provide that evidence.
Even if the accountant was prepared to release his working papers to Mr A (who could then
share that evidence with us) I think thered be complications and data protection issues
arising from the fact that some of the information relates to Mrs A (who isnt a party to this
complaint) and to others. And I dont think FWML would be entitled to sight of that evidence
anyway. I think that sort of financial information would be sensitive and such that I might only
accept it in confidence as provided for by DISP 3.5.9R (2). In that situation, FWML would
only get to see an edited version, summary or description. That would be meaningless when,
according to the accountant, theres no evidence to show that the LTA was discussed. And
FWML could continue to argue that there might be other papers which hadnt been
disclosed. But I mention that largely in passing given that I dont think I can compel the
accountant to produce what FWML is seeking.
DISP 3.5.12G says I can take into account evidence from third parties. Although he was
instructed by Mr A, the accountant isnt a party to the complaint. So hes a third party and
Ive taken into account his evidence.The accountant has told us that he hasnt ever advised in connection with the LTA or carried
out any LTA calculations. Hes explained his experience and why the LTA wouldnt have
arisen in connection with the type of work he did for Mr A or other clients. As an accountant
for a small business, his main focus was on making sure that Mr As company and Mr A and
his wife as directors met their statutory and compliance obligations. The accountant was
responsible for ensuring that all documents including tax returns were filled out correctly and
filed on time and that any tax due was paid by the due date. The accountant has told us,
from memory, that he didnt discuss the LTA with Mr A. Hes since gone through his records
and has told us theres no mention of the LTA. The accountant is a professional. Id expect
his evidence to be truthful, complete, accurate and reliable. I dont see any reason to
question what the accountant has told us. So it seems he and Mr A didnt discuss the LTA.
The accountant completed self assessment tax returns for Mr A and his wife. But I dont
think it follows that must mean he gave them personal tax advice extending to the overall
value of Mr As pension provision, the LTA and if he needed to take steps to mitigate any
extra tax he might incur for breaching the LTA. The self assessment returns require details
of income whether thats from salary, dividends, income or interest from investments,
pensions in payment, rented properties or anything else, for example, a trust fund. But its
mainly information which the accountant would ask a director client to provide so the clients
liability to income tax can calculated. I think theres a difference between knowing all the
details of Mr As income, including that from investments and pensions, and being familiar
with the underlying assets and any taxation issues, beyond income tax liabilities, that might
arise in connection with any of them.
Id expect an accountant retained to deal with a director clients limited company to give
certain tax advice. For example, in connection with dividend payments where the rate of tax
payable is dependent on other income, which would include any income from a pension in
payment. But I dont see that it would be within that sort of accountants remit to give
specialist pension taxation advice, extending to the value, for LTA purposes, of Mr As
overall pension provision and whether he might breach the LTA. The bulk of Mr As pension
provision was his OPS benefits. Im not sure that all accountants would be familiar with the
formula required to value for LTA purposes an OPS in payment prior to 2006.
FWML has said that it wants sight of the accountants working papers because FWML
considers theres a contradiction between what the accountant and Mr A say. I dont really
agree. To clarify, as I understand things, there would have been some discussions about
pension contributions between Mr A and his accountant before any contributions were made.
Mr A would then implement whatever had been agreed  such as the payment of pension
contributions by the company into Mr As SIPP. Those payments would then be recorded in
the company accounts the accountant later prepared.
I think any discussions with the accountant would first be around if Mr As company was in a
position to make any pension contributions. Employer pension contributions for company
directors are an allowable business expense and will reduce corporation tax but only
provided the contributions pass HMRCs wholly and exclusively test. In deciding that,
HMRC will look at things like the companys annual profits (which will need at least to cover
the proposed contribution) and whether the total remuneration package (salary, dividends,
bonuses etc as well as the pension contributions) is reasonable for the work that the director
does.
Assuming that the wholly and exclusively test is met, the next question would be in whose
name any contributions should be made, Mr A and his wife both being company directors.
Aside from the LTA issues and which as Ive said werent within the accountants remit, I
cant see any real reason for the accountant to advise that the pension contributions should
be in Mrs As name. Mr A was the main generator of the companys income. Given hisconcern not to fall foul of IR 35, it may have been thought safer to make the contributions in
his name. And thats consistent with what FWML says  that Mr A had confirmed that to
avoid any IR 35 implications, he and the accountant had agreed that the contributions should
be in Mr As name. I dont see any problem with that, on the basis that the accountant was
unaware of any other issues which might mean that it would be better for the contributions to
be made for Mrs A.
FWML has said its advice was that contributions should be in Mr As wifes name and had
that been the case Mr A wouldnt now be facing a LTA charge. I can see that but the
difficulty for FWML remains that it cant evidence that the LTA was ever mentioned. Much
less that Mr A was told any employer contributions his company was in a position to make
should be in his wifes name to avoid or mitigate any LTA issues. Or that when Mr A
confirmed the contributions would be in his name, FWML pointed out that it had advised
against and warned that he could face a LTA charge.
Ive also looked at the timeline for the contributions made by Mr A and his company to his
personal pensions. Before being consolidated into the SIPP in May 2012, Mr A had three
personal pension plans, two with one provider and another with a different provider. A fact
find completed in early 2009 shows Mr As personal pensions were then worth £85,500. It
seems there was a conversation about contributing £80,000 pa for the next three years to
bring the pensions up to £240,000 of which £60,000 could be accessed tax free.
In March 2009 Mr A was advised to make a personal contribution of £30,000 (£24,000 net)
along with a £50,000 contribution from his company. And the following year a further
£80,000 in total was contributed on the same basis. The personal contributions were paid
into one of the plans with the same provider and the employer contributions into the other
plan with that provider. Regular contributions then ceased so the third planned £80,000
contribution was never made. In May 2012, when FWML advised Mr A to consolidate his
pension plans into a SIPP, the total fund value was just under £300,000. No further
contributions were made.
In 2009 the LTA was £1,650,000 and due to increase to £1,750,000 from 6 April 2009. And
from 6 April 2010 it increased again to £1,800,000. It remained at that level until 6 April 2012
when it reduced to £1,500,000. Against that background, even if theres some suggestion
the accountant shouldve been aware of and considered the LTA (although I dont accept
that), the LTA had been increasing or was stable when the contributions were made. So the
risk that Mr A might breach the LTA wouldnt have been immediately apparent. I think it
would have been later, against the background of the reductions to the LTA that
consideration shouldve been given to whether Mr A might breach it. As by then contributions
to Mr As personal pension (his SIPP) had ceased, I cant see thered have been anything for
the accountant and Mr A to discuss.
I dont doubt that if Mr As SIPP fund had been approaching the LTA that wouldve been
picked up by FWML. But because the bulk of Mr As pension provision was his OPS in
payment, it appears that breaching the LTA was overlooked.
As Ive said above, I accept the accountants evidence and that he didnt discuss the LTA
with Mr A. And I dont agree with FWML that the LTA was part of the accountants remit. But,
in any event, I dont see the issue is really whether the accountant ought to have given
advice about the LTA. Ive said FWML shouldve given that advice. FWML doesnt disagree
and says it did tell Mr A about the LTA. If FWML cant show it did something which it accepts
it shouldve done, it can point to another party and say that party told Mr A about the LTA
anyway. If thats right, then no loss will have flowed from FWMLs omission  because Mr A
knew about the LTA anyway. But, if it cant be shown that the other party did tell Mr A about
the LTA, I think thats a problem for FWML. I dont think it can escape liability for its omissionby saying that another party shouldve done what it failed to do.
There are also the emails Mr A has now shared with us. We arent in a position to disclose
all of them to FWML. There are data protection issues. Many of the emails contain personal
information, not just relating to Mr A and to his wife but to others too. But weve reviewed all
of them. Only a very small number are directly relevant in terms of being anything to do with
Mr As pension arrangements. Weve identified only six emails which have some form of
reference to a pension or a pension related issue. Well disclose those emails and
attachments. Weve removed the accountants and Mr As wifes email addresses. In general
theres nothing in the emails which calls into question what Ive said about the accountants
role and that it didnt extend to advice about the LTA.
Id comment on the email dated 17 June 2014 forwarding FWMLs advisers details to the
accountant. It appears there was going to be some discussion between the adviser and the
accountant. But I understand that contact wasnt made and there was no conversation.
Weve asked Mr A if he recalls what the discussion was going to be about but he doesnt. He
was however able to let us have his notes of meetings with FWMLs adviser on 15 May 2014
and 1 July 2014. Well share those too.
The notes of the meeting in May 2014 refer to the recent budget. The LTA had reduced to
£1,250,000. The meeting note infers that Mr A can take income from his pension and just
pay 40% income tax. But Mr As OPS income was in excess of £50,000 pa at the time of the
meeting. So he was by then exceeding the LTA. Yet there was no discussion around the
lower LTA and what that meant for Mr A.
The note does refer to Mrs As pension. And it records the advisers advice that money
shouldnt be put into Mr As pension but into Mrs As. FWML has argued throughout that, had
contributions been made into Mrs As pension instead of Mr As, that wouldve avoided or
mitigated the problem with the LTA that Mr A now faces. But, as Ive said, theres no record
of any LTA discussion or any record of FWML having advised that pension contributions be
made in Mrs As name specifically to avoid or reduce any LTA issues for Mr A.
In May 2014 Mr As company was no longer active  Mr A had stopped working by then 
and the company wasnt in a position to pay pension contributions (whether for Mr A or his
wife). It seems that the advice in May 2014 may have been more to do with Mr As plans to
wind up the company and which included making Mrs A redundant. I think the proposed
discussions with the accountant wouldve been around those issues and the possibility of
taking capital out of the company and paying it into Mrs As pension.
But, as Ive said, no conversation took place. The note of the meeting on 1 July 2014 records
that the accountant hadnt been in touch with FWMLs adviser. The note appears to focus on
inheritance tax planning (IHT). It refers to what happens to Mr As pension pot (his SIPP)
should he die before reaching age 75 in which case it would pass free of tax to his family.
And that you have to do something when Mr A reached age 75. Thats a benefit
crystallisation event (BCE). There are a number of BCEs: when pension benefits are taken,
on death, at age 75 and on transfer overseas. I think in talking about IHT the LTA shouldve
been mentioned. Again I think FWMLs focus was on Mr As SIPP and his OPS benefits in
payment and their value for LTA purposes appear to have been overlooked.
I think, if the LTA had been mentioned, during either meeting (or indeed at any meeting with
FWML), Mr and Mrs As meeting notes wouldve recorded that. The LTA was an important
issue which, if breached, had serious taxation consequences for Mr A. I cant see that theyd
have ignored the issue. And, as Ive already said, if it was discussed and Mr A elected to
take no action, Id have expected FWML to have recorded that and Mr As reasons.All in all, having considered everything again very carefully, I maintain the views set out in
my earlier provisional decision.
We asked FWML for any further comments. We also told the parties on 31 May 2022 that Id 
thought again about redress and we set out a revised approach to redress. 
FWML commented in response to my further provisional decision on 29 June 2022. It said 
important points had been overlooked and my provisional decision was unjust. In summary 
FWML made the following main points (to be read in conjunction with its earlier comments): 
The accountant hadnt provided any real evidence or notes to back up why the LTA 
wasnt discussed after Mr As meetings with FWMLs adviser  all tax issues were 
dealt with by the accountant and Mr A was always advised to consult his accountant. 
It was impossible to think the accountant has never advised on LTA issues. He was 
Mr As business and personal accountant and dealt with all Mr As tax affairs. The 
accountant wouldve been aware of the issues since A Day in 2006 and wouldve had 
updates from his professional body/HMRC to use when giving tax advice to a client. 
Id referred to the accountant as a professional and said that Id expect his evidence 
to be truthful, complete, accurate and reliable. Reaching a decision based on 
hearsay from Mr A and his accountant was unfair and FWML hadnt been afforded 
the same consideration. The advisers evidence, as a Chartered Financial Planner, 
should be deemed the same. And the conclusion drawn that he did discuss the LTA 
with Mr A at various times but Mr A had chosen to ignore it  as evidenced by the 
annuity discussions in 2013. 
The accountant is pivotal and it was unjust to simply accept his reply without any 
evidence and discount FWMLs version. Mr A could request the accountants full 
working notes. It was unfair to reach a decision without that relevant information. If it 
isnt produced thats suspicious. An ombudsman should be looking at the case as an 
independent adjudicator and factoring in that the accountant has not produced his 
working notes.  
Mr As wife is involved as she attended the meetings and made notes which have 
been relied on. In January 2013 she noted discussions around taking benefits when 
annuity quotations were produced and again in April 2013. She fully recorded the 
figures around the annuity options but she isnt a professional notetaker and she 
forgot to write down the reason  the LTA. There was no other reason for providing 
annuity quotations. Mr A didnt want to take benefits because of tax implications; he 
didnt want or need his tax free cash; and he wanted the option to pay more into his 
pension. 
Diary notes for the meeting on 28 January 2013 were attached together with an 
article used by the adviser at the time regarding LTA timelines and reductions and 
which were discussed with Mr A. 
In April 2014 the reduction to the LTA was again discussed. Again in December 2015 
taking benefits and LTA implications were discussed. In July 2017 there are notes 
from the adviser specifically highlighting the LTA and calculations to discuss with the 
accountant. 
FWML said it had serious concerns about redress. It said Mr A was aware of Fixed 
Protection 2012 but didnt take it because he was still working and may have made 
further pension contributions. Fixed Protection 2012 is irrelevant and shouldnt form 
part of any potential redress calculations. Mr A will have calculated hell get more 
compensation. Mr A discussed the LTA and protection in meetings in 2014, 2015 and 
2017 with budget updates. Mr A didnt take protection in 2014 or 2017. And it should 
be noted that he still hasnt taken Fixed Protection 2016 despite apparently telling 
this service he had. FWML was unable to apply on his behalf. FWML said Mr A was 
trying to blame someone for his own inaction. Hed also complained to other agencies before bringing a complaint to this service. 
The adviser, FWMLs Chief Executive, added a statement. His main points were:
The purpose of the ombudsman service was to give a fair hearing to both sides and 
act as an independent adjudicator and come to a decision based on facts provided 
by both sides. He likened the complaint to a car crash insurance claim. He reiterated 
that Mr A had complained to other parties about his situation so he was aware of it. 
Hed even looked into the possibility of divorcing to reduce the tax payable. He was 
looking to blame someone for his own inaction. 
The case has been going on for years and FWML had spent much time defending it 
during a very difficult period. All FWML will save is the excess on its Professional 
Indemnity Insurance (although renewal costs would rise if the complaint succeeded). 
FWML wouldnt have done that if wasnt certain of its advice to Mr A. It was about 
stopping unjust claims which affect everyone in the industry and puts up insurance 
costs. 
Id said that Mr As wife wasnt part of the claim but all the notes were hers. It wasnt 
the advisers fault that she didnt write down or record everything despite the LTA 
being discussed during various meetings. If she isnt part of the claim then her notes 
shouldnt be included and when I wasnt asking for the accountants notes in full. 
The adviser found it difficult to accept what the accountant had said about never 
having completed a LTA calculation and presumably never having discussed with 
clients or assessed the effect of A Day or LTA changes. The adviser suggested 
thered be negligence on the part of the accountant when his job was getting all the 
clients financial details including about pensions to complete full tax returns and 
accounts. The accountant shouldve taken the LTA into consideration at that point, 
even though Mr A was then way below the limit. The adviser reiterated that the 
accountant had contradicted what Mr A had said. 
FWML had never claimed LTA protection for clients. FWML isnt a tax adviser and 
doesnt have the necessary authority. FWML doesnt collect tax refunds on pension 
contributions for higher rate tax payers but directs them to their accountant as their 
tax adviser. Nor does FWML complete wills or powers of attorney but will tell clients 
about those and direct them to a solicitor. 
The notes about discussions in client meetings ten or twelve years ago werent as 
comprehensive as they are now. But the adviser queried why thered be annuity 
quotes and notes regarding the LTA if there werent discussions about taking benefits 
to avoid the LTA. And why the adviser would have an article and diary notes about 
the LTA if it hadnt been discussed. 
Mr A had contradicted himself and his accountant, whose evidence Id accepted. The 
adviser asked why his evidence hadnt been afforded the same credibility. The 
adviser felt that all the available evidence pointed to the fact that hed discussed LTA 
implications with Mr A.
The adviser has been in practice for 43 years and hes never had a case dealt with 
by this service. He suggested Mr A had client amnesia. The adviser set out his 
business ethos, his enthusiasm for the industry, his personal ethics and his 
commitment to education and charity. There was no reason why he wouldnt have 
told Mr A about the LTA. On the balance of probabilities on the available evidence it 
has to be concluded that it was discussed but ignored by Mr A. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I can see how unhappy FWML is with my provisional decision(s) and with the redress I 
suggested. Ive considered very carefully FWMLs comments and taking into account all 
FWML has said previously. 
FWML and its adviser have pointed to what I said about the accountants evidence being 
truthful, complete, accurate and reliable. In saying that I meant no discourtesy to FWMLs 
adviser and I apologise if it appeared otherwise. I entirely accept all the adviser has said 
about his business and personal ethics. And I agree that the fact hes never had a complaint 
referred to this service before is commendable and supports what hes said about how he 
conducts himself and his business. I can understand why he suggests I should accept what 
hes said and that he did discuss, more than once, the LTA and its implications with Mr A 
and advised him to seek advice from his accountant. 
But Mr A has disputed what the adviser has said. And in that sort of situation it wont usually 
be fair to just accept whats been said  by one or other party  about what happened and 
what was or wasnt discussed. Wed instead look into the dispute further and examine what 
each party has said and try to find any further supporting and corroborating evidence. That 
will include any direct evidence, such as written contemporaneous records (although there 
may be a dispute about the accuracy or completeness of that evidence). And well consider 
any indirect or circumstantial evidence as well as any evidence from any third parties. Well 
then come to a decision on the balance of probabilities, after taking into account and 
weighing up all the evidence weve seen and the wider circumstances. 
Against that background I hope FWML can understand why Im unable to simply accept what 
the adviser has said. Mr A has challenged the advisers version of events. I need to look at 
all the information and decide what weight I should attach to particular evidence in order to 
reach a conclusion, on the balance of probabilities, about the issues which are in dispute. 
The central issue is whether FWML did discuss the LTA with Mr A. Ive looked at what 
evidence there is to substantiate the advisers assertion that the LTA was discussed more 
than once with Mr A and he chose to take no action. 
FWML says Mr A is trying to play on the fact that theres no direct written evidence to show 
that the LTA was discussed. But the lack of any direct evidence is the central problem for 
FWML. The complaint that Mr A wasnt told about the LTA should be relatively easy to 
answer  by production of clear, contemporaneous, written evidence. Such as a letter or 
email to Mr A, noting the value for LTA purposes of his OPS pension in payment plus his 
growing SIPP fund and alerting him to the LTA and possible implications. Or a meeting note 
or fact find (preferably signed by Mr A) mentioning the LTA.  If such evidence cant be 
produced then FWMLs position is difficult unless theres other evidence to demonstrate that 
FWML told Mr A about the LTA. 
FWML has pointed in particular to the discussions in 2013 and the further advice that FWML 
gave then. It was against the background that the LTA had reduced from £1,800,000 to 
£1,500,000 with effect from April 2012. And thered be a further reduction to £1,250,000 in 
April 2014. My understanding is that in 2013 Mr A was already exceeding the LTA although 
FWMLs understanding (based on an out of date figure for Mr As OPS in payment) was that 
Mr As pension provision was less than the LTA but would exceed the reduced LTA which 
would apply from April 2014. Either way, I can see that discussions about the LTA in 2013 
wouldve been pertinent. Ive considered again the evidence about what happened in 2013 
and if it indicates that the LTA was discussed.
There was a meeting on 28 January 2013. FWML has produced a copy of the advisers 
paper diary for that date. We asked for confirmation of exactly what the handwritten notes 
which appear under the appointment for Mr A and his wife say. FWML told us:Call when on way
Pension review etc
Annuities
LTA ETC
Girls [a reference to Mr As daughters]
Thats a contemporaneous record  which carries weight  as to what the adviser planned to 
discuss with Mr A at the meeting. Ive considered it very carefully and whether its enough for 
me to say that the LTA was discussed with Mr A at the meeting on 28 January 2013. But, on 
balance, and taking other evidence into account, including FWMLs suitability letter sent the 
following day, I dont think it is.
Weve seen the notes Mrs A took at the meeting. They show that annuity options were 
discussed. The notes record that the then current SIPP fund of £294,000 would buy an 
immediate single life annuity, payable for a minimum of ten years, of £13,400 pa. Or a joint 
lives annuity of £11,665 pa payable until the second annuitants death. And a short term (five 
years) annuity with a residual capital balance is noted too. But theres no mention of the LTA 
or any indication that buying an annuity might mitigate any LTA charge. 
FWML issued a suitability report on 29 January 2013. The covering letter refers to the 
meeting having been to discuss pension investments and ongoing retirement strategy. The 
report itself says it is a reminder of what was discussed and the thinking behind the 
recommendations. The report details investment recommendations for Mr As SIPP and 
charges  both product charges and FWMLs advice fees  which had been reduced from 
£4,350 to £2,500. The investment recommendations for Mr As SIPP fund (the then fund 
value was £294,133) were set out, leaving some £4,133 in cash after initial fees to cover 
ongoing fees and charges.  
Toward the end of the report taxation is mentioned. It says, under the heading, Important 
points to remember concerning investment taxation as follows:
Special tax rules apply to when you chose to receive benefits from a pension plan.
At retirement, you may draw benefits from your pension as income, or as a tax free
cash payment plus income. Up to 25% of the pension fund may be withdrawn as a
cash lump sum free of income tax.
The remainder of the fund must be used to provide a retirement income and this will
be subject to income tax. Pension income will be treated as earned income for tax
purposes and the rate payable will depend on how much income you receive in 
retirement. 
The LTA isnt mentioned. Id have thought, if it had been identified by then that thered be 
other taxation implications for Mr A  specifically that his overall pension benefits meant that 
he was or would be in breach of the LTA  that wouldve been noted. Especially if that had 
been discussed at the meeting only the day before, along with annuity options aimed at 
mitigating any LTA charge. 
FWML says there was no reason why annuity options wouldve been explored, other than to 
reduce Mr As exposure to the LTA. Its possible if, as FWML says, Mr A discounted annuity 
purchase because he didnt want or need the income and he didnt want to pay (higher rate) 
tax on it, that the discussion then moved onto how the SIPP should be invested. And so the 
suitability letter only recorded those recommendations. But the problem for FWML is that 
theres no record of any discussions about the LTA. The LTA is a very important factor in 
pension planning for those clients whose overall pension benefits are substantial. 
Discussions about it should be recorded. Especially, and as Ive said before, if a potential 
problem is identified and the client then decides against taking any steps to address that. I think there was a further meeting on 30 January 2013. Mrs As notes record that and its 
shown on the advisers diary entries. I dont think Ive seen a note of that meeting. It may just 
have been to sign the paperwork to enable the investment recommendations to be 
implemented. 
Ive noted the article the adviser has provided. But Im not sure its particularly relevant. I 
accept that the adviser did know about changes to the LTA  including as the article notes 
that it would fall to £1,250,000 from April 2014. I dont doubt hed have identified that some 
clients should seek protection and advised them accordingly. And hes said he sought and 
obtained protection himself. But the issue here is whether that advice was given to Mr A. His 
position wasnt straightforward in that his SIPP fund, on its own, was well below the LTA.  
But he also had a substantial OPS in payment.  
There was as further meeting on 4 April 2013. Again Mrs A made notes. They record how 
£280,000 of the overall SIPP fund was invested  in line with the recommendations set out in 
FWMLs letter of 29 January 2013. Theres a note that 25% of the fund can be taken tax 
free. Again theres no mention of the LTA, that Mr A would exceed it, and what further tax 
charges that might create.  
As I said in my further provisional decision, the notes of the meeting in May 2014 refer to the 
recent budget. The LTA had reduced to £1,250,000. Thats not included in the notes. FWML 
suggests that may have been an omission on Mrs As part. But the meeting note infers that 
Mr A can take income from his pension and just pay 40% income tax. Mr As OPS income 
was in excess of £50,000 pa at the time of the meeting. So he was by then exceeding the 
LTA. Theres no note of any discussion around the lower LTA and what that meant for Mr A 
 that his tax bill wouldnt just be limited to paying higher rate tax on the income he took from 
his SIPP. As the note stands, it reads as if Mr A can simply take income from his SIPP, 
subject to paying income tax at 40% on that income. 
I note what FWML has said about the notes taken by Mr As wife. And the suggestion that 
she omitted to record  on several occasions  discussions about the LTA. Ive born in mind 
that she wasnt what FWML refers to as a professional notetaker. Its possible she may not 
have recorded all that was discussed. But, if the LTA had been mentioned  and the 
possible taxation implications for Mr A  I dont really see why Mrs A wouldnt have noted 
that and when she noted other tax considerations  such as tax free cash and paying higher 
rate income tax. As the LTA reduced and the value of Mr As SIPP increased, the issue 
became increasingly pertinent. I think it wouldve led to queries and further questions which 
wouldve been noted too. And if Mr A had been advised to seek advice from his accountant, I 
think Mrs A wouldve noted that Mr A needed to follow up with the accountant. 
FWML has suggested Mr A should have his own notes. I dont see why hed have made 
notes himself when Mrs A was present at the meetings and took notes. I dont agree that her 
notes should be disregarded. As Ive explained, Ive considered carefully all the available 
evidence from all sources and what weight it should carry to reach a decision on the balance 
of probabilities about the issues which are in dispute in this case. 
I note what FWML has said about record keeping requirements being more stringent now 
than they were some ten or so years ago. I agree that what happened should be judged on 
the basis of the regulations and industry standards at the time. But, although financial advice 
may be subject now to increased regulation, Id still expect a firm, as a matter of good 
practice, to have made and retained file and meeting notes. And to record all advice thats 
given, even if (or perhaps especially if) a client declined to take it. From everything Ive seen, theres only one direct contemporaneous reference to the LTA  
in the advisers diary note. Theres nothing else (that is before 2017 when the issue came to 
light) which refers to the LTA despite FWML saying that the issue was discussed with Mr A 
more than once over the years. Against the background Ive set out and the other evidence 
Ive considered, I dont think the diary note is enough for me to say that the LTA was 
discussed with Mr A, that he understood the implications and that he could take steps to 
mitigate his position but decided against. 
As to the accountants part in the matter, FWML makes two points: first that the accountant 
wouldve discussed the LTA with Mr A; and, secondly, even if that didnt happen, the 
accountant shouldve advised Mr A about the LTA. 
As Ive said before, even if FWML cant show that it did discuss the LTA with Mr A no loss 
would flow from any omission if it was clear that Mr A knew about the LTA anyway from 
another source. But again theres a dispute  Mr A says the LTA didnt form part of any 
discussions with the accountant. Weve investigated what the accountant may have said 
about the LTA. Weve asked the accountant what he recalls. His position is that what Mr A 
has said is right and that the LTA didnt form part of any discussions with or advice to Mr A. 
And the accountant has checked his records to see if theres any mention of the LTA but 
there isnt. 
FWML is concerned that the accountants full working notes havent been produced. But 
weve taken evidence from the accountant and Im satisfied Ive seen enough to make a fair 
decision. I dont think I need to see all the working notes. Especially as what wed be looking 
for is something the accountant says doesnt exist  mention of the LTA  because it wasnt 
discussed. 
I dont agree that the accountants evidence is hearsay. We arent relying on what Mr A says 
the accountant would say. Im relying on what the accountant himself has told us and having 
gone through his records to check his recollection is correct. 
The accountant has explained that the LTA wasnt discussed as it was outside his remit. In 
my further provisional decision I set out why, despite all FWML had said, I accepted that. 
Essentially, the accountant was retained to deal with Mr As limited company. That included 
some personal taxation issues, such as completing self assessment returns. And to do that 
the accountant wouldve needed full details of Mr As income, including his OPS pension in 
payment. But self assessment is about taxable income and capital gains. As Mr A wasnt 
taking any income from his SIPP, I dont see the SIPP wouldve featured. I dont think the 
accountants remit extended to matters such as the value of Mr As overall pension provision 
and whether he might exceed the LTA. Those issues related to Mr As retirement planning 
generally and which FWML was advising him about. 
I dont think any apparent contradiction in what Mr A said and what his accountant has said 
about pension contributions is particularly significant. The point is, even if the accountant 
advised as to in whose name the contributions should be made, he did that from the 
perspective of advising Mr A as the director of a limited company and someone who didnt 
want to breach IR35. FWML says that problem with the LTA wouldnt have arisen if the 
pension contributions had been made in Mrs As name. But theres no documentary 
evidence to back up what FWML says about having advised Mr A to that effect and with 
specific reference to the LTA.  
As to the emails which Mr A has produced, they were contemporaneous exchanges between 
Mr A and FWML and other parties, including the accountant, going back several years. They 
arent emails to this service about Mr As complaint. Weve gone through the emails. Weve explained why we cant disclose them all. But weve shared whats relevant. We havent 
seen any refence to the LTA. 
With regard to FWMLs comments about the revised redress, weve explained why Id 
thought again about redress. I dont think its the case that Mr A is seeking to maximise the 
redress. Ive based redress on what I think Mr A is likely to have done if hed been advised 
about the reductions to the LTA, that he was likely to breach the LTA and what steps he 
could take to mitigate his position. I dont think Individual Protection 2016 is relevant. Ive 
repeated below the revised redress notified to FWML and Mr A. 
Putting things right
My aim, in awarding redress, is to put Mr A in the position hed be in now, had he had what I 
consider wouldve been correct and complete advice. Its obviously difficult, after the event 
and without using the benefit of hindsight, to say exactly what Mr A wouldve done, had he 
been properly advised. In that sort of situation, I reach a decision on the balance of 
probabilities, that is what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of all the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. In a case such as this, that will involve 
making some assumptions as to what decisions Mr A may have made and what actions he 
may have taken and when.
My starting point remains that with proper advice Mr A would have obtained Fixed Protection
2012 which wouldve given him a LTA of £1,800,000. The application for Fixed Protection 
2012 had to be made by 5 April 2012. It wouldve been lost if further contributions were 
made after that date but Mr As contributions to his SIPP had ceased by then.
Pension benefits are tested against the LTA at benefit crystallisation events (BCEs). Any
pensions already in payment before 6 April 2006 will be tested at the first BCE after 5 April
2006. The value is 25 times the yearly pension at the date of the BCE. Mr As OPS in
payment was substantial and annual increases would mean that, over the years, hed eat 
into his protected £1,800,000 LTA. For example, First With Mortgages Limiteds 2009 fact 
find records Mr As pension income at £42,270. Mr A has told us that by 2015 it had 
increased to £53,399. Im not sure of the current amount but annual increases will have 
augmented that figure substantially.
If that was Mr As only pension provision then the LTA wouldnt have any impact  hed have
no uncrystallised pre April 2006 benefits and so thered be no later BCE. But Mr A does
have other pension provision  his SIPP. Hes told us that at the end of 2021 his SIPP fund
value was around £540,000.
My view is that, in addition to advising Mr A to secure a LTA of £1,800,000, an adviser 
shouldve also been alive to the likelihood that increases to Mr As OPS in payment and 
growth on his SIPP fund (although no further contributions would be made) meant that Mr A 
would breach a LTA of £1,800,000 in any event at some point in the future. Ways in which 
he might mitigate his tax position and his exposure to a LTA charge shouldve been 
explored.
I recognise its not possible to say now exactly what Mr A wouldve been advised to do and 
what hed have done. But I need to come to a decision based on what I think is likely to have 
happened and which is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr A couldnt have done anything in relation to his OPS benefits and which continue to
increase year on year. So attention wouldve focused on the SIPP. Taking tax free cash from
the SIPP wouldve been a fairly easy way to take money out of the SIPP in a tax efficientmanner and limit future growth. I dont think its unreasonable to assume that, as at April 
2013 and following on from the discussions in 2012 which wouldve led to him securing a 
LTA of £1,800,000, Mr A wouldve gone on to take tax free cash from the SIPP. He may not 
have needed that money but it wouldve made sense from a tax planning perspective to take 
it. As he didnt need it, Mr A is likely to have invested the withdrawn tax free cash, possibly in 
Mrs As name, in a tax efficient way. I dont think its unreasonable to say it wouldve had 
similar growth to that achieved in the SIPP.
Taking the tax free cash wouldve been a BCE and so the value of Mr As benefits on the
date the BCE occurred wouldve been tested against the LTA. I propose that the date of the 
BCE should be assumed to be 6 April 2013. Based on what weve seen, that (notional) 
calculation wont indicate that any LTA charge wouldve arisen.
But that still leaves the problem of what would happen in the future and at what point a 
further BCE would have arisen and what the result would be. We know that Mr A hasnt 
taken any income from his SIPP. Hes said, and I accept, that he doesnt need to have 
recourse to the SIPP. I think it would be reasonable to assume that, if Mr A had taken his tax 
free cash from the SIPP, hed have kept the residual balance in drawdown and not taken any 
further income from the SIPP fund.
In that scenario, a further BCE would only arise in the event of Mr As death or when he
reaches age 75. Thats some nine years away. But we need to finalise the complaint now. It 
is in both parties interests for a line to be drawn under this matter. It wouldnt be fair or 
practicable for the complaint and payment of redress to remain outstanding and unresolved. 
I think it would be fair and reasonable, and in the interests of simplicity and to allow the 
complaint to be concluded, to assume that Mr A is 75 as at the date of the calculation. The 
calculation should be based on the current value of his SIPP less 25% to allow for the tax 
free cash Ive said Mr A wouldve taken.
The notional calculation should be compared to Mr As actual position as at the date of the
calculation  that is his actual liability to a LTA charge based on the value of his SIPP at the
date of the calculation. 
That comparison will generate a notional figure for any LTA charge. The usual expected 
income tax should be taken into account. The difference should be paid direct to Mr A.
As weve noted, Mr A hasnt got Individual Protection 2016. That would give him protection 
based on the value of all his pension benefits in as at 5 April 2016, including any pensions 
already in payment, up to a maximum of £1,250,000. But the value of Mr As OPS pension in 
payment as at that date exceeded that amount. So the full value of his SIPP is subject to the 
LTA charge, with or without Individual Protection 2016.
First With Mortgages Limited needs to carry out a financial loss assessment as follows:
To work out the notional LTA Charge, at the date of settlement, First With Mortgages Limited 
should assume Fixed Protection 2012 had been obtained by 5 April 2012. And Mr As SIPP 
was crystallised on 6 April 2013, with 25% being withdrawn as tax-free cash. This sum would 
likely be invested and achieve similar levels of growth to what has been achieved within the 
pension plan. The residual 75% of Mr As SIPP wouldve remained invested as it has been, 
achieving the same growth up to the date of settlement. At the date of settlement, First With 
Mortgages Limited should calculate the LTA charge due on 75% of Mr As actual SIPP 
value, accounting for the prior crystallised value on 6 April 2013.The above notional LTA charge should be compared to the actual LTA charge due on Mr As 
SIPP at the date of settlement, on the basis no prior BCE or LTA protection has been 
obtained. The difference is the loss payable to Mr A to redress him for the omission made by 
First With Mortgages Limited to provide suitable advice. Theres also a payment of £300 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A.
We havent undertaken any calculations so I dont know how much redress might be. Where 
I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business of up 
to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs I think are appropriate. If I think 
that fair compensation may be more than £160,000, I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that First With Mortgages Limited should pay Mr 
A the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that First With Mortgages Limited pays Mr A the balance.  
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. First With Mortgages Limited 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr A can accept my decision and go 
to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. First With Mortgages Limited must redress Mr A as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman