DRN-2937238
The complaint
This complaint is about a commercial mortgage S took with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Its 
unhappy that Barclays didnt charge the correct interest rate on the loan and so it overpaid 
interest for ten years. It has put forward that had this not happened, the money it would have 
retained would have been invested in the business and that would have produced an income 
over the last 14 years. As such, it wants Barclays to compensate it for the loss of revenue. 
What happened
S is a partnership. In 2006 it took out a commercial mortgage with Barclays for £600,000 
over 21 years in order to buy a holiday park. A fixed interest rate product of 7.375% was 
attached to the mortgage for the first five years; ending 12 April 2011. 
In 2009 Barclays granted S a 12-month capital payment holiday, which meant it only had to 
pay the interest part of the contractual monthly payment (CMP) for that period. It was 
confirmed that the CMP from 12 April 2010 would be £5,149.36.
S has provided evidence that there was some conversation with Barclays shortly after the 
product expired about whether S wanted to attach a new interest rate product to the 
mortgage  be that a fixed rate or a tracker rate. However, whatever S decided on this front, 
the new tracker rate wasnt applied immediately. 
In late 2011 Barclays realised it had overcharged S interest on its mortgage because it had 
left the mortgage on the fixed interest rate. It refunded slightly under £9,000 in interest to the 
mortgage account. The interest rate was changed to 3.65% above base rate in 
November 2011. 
S re-mortgaged with Barclays at the beginning of 2016 for around £475,000. This provided 
£24,000 for S to complete improvements to the accommodation and facilities it offered. S 
has, during this complaint investigation, also evidenced that it took further credit elsewhere 
in order to complete additional improvements to the accommodation and to purchase 
machinery.
In May 2016, Barclays reviewed the first mortgage and it was decided that a lower interest 
rate should have been applied in 2011 - 2.575% above base rate. This resulted in a 
calculation showing that £36,798.01 additional interest had been paid between 12 April 2011 
and 11 January 2016. Barclays added simple interest (less tax) to the overpaid interest and 
deducted the refund already paid. S was paid slightly over £28,000.
S has told us its legal representative complained to Barclays in late 2019, but no response 
was received. It complained again in early 2020. Barclays acknowledged the complaint, but 
when a final response hadnt been issued sometime later, S asked this service to consider 
the complaint.
When doing so, S explained to us that because of the additional interest it paid between 
2011 and 2016, it had been unable to develop the park as it had expected to do. This has 
led to it having a lower income than it otherwise would have. It said that it had lost faith in 
Barclays and believed it was still being overcharged interest. However, it had been unable to 
prove this without account statements, that Barclays hadnt provided and had blocked 
access to via internet banking. 
We informed Barclays S had asked us to consider its complaint. Barclays said that it thought 
many of the issues had been raised too late, as they were about matters S would have 
known about more than six years earlier. 
Our investigator spoke to S and it confirmed its complaint was about it being overcharged 
interest and the loss of opportunity this had caused it. It said the references to other things 
that had happened earlier in its relationship with Barclays were just for background.
The investigator confirmed that we would consider the complaint about the overpaid interest 
and the impact being deprived of those funds had had on its business activities. The 
investigator also asked S to provide any evidence of the plans it had had in place to develop 
the business, which it was unable to do, but which would have been facilitated by the 
amount of the overpaid interest.
S confirmed that it hadnt had a business plan for developing the park. Rather it just met with 
the Barclays manager, who looked at the park and offered a mortgage with a verbal promise 
to help S to update the accommodation and facilities. It said the only proof it had were all the 
asset loans that it had to take out to replace some of the 60-year-old chalets and some of 
the caravans, which put an extra financial burden on S. It was pointed out that Barclays only 
realised its error after S had taken a new, larger mortgage with it to buy four second-hand 
caravans. It also said that the purchase of these caravans had increased its profits by 
£10,000.  
S went on to say that the profits of the park had gone down year on year due to the fact that 
it has old accommodation and it had to reduce the rental prices to reflect that. It said its 
income had been about £120,000 per year, but it is now down to less than £85,000. S didnt 
provide any evidence of these figures. 
After gathering information from the parties, the investigator issued his conclusions on the 
complaint. He wasnt persuaded that S had provide evidence that it would have used the 
amount of overpaid interest to develop the park, had these funds been left in its bank 
account at the end of each month. He also commented that even if it could be shown the 
money would have been saved and invested in the business, S would still have to provide 
evidence that any such investment would have resulted in additional revenue and profit. As 
the investigator wasnt convinced S had evidenced it had suffered a loss due to being 
overcharged interest between 2011 and 2016, he explained he couldnt ask Barclays to do 
anything more than it already had. 
In relation to S having mentioned that it didnt have access to mortgage account statements 
from 2016, the investigator confirmed that Barclays had provided evidence the relevant 
statements were available online and that theyd been sent in a paper format too. Barclays 
had checked and had no record of S informing it that statements werent received or 
accessible. The investigator provided S with contact details for the relevant team at Barclays 
that could assist S if it had problems accessing account details online. 
S didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It provided evidence that Barclays had been 
aware the interest rate product was ending and so the problem of it overcharging interest 
shouldnt have happened. S also provided evidence that it had asked for a statement for the first mortgage some time ago and it said this was never received. It said that on every visit 
from Barclays issues were raised about the trouble it was having accessing mortgage 
statements, but it was told the statements were in the cloud. Although S told Barclays it 
couldnt access this information, and Barclays said it would sort this out, and it was not until 
September 2019 that copy statements were provided.
In relation to the use of the money, S said it wouldnt have saved the money, it would have 
used it each year to buy two good quality second-hand caravans. It confirmed that the refund 
received in 2016 was used to pay back money S had borrowed to buy a lawn mower in 
2013, and to replace two chalets and two caravans. S questioned how the investigator could 
conclude that it hadnt sustained a loss when its income had dropped from around £120,000 
to less than £85,000. Again, no evidence of this drop in income or its cause was provided. S 
said every penny it had to spare went into Barclays overcharged interest; anything left after 
that was paid went back into the business. 
In addition, S said the interest it had received on the refund in 2016 was inadequate given 
the losses it had suffered by being deprived of the money. It provided documentation relating 
to other purchases and development work it had done on the park:
An invoice from a finance provider dated 15 April 2016 for the lease of two log cabins for 
the month commencing 15 March 2016. This was for an amount of £351.36 plus VAT = 
£421.63.
An Invoice dated 13 July 2016 from the same finance provider for early settlement of 
outstanding rentals totalling £7,446.38 plus VAT = £8,935.66.
An invoice dated 28 November 2016 for the purchase of two caravans on finance. Each 
caravan was detailed as costing £4,250 plus VAT giving a total of £8,670.00
An invoice dated 30 September 2016 for a new log cabin costing £4,996.67 plus VAT = 
£5,996.00
Our investigator considered S further comments, but didnt change his conclusions. As 
agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for consideration. 
Following this I asked our investigator to explain to S that some new complaint points that 
had been raised in responses to the investigator, would need to be raised with Barclays in 
the first instance. In light of this, I havent mentioned the issues in my above narrative.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given S confirmation of what its complaint was, I have focused on the core issue of this 
complaint; the overcharged interest and the consequential losses S has put forward as 
having been suffered. 
There are two elements to the interest refund on this case  the initial mistake made by 
Barclays because it didnt attach the new interest rate product to the mortgage when it 
should have. Then there is the second refund based on Barclays deciding in 2016 that S 
should have been offered a lower margin on the tracker interest rate that was applied in 
2011. Barclays refunded the additional interest S paid at the times it realised its errors. I have 
noted S comment that the interest it received on the refund wasnt enough, given the size of 
the consequential loss it suffered. I would firstly comment that where interest has been 
overcharged, it is initially appropriate for the financial business to refund the overpayment 
with interest. That is what Barclays did and I cant fault that. 
However, S has said that there have been considerable consequential losses because it was 
paying Barclays money from its income, rather than reinvesting that money into the 
business. It has been confirmed that while S always intended to improve the accommodation 
and facilities provided by the park, it didnt have a plan for what it would do or when. That 
makes it more difficult to determine how S would have used the money that was incorrectly 
charged by Barclays. In such circumstances, what the money was used for subsequently is 
often a good indication of what it would have been used for had it been available earlier.
S said it paid off finance that had been arranged to facilitate improvements to the park and 
for a lawn mower. The invoices provided show that, following the refund in May 2016 it 
bought a log cabin and paid off the lease for two others. This accounted for just over half the 
refunded monies. The invoice for the caravans in November 2016 show that they were 
purchased on finance, rather than using the refund from May 2016 or the funds released by 
the earlier re-mortgage. 
This is a difficult decision, as there is some evidence that of capital expenditure following the 
refund, but equally it was following the release of capital from the re-mortgage. However, if 
that capital expenditure was from the refund, it doesnt evidence that all of the money 
refunded was used for such purposes. Whilst I accept it is possible if S hadnt been 
overcharged interest between 2011 and 2016 some or all of that money would have been 
invested into the business, I cant conclude that it definitely would have been. In addition, as 
our investigator said, we havent been provided with any evidence that such an investment 
would have increased the profitability of the park or that the lack of that investment has 
caused a drop in profits as has been suggested. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that S has evidenced that it has suffered a further financial loss 
in the form of revenue and profit as a result of being overcharged interest between 2011 and 
2016.  
S said in its submissions to this service that it believed that it might still be overpaying 
interest, but it couldnt prove this because it couldnt access mortgage statements. Our 
investigator looked into this and was satisfied that S could access the relevant statements 
and that it didnt appear that S had been prevented by Barclays from accessing this 
information. I am satisfied that is the case. I note that S has now clarified that it was only one 
mortgage statement that it didnt have, and a couple of bank statements, I dont believe they 
would be relevant to the concern S had raised. I say this as the bank statements wouldnt be 
considered under a complaint about the mortgage and the mortgage statement was for the 
previous mortgage, not the current one. As such, I wont comment further on this issue.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask S to accept or reject my decision before 
18 November 2021.
 Derry Baxter
Ombudsman