DRN-1555963
The complaint
Mr S complains that Black Horse Limited overcharged him for damage to a car he returned 
at the end of a finance agreement.
What happened
Mr Ss agreement came to an end and he was notified of the end of agreement procedure. 
An agent acting for Black Horse collected the car from Mr S. The agent inspected the car 
and identified four damaged alloys and a gouge in a tyre. Mr S says the inspector told him 
the car was in good condition. 
Black Horse charged Mr S £495.12, but before sending him details of the damages it sent an 
arrears letter. Mr S complained and Black Horse apologised for sending the arrears letter. It 
offered him £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience he had been caused. It 
also offered to write off the charge of £100 for the missing service book. Mr S remained 
unhappy and brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
She set out the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr S had signed that required him to 
return the car in good condition for its age and mileage. She also referred to the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines which set out in some detail 
what is regarded as fair wear and tear.
She reviewed the inspectors report and noted the damage went beyond fair wear and tear 
and so she concluded that Black Horse was entitled to charge Mr S for it. She agreed that 
Black Horse had made an error in sending out the arrears letter, but she thought the offer of 
£100 was fair and reasonable. She also noted that the issue of the missing service book was 
no longer an issue and Black Horse had written off that charge.
Mr S didnt agree and said there was no guarantee that this damage wasnt done on the 
recovery van. He reiterated that the inspector had told him the car was in good condition and 
he wondered why the car had been driven with a supposedly dangerous tyre.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has set out the background and the detail of this complaint in her written 
opinion and I trust both parties will accept that it is not necessary for me to repeat that in this 
decision.
In short, Mr S entered into an agreement which said he would pay for any damage to the car 
at the end of the agreement which went beyond fair wear and tear. I cannot say what the 
inspector said, but as our investigator has stated the report and photographs are clear. I am 
satisfied the inspector followed the standard set down in the BVRLA guidelines and the 
damage went beyond fair wear and tear.
The report is signed by Mr S and confirmed his agreement with it so I cannot say that the 
damage occurred after the car was taken away. He was also notified of what to expect on 
the collection of the car and he was given the opportunity to repair any damage before as 
necessary.
I agree that the business got it wrong when it sent out the arrears letter in advance of the 
details of the damage. However, it responded appropriately in offering Mr S £100. It also 
reduced the charge by £100 as a goodwill gesture and in so doing it wiped off the charge for 
the missing service book.
In conclusion I dont consider I can ask Black Horse to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman