DRN-3962694
The complaint
Mr D complains that ReAssure Life Limited cancelled his life policy without his consent.
What happened
In early 2022 ReAssure wrote to Mr D saying his policy was due to mature soon. 
Mr D complained to ReAssure saying he hadnt received previous correspondence and 
didnt want  the policy to mature.  
ReAssure said that to extend the policy Mr D would need to have let them know at least 12 
months before the maturity date. They asked their actuarial department if a late extension 
was possible, but the request was declined. 
When dealing with Mr D ReAssure gave him some incorrect information about the possibility 
of an extension. To apologise for the incorrect information they paid him £100 compensation. 
Remaining unhappy Mr D brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought ReAssure had sent clear information 
about the renewal on a statement in 2020 and in a separate letter in January 2021.  
Mr D disagreed saying he didnt receive the statement or letter and that he thought the 
maturity date was incorrect.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr D that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised 
some of what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service.
Where there is missing, incomplete or conflicting evidence, such as there is here, Ive come 
to a decision on the balance of probabilities about what I think is most likely to have 
happened. 
Ive seen copies of the statement from February 2020 and the letter from 18 January 2021. 
These both explain that to extend the policy ReAssure needs to be notified at least one year 
before the maturity date. Both of these also show the maturity date as 28 February 2022.
Mr D says that he didnt receive these letters and didnt know about the issue until he 
received another letter in early January 2022 saying the policy was going to mature. It was 
then that he contacted ReAssure. 
Looking at what happened I think ReAssure posted the statements and the letter. I cant say 
why they werent received by Mr D but by sending them I think they have fulfilled their 
obligations. ReAssure also say they didnt receive any returned post so there was no reason 
to think there might be a problem.
ReAssure didnt hear from Mr D within the required time so I think the policy correctly 
matured.
Mr D raised an issue about the maturity date of the policy. It seems that the maturity date did 
change from when the policy was taken out. This was because of a previous extension 
which changed the date. Mr D also said there had been a telephone conversation where an 
extension had been agreed and that the requirement for one years notice of extension was 
removed. I havent seen any record of this conversation and the change Mr D says was 
agreed isnt reflected in the paperwork about the policy. 
ReAssure gave Mr D some incorrect information when looking into his policy. To apologise 
they paid him £100 which I think is a fair and reasonable payment for what happened. The 
wrong information gave Mr D an incorrect expectation about the ability to extend the policy. 
And I think the apology and payment is enough to put things right.  
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied ReAssure acted fairly 
and reasonably when dealing with Mr D and I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman