DRN-3295312
The complaint
Ms B complains Sainsburys Bank Plc failed to honour a claim she made under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), or otherwise refund her in a dispute about a 
purchase she made on her credit card.
What happened
Ms B ordered some lighting from a specialist online store early in September 2019, paying 
for some of the items on a personal credit card with Sainsburys and the others on a 
business credit card with another bank.
The order was delayed and Ms B only received some of the items. The items ordered using 
the Sainsburys card are outlined in the table below:
Item Quantity Item Price Total Price Delivered
Ceiling Light 33cm 3 £80.95 £242.85 No
6W E27 LED - dimmable 3 £10.95 £32.86 Yes
Pendant Light 31cm 1 £98.96 £98.96 No
5.5W E14 LED -
dimmable6 £5.95 £35.71 Yes
Ceiling Light 71.5 cm 1 £203.95 £203.95 Yes
Up/Down Wall Light 
19.7cm1 £143.95 £143.95 No
Shipping (personal) 1 £7.99 £7.99 Yes
Ms B successfully claimed a refund from her other bank for the items purchased using the 
business credit card. Sainsburys refused to refund her however, because it didnt feel it had 
enough information to understand the refund claim. The bank closed Ms Bs claim and 
rejected her complaint about its decision to do so. She subsequently brought the complaint 
to this service.
After Ms Bs case came to this service, the focus of the dispute over the refund shifted. The 
question became whether or not Ms B had ordered the lighting on her Sainsburys card for 
business purposes. Prior to the case being passed to me to decide, our case handler had 
concluded Sainsburys should have refunded £314.32, this being a refund of any items 
which hed concluded hadnt been bought for business purposes. Our case handler 
concluded the basis for Sainsburys liability to provide a refund was section 75 of the CCA. 
Sainsburys disagreed as it considered all of the items had been bought for business 
purposes, and the case was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 20 January 2022. In this I drew the 
following main conclusions:
Section 75 protection applied to just one of the items on Ms Bs order (underlined in 
the table on page 1). This was because this protection only applies to items which 
have a cash price of over £100.
It wasnt relevant whether or not Ms B had bought the lighting for business purposes 
(although I didnt think she had). Sometimes making a purchase for a business could 
cause section 75 protection not to apply. However, in this set of circumstances this 
would only be a problem if Ms Bs business was a different legal entity to her. She 
appeared to be a sole trader, meaning the issue didnt arise.
Sainsburys should have attempted a chargeback for the missing items. Ms B had 
asked that the bank consider this in her initial letter to it where she explained what 
had happened, but it hadnt taken this forward. Id only have expected Sainsburys to 
have attempted a chargeback if there was a reasonable prospect of this process 
being successful. But my view was that Ms B had provided enough evidence with her 
initial letter for the bank to attempt a chargeback for the missing items and have a 
reasonable prospect of success.
The bank had been wrong not to attempt a chargeback, and I thought it should 
therefore treat Ms B as thought it had attempted one and it had been successful. I 
analysed how much of a refund Ms B should have received, taking into account a 
discount shed received from the store. I thought she could theoretically have claimed 
a refund of £388.61. However, shed only claimed £322.31 when she wrote to 
Sainsburys and this was the amount Id have expected the bank to charge back. At 
the time it wouldnt have been obvious necessarily that Ms B could have claimed 
more and I didnt think it would be fair and reasonable to order Sainsburys to pay the 
difference.
Concluding, I said I was minded to order Sainsburys to pay Ms B £322.31 plus 
compensatory interest calculated from the point it received her request for a refund, 
to the date she received the refund.
I asked both parties to respond to my provisional decision by 3 February 2022. Ms B 
provided evidence from HMRC that she was indeed a sole trader, but said she had nothing 
else to add. 
Sainsburys acknowledged receiving the provisional decision but had offered no further 
comments by the expiry of the deadline. This morning the bank asked for some additional 
time to make further comments as it had intended to reply by the deadline but had 
experienced some technical and operational issues yesterday which had prevented it from 
doing so. I agreed an extension of a few hours to allow the bank to send the submissions it 
had been unable to send yesterday.
Ive now received those submissions, in which Sainsburys says that it broadly agrees with 
the provisional decision and, although it thinks it didnt have enough information to carry out 
a successful chargeback, it could have obtained what it needed from Ms B had it considered 
this avenue for obtaining a refund. So it will agree to pay the redress outlined in the 
provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms B for providing evidence that she is a sole trader. Whether or not Sainsburys 
should have attempted a chargeback is not dependent on her status as a sole trader or 
otherwise (although it could have been relevant to her prospective section 75 claim), so 
although this information is helpful it doesnt change my findings.
Having considered the available evidence again, I see no reason to change the findings I 
made in my provisional decision and which Ive summarised above. I acknowledge 
Sainsburys point that it did not have enough information to carry out a successful 
chargeback when it was first contacted by Ms B. This may or may not be the case. But the 
bank notes (and I agree) that it could have obtained any information it needed had it 
considered a chargeback as a possibility. So the outcome of the complaint isnt changed by 
this.
It follows that I think Sainsburys treated Ms B unfairly by failing to consider or attempt a 
chargeback, and that it should treat her as though it had successfully charged back the 
amount she requested originally.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Bs complaint and order Sainsbury Bank Plc to:
Pay Ms B £322.31.
Pay 8% simple interest per year* on the above refund, calculated from the date the 
bank received Ms Bs request to consider a section 75 claim or chargeback, to the 
date the refund is made to her.
*If Sainsburys considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much its taken off. It should also give Ms B a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman