DRN-4297305
The complaint
Mr E complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr E was provided with a credit card in July 2018 by Virgin Money with a credit limit of 
£1,800. Mr E says that he built up a large debt on the card and used it for gambling. He 
doesnt think he should have been provided with the credit and that his gambling should 
have been identified.
Virgin Money issued a final response letter dated 1 February 2023. It said that checks were 
carried out before the credit card was provided and that Mr E had a 14 day cooling off period 
which he could have used if he didnt think he would be able to maintain the payments due 
under the card. It said that Mr E contacted it about his gambling in February 2020 and he 
was transferred to its specialist support team. Virgin Money noted that using the credit card 
for gambling was a breach of the terms and conditions and a block was applied to the card 
and Mr E was signposted to the appropriate charities. Following this payment plans were set 
up. Virgin Money said that as payment hadnt then been received this had been reported on 
Mr Es credit file. Virgin Money offered Mr E £100 as a gesture of goodwill due to the time it 
had taken to respond to his complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought that Virgin Money had carried out 
adequate checks before providing Mr E with the credit card with a £1,800 credit limit. He said 
the checks didnt suggest the credit limit was unaffordable. Our investigator also thought that 
Virgin Money had acted reasonably when Mr E contacted it about his gambling.
Mr E didnt agree with our investigators view. He thought his income should have been 
verified before the lending was provided  he didnt think a credit check was enough to 
establish if the credit was affordable. He said that he was using his credit card for gambling 
for a long time before he contacted Virgin Money and that Virgin Money should have 
identified this and taken action sooner. He said that had this happened he wouldnt have got 
into so much debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to 
carry out, it just needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: 
the type and amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total 
cost of the credit and the consumers circumstances.
In this case before Mr E was provided with the credit card Virgin Money gathered information 
about Mr Es employment and income. Mr Es application stated he had been working for 
two years and had an annual income of £25,000. Mr E didnt record any payments for a 
mortgage, and this was supported by the outcome of the credit search. The credit search 
undertaken by Virgin Money showed Mr E had no accounts in default, nor delinquent 
accounts and no county court judgements and no unsecured debt. Given the credit search 
didnt raise any concerns that Mr E might be struggling financially, and the credit card being 
provided was the only unsecured debt Mr E would have, I find the checks carried out were 
proportionate. I understand that Mr E feels his income should have been verified but, in this 
case, I find it reasonable that his declared income was relied on.
As I think the checks were reasonable, I have considered what these showed in regard to 
the affordability of the credit provided. Mr E has said that he quickly used the credit available 
to him. While I note the comment, I am considering the information available to Virgin Money 
at the time of Mr Es application and whether this suggested the credit limit of £1,800 was 
affordable to Mr E. Having considered Mr Es declared income at the time, his employment 
and that he didnt have other debts, I do not find I can say that Virgin Money should have 
been concerned that the £1,800 credit limit would be unaffordable. 
Mr E has said that he used the credit card to gamble. When he informed Virgin Money of this 
Virgin Money transferred Mr E to its specialist team to provide him with assistance and to 
discuss a payment plan as he had requested. As use of the credit card for gambling was a 
breach of the terms and conditions a permanent block was placed on the card to prevent 
further spending and Virgin Money signposted Mr E to relevant charities that might be able 
to assist him. I find these actions reasonable and in line with the account terms and 
conditions. Virgin Money then worked with Mr E by agreeing payment plans but as Mr E 
didnt maintain the payments agreed under the payment plans, a default notice was issued. 
Having considered the actions Virgin Money took since Mr E contacted it about his gambling, 
I find it did try to assist him and to work with both Mr E and the debt companies that 
contacted it on Mr Es behalf. As payments werent maintained and Virgin Money attempted 
to contact Mr E about this on several occasions, I do not find it did anything wrong by taking 
further action.
Mr E says that Virgin Money should have noticed that he was using his credit card to fund 
his gambling and taken action sooner. He said that had this happened he wouldnt have got 
into the amount of debt he did. I understand the point Mr E is making, but I do not find I can 
say Virgin Money did anything wrong by not identifying the gambling, instead I have 
considered its actions when it did become aware of the situation. And as I have set out 
above, I find the actions it took were reasonable. 
Based on the above reasons, I do not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman