DRN-1147363
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDFC) is requiring him to 
repay a loan he took out on Buy Now Pay Later terms (BNPL) for a dishwasher. It turned 
out to be faulty and was due to be returned to its manufacturer. He brings this complaint 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened 
In September 2018 Mr B placed an order online with SDFCs associated company Shop 
Direct Home Shopping Limited (SDHS) for a dishwasher at a cash price of £249.99. He 
agreed to pay for it on BNPL terms using his SDFC credit agreement. 
Shortly after the dishwasher was delivered it developed a fault. In February 2019 Mr B 
contacted the manufacturer (M), who accepted it was faulty and gave him an uplift 
reference number to pass on to SDHS. 
SDHS checked the reference number with M to ensure it was valid. Mr B ordered a 
replacement dishwasher from SDHS, who told him M would be in touch to arrange collection 
of the old dishwasher. In advance of this, SDFC arranged a provisional credit for the old 
dishwasher on his BNPL loan.
A few days later, Mr B spoke to SDHS to ask when the old dishwasher would be collected. It 
said he should allow three to five days for M to contact him, and a further fourteen to twenty 
one days for collection. 
In June 2019, SDHS contacted Mr B to ask if the dishwasher had been collected. He said M 
had told him he could leave it in an alleyway outside his house, as it was taking up room in 
his kitchen. It wasnt there any more, so he assumed M had collected it.
SDHS checked with M, who said no collection arrangements had been made, so it hadnt 
collected the old dishwasher. When SDFC received this information, it reversed the 
provisional credit on his account and re-debited the £249.99 cost to it.
Mr B complained to SDFC. He said it was SDHS who told him during a phone call in June 
2019 that he could leave the old dishwasher in the alleyway.  SDFC said all orders and 
returns were dealt with by SDHS. It had searched SDHSs systems and couldnt find 
evidence of any discussion about where the item Mr B wanted to return should be left.
SDFC said it couldnt accept any liability for the loss of the dishwasher. As it hadnt been 
returned, Mr B would have to pay for it, with interest until the balance owed was cleared. Mr 
B didnt accept this and complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said it seemed 
SDHS hadnt sent a collection request to M as it should have, asking M to arrange to collect 
the old dishwasher. So M hadnt collected it, and said it had no contact with Mr B about 
arrangements for this. SDHSs records showed one phone call with Mr B on 18 February 2019 during which he was 
told M would be in touch within three to five days, and collection would take fourteen to 
twenty one days. The next contact according to its records was when SDHS phoned him in 
June 2019 to ask if the dishwasher had been collected.
Mr B said he had a further phone call with SDHS after 18 June 2019 in which it told him he 
could leave the old dishwasher outside while he waited for it to be collected. However there 
was no record of such a call on SDHSs systems, and Mr B was unable to provide any 
evidence of this from his own phone records.
SDHS said it wouldnt have advised it was fine to leave the dishwasher outside, especially 
as it was to be collected by M, not SDHS. As there was no evidence to support Mr Bs claim 
that he was told he could leave the dishwasher outside, the investigator said he couldnt 
blame SDHS for this. So he couldnt ask SDFC to re-credit the cost of the dishwasher to his 
account.
SDFC accepted the investigators recommendation. However it said it had wrongly started 
charging interest for the dishwasher on Mr Bs account before it was due to start under the 
BNPL arrangement. It said it would correct this, and pay Mr B compensation of £30 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr B asked for his complaint to be reviewed. So it has been passed to me to issue a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
This complaint has been brought against SDFC. If Im to uphold the complaint I need to be 
satisfied that:
SDFC itself has done something wrong in the way it has dealt with Mr B; or
there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by SDHS in relation to the faulty 
dishwasher which has caused Mr B a loss  under section 75, SDFC would then be 
responsible for this in the same way as SDHS.
 
When the dishwasher became faulty, Mr B contacted M and SDHS. It was accepted that the 
dishwasher could be rejected and he bought a replacement. He was told M would arrange to 
collect it.
SDHS should have started the process by contacting M, but it seems it failed to do so. On 
the evidence available, Im not persuaded Mr B had any contact with SDHS, SDFC, or M 
after the phone call of 18 February 2019 until SDHS phoned him in June 2019. So Im not 
persuaded that any of them told him to leave the old dishwasher in the alleyway outside his 
house.
SDHS should have initiated the collection process. However I cant say this was the reason 
for the loss of the dishwasher. I think that was caused by Mr B leaving it unattended outside 
his house. And I cant say anyone other than Mr B was responsible for that.
As Mr B failed to return the dishwasher, I think SDHS was entitled to be paid for it , and 
SDFC was entitled to re-debit the cost to his loan account and seek repayment according to 
the BNPL terms Mr B agreed.SDFC has acknowledged it charged interest incorrectly, and says it will refund this plus £30 
compensation. I dont think it needs to do anything more in respect of this complaint.
 My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman