DRN-1438058
The complaint
Mr M complains that esure Services Limited automatically renewed his car insurance policy 
without his permission and took payment from his bank account.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr M took out a car insurance policy with esure. He paid for the cover in full 
using his bank card. 
esure wrote to Mr M on 3 August 2019 to explain his policy would automatically renew and 
that theyd collect the premium three days before the renewal date using the latest card 
details hed provided. The letter also explained that if Mr M didnt want the policy to renew 
then he should contact esure at least five days prior to the renewal date.
The renewal payment was taken by esure on 30 August 2019. Mr M contacted them a few 
days later to complain theyd automatically renewed his policy without his authority and that 
the payment was debited from an expired card. The policy was subsequently cancelled and, 
after Mr M provided new payment details, the full amount was refunded on 7 September 
2019.
esure didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said their renewal letter of 3 August 2019 
explained the policy would automatically renew and that if Mr M didnt want this to happen, 
he should call them to let them know.  But as they received no contact, the policy was 
automatically renewed. esure acknowledged Mr Ms dissatisfaction with having to provide 
new payment details so that the premium could be refunded. But they explained that as the 
previous card details they held had expired they were unable to provide a cheque, as Mr M 
requested, in these circumstances. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator looked in to it but he didnt think 
esure had acted unfairly. He thought esure had made it clear to Mr M, in the policy booklet 
and the renewal letter, that the policy would be renewed. So he didnt think they had to do 
anything further.
Mr M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Before I go on to explain what Ive decided I want to clarify that Im only looking at Mr Ms 
complaint about his insurance policy being automatically renewed. Im aware hes also 
raised a complaint about a claim made against his policy but I wont be considering that 
here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to same 
conclusions as the investigator and for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why.
The policy booklet provided to Mr M at the start of the policy explains under the Renewal 
information section that:If you pay your premium by credit/debit card and you have agreed to Continuous 
Payment Authority (CPA), we will automatically renew your policy using the payment 
details you have given us. Your renewal documents will tell you whether we are able 
to renew your policy on this basis.
 
As part of their payment process, esure ask customers who pay by card whether they 
consent to their card details being stored to allow renewals to continue automatically. 
Unfortunately, the part of the call when Mr M provided his card details to pay for the first year 
of cover isnt available. This is because esure dont record customers payment details to 
keep them safe. I therefore cant be sure whether Mr M did, or didnt, consent to CPA.  Ive 
therefore considered what, on balance, I think is most likely here.
The policy booklet says:
Before the renewal date of your policy, we will provide you with details of the terms 
on which your policy may be renewed and any chances to the policy cover. We will 
also tell you what you need to do to renew the policy.
 
And the policy renewal document sent to Mr M said:
Well automatically renew your policy for you. All you need to do is take a few 
moments to:

Your policy will renew and well simply collect your premium three days prior to your 
renewal date from the latest debit or credit card details you provided.
Given that it is part of esures call script to obtain consent for CPA, the renewal 
documentation suggests Mr M agreed to this  and thereby the automatic renewal of his 
policy - at the time of setting up the first year of cover. And as its relatively common for car 
insurance policies to be set up on an automatic renewal basis, I think this it what most likely 
happened. But in any event, Mr M ought to have known this would happen upon receipt of 
the renewal letter. This also explained that should he not want the policy to be renewed, he 
should contact them at least five days before the renewal date otherwise it may be too late 
stop them collecting the premium.
Mr M says he didnt receive this renewal letter and that he did call esure to tell them he didnt 
want the policy renewed. While Ive considered these points, Im satisfied the renewal letter 
was sent and as it was correctly addressed, I think its more likely than not it was 
successfully delivered. But even if it wasnt, I dont think I can fairly hold esure responsible 
for any mailing issues. Ive also listened to the available calls between Mr M and esure but I 
havent been able to confirm he told them he didnt want the policy renewed prior to raising 
the issue in early September 2019. Because of this, I dont think esure acted unreasonably 
by taking the payment.
Im aware Mr M questions how the payment was taken as his card had expired and he 
hadnt provided esure with his new card details. Although I understand his concern, I think it 
would be helpful for me to explain that a CPA agreement allows a company to take payment 
from an account rather than the card. So although Mr Ms card had expired, this didnt cancel 
the CPA agreement he had with esure or prevent them from taking the payment. For Mr M to 
cancel the CPA that was set up he had to contact esure or his card provider to request this. 
Ive not seen anything to show this happened.The policy terms say that an administration charge (£26) is applicable for policies cancelled 
within the 14 day cooling off period. Although Mr Ms policy was cancelled in this period, 
esure has provided him with a full refund. And so, while I understand Mr M may feel 
dissatisfied, he hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of what happened. So I dont think 
esure has to do anything further.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr M is hoping for but I dont think esure has acted unfairly, or 
outside the terms of the policy, when renewing his policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman