DRN-1027027
 
The complaint
Mr D complains about the technical difficulties and poor customer service he experienced 
from MBNA Limited when he tried to make balance and money transfers. 
What happened
Mr D opened a credit card account with MBNA in March 2019. On 16 April 2019 he said he 
tried to complete a balance transfer online for £1,094.34, but that he experienced technical 
difficulties. He called MBNA. After hearing conflicting information about the website he 
completed the balance transfer by phone and made a complaint. MBNA gave him £50 for 
the inconvenience. 
Mr D said he then attempted to complete a money transfer for £1,000 online and again 
experienced technical difficulties. He said after a very lengthy telephone call the money 
transfer was concluded. Following this Mr D said he received a text message advising that 
he had completed two money transfers to a total of £2,095. He said he was alarmed by this 
message as he hadn't completed two money transfers, but one money transfer and a 
balance transfer, to a total of £2,094.34. He said that MBNA had verified the transactions 
had gone ahead over the phone, so he was confused as to why the text was sent. He 
complained again but after the phone call he wasn't sure if the complaint would be dealt 
with. 
Later that day Mr D said he received several automated calls from the fraud prevention team 
at MBNA. He said after a difficult conversation MBNA confirmed the calls had been in 
relation to the transactions he had made earlier in the day. Mr D thought this was odd. He 
complained further. He said he had received poor customer service and his time had been 
abused. 
In its final response in July MBNA upheld Mr D's complaint. It responded to each point of Mr 
D's complaint and said it had agreed compensation with him which had been credited on 16 
April 2019. Mr D brought his complaint to the service. 
The investigator said that all parties had agreed failures had occurred and the service 
MBNA provided could've been better. He said the £50 compensation payment was more 
than fair for Mr D's initial complaint about the balance transfer and that taking into account 
the incorrect advice and poor service at a later stage the £50 payment became a more 
appropriate figure. 
Mr D disagreed with this view and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He also 
believed that the investigator's factual representation was inaccurate and referred back to 
his original complaint. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr D but, having done so, I won't be asking MBNA to do anything further. 
First, I've seen that Mr D has made numerous points in support of his complaint. I know I've 
summarised the complaint in far less detail and in my own words. I'm not going to respond to 
every single point made by Mr D. No discourtesy is meant by this. If I don't mention 
something this isn't because I've ignored it, I haven't. I'm satisfied I don't need to comment 
on every point to be able to reach what I believe is the right outcome. 
Mr D has complained that he twice experienced technical difficulties using MBNA's online 
banking system when making his money and balance transfers. MBNA has said that 
following an internal investigation it couldn't find any technical issues. I am not disputing 
either party. It's very possible Mr D did have difficulty and it's also possible these technical 
issues may have been independent of MBNA's system. But I'm satisfied Mr D was able to 
complete the transactions over the phone on the same day.
I can see that Mr D had a number of calls with MBNA on 16 April and the information 
discussed and provided caused Mr D confusion. He also received, what he thought were 
unnecessary, messages from MBNA's fraud department. After having difficulty making both 
the transfers online and then apparently successfully completing them on the telephone I 
can understand why Mr D was frustrated that he received messages concerning the 
transfers.
It is normal for banks to have processes in place to prevent fraud and money laundering. It's 
not my role to examine those practices, that's the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. My 
role is to ensure the process has been applied fairly. Mr D made two transfers in a short 
space of time to a new credit card account and I think it's reasonable for MBNA to apply its 
anti-fraud process, which included sending Mr D texts to prompt him to call into the bank. 
Though I do understand that this was inconvenient for him. 
I recognise that some of Mr D's complaint about customer service on 16 April extended 
beyond the point at which MBNA  paid him £50 compensation. But I'm satisfied that MBNA 
was carrying out its normal anti fraud processes which, though inconvenient, were 
nonetheless reasonable. And while it was unfortunate that Mr D was told the fraud 
department had closed - when it hadn't - and there was some confusion about whether the 
complaint could be reopened, I'm satisfied that £50 is fair and reasonable compensation.
Mr D said he normally charges £150 per hour and that his time was abused. I can see he 
spent a lot of time on 16 April trying to sort out the transfers. Our approach to when 
businesses should give customers compensation for their trouble and upset recognises that 
we all experience a certain amount of inconvenience in our day to day dealings with 
businesses. I dont think Mr D experienced a material level of inconvenience above and 
beyond that, so I wouldn't expect him to receive a great amount of compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman