DRN-3022423
The complaint
Mrs S complains about NewDay Ltd trading as Aquas (Aqua) decision to increase her 
credit limit.  
  
What happened
Mrs S was accepted for a credit card by Aqua in June 2019 and given an initial credit limit of 
£450. Mrs S says she used this account for gambling and, despite being close to her limit, 
Aqua increased her credit limit to £1,200 in September. Mrs S says, between this period, she 
had increased her borrowing with other lenders and had defaulted on another account. So, 
Mrs S complained to Aqua as she felt they didnt carry out sufficient checks before 
increasing her credit limit. 
Aqua responded and explained the checks they carried out when Mrs S first applied for the 
credit card. They explained Mrs S met their acceptance criteria so an account was opened 
with a credit limit of £450. Aqua said they then reviewed Mrs Ss account in September as 
she became eligible for a credit limit increase and wrote to her offering her an opportunity to 
opt out. Aqua said Mrs S didnt contact them to opt out so the increase took effect. 
Aqua said they had no way of knowing Mrs S had a gambling problem at the time she 
applied for the credit card. But, having reviewed her transactions she made prior to the credit 
limit increase and after, they didnt feel it was appropriate to have increased her credit limit. 
So, Aqua upheld Mrs Ss complaint and refunded a proportionate amount of interest until 
May 2020 together with a £12 over limit fee and £108 in cash advance fees. Aqua said they 
didnt feel it was appropriate to lower the credit limit to £450 in light of what Mrs S had told 
them about her personal circumstances. So, they explained they had closed Mrs Ss account 
for further purchases. Aqua also explained they have a duty to report accurate information to 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) so if Mrs S wanted to set up a reduced payment 
arrangement, they would need to report this to the CRAs. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S. He thought Aqua should refund interest and 
charges on any balances over the initial limit of £450 instead of it being up until May 2020. 
Mrs S agreed but Aqua disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mrs S. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. Aqua have admitted they got things wrong when they increased Mrs Ss credit limit 
to £1,200. The only issue I have to decide is whether the steps theyve taken to put things 
right are fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Aqua should put things right for Mrs S as she was provided with, and 
using, a credit limit which shouldnt have been in place. Aqua have provided a calculation 
which shows they have refunded the proportion of interest charged on balances over £450 
between October 2019 and April 2020  and this is the sum of £159.39. Mrs Ss May 2020 
statement shows the actual interest refund given to her is greater than this. Aqua say this is 
because it also factors in the interest applied in May 2020. Looking at the figures, I think 
Aquas explanation is correct and the refund has taken into account the interest charged in 
May 2020. Aqua say they arent prepared to refund any interest and charges beyond May 
2020 as this is when they issued their final response to Mrs Ss complaint and she then had 
an opportunity to bring her balance down to £450. 
Ive looked at the statements from June 2020 to November 2020, and Ive set out what they 
show in the table below: 
   
Month Balance Interest
June 2020 £641.83 £16.12
July 2020 £583.46 £15.70
August 2020 £567.38 £15.67
September 2020 £550.32 £14.21
October 2020 £498.67 £13.22
November 2020 £484.51 £12.77
 
Mrs S does bring her balance below £450 in December 2020. But, through the period shown 
in the table, Mrs Ss account balance is still above £450 and her account is accruing interest 
on the full balance. The statements for this period show the account is closed and no further 
purchases are made by Mrs S. And, Mrs S only makes the contractual minimum payment for 
most of these six months. So, its reasonable to conclude that it was going to take Mrs S a 
while to bring the balance down to £450 even though she wasnt making any further 
purchases. Given that Aqua accept the credit limit shouldnt have been increased beyond 
£450, I dont think they have done enough to put things right and to return Mrs S to the 
position she wouldve been in had they not increased the limit. 
Aqua have taken the correct approach in refunding the over limit fee and the cash advance 
fees. But, while I think they have taken the correct approach to the interest refund, I dont 
think theyve applied it to the full period they should have. Mrs S shouldnt have found herself 
in a position where her credit limit went beyond £450, yet this continued up until November 
2020. So, I think its reasonable for Aqua to refund all interest and charges for balances 
above the initial limit of £450.   
I note Aqua say Mrs S has had the benefit of the funds on the account and therefore interest 
charged on any proportion of the balance in excess of £450 is valid. Im satisfied Mrs S has 
had the benefit of the money above the £450 limit and its fair that she should pay the 
principal amount back. But, this limit shouldnt have been increased  and Aqua accept that. 
So, its not fair for Aqua to benefit from any interest and charges over any period where the 
balance exceeded £450.    
Putting things right
Aqua have accepted they got things wrong when they increased Mrs Ss credit limit above 
the initial limit of £450. They have already refunded interest and charges from October 2019 to May 2020. So, they should refund all interest, fees, and charges accrued or incurred on 
the account relating to any balance above £450 from June 2020 onwards. This would put 
Mrs S back in the position she would have been in were it not for the credit limit increase. 
Any refund should be deducted from the amount Mrs S owes and if this results in the 
account having a credit balance in Mrs Ss favour, Aqua must pay this amount to Mrs S 
together with 8% simple interest, calculated from the dates of any overpayments to the date 
that the payment is made to Mrs S. If the balance has already been cleared then Aqua 
should pay the refund to Mrs S together with 8% simple interest, calculated from the dates of 
any overpayments to the date that the payment is made to Mrs S. 
  
If there is such a refund, then Aqua should provide Mrs S with a certificate showing any 
taxation deducted
Aqua must also remove all adverse reporting relating to this account from Mrs Ss credit file 
from September 2019 onwards.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua must take the 
steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman