DRN-2634386
The complaint
Mrs H believes Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans, acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing a loan shed applied for.
What happened
On 8 December 2015, Mrs H took out a £2,000 loan with Oakbrook, to be repaid over 24 
months with repayments of £122.14 a month starting January 2016. The loan was repaid in 
full in December 2017.
Mrs H complained that Oakbrook didnt act responsibly when approving the loan. She said 
Oakbrook shouldnt have approved it because she had a poor credit history at the time of 
applying, and the loan wasnt affordable. Oakbrook didnt agree theyd done anything wrong, 
so Mrs H brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Oakbrook checked Mrs Hs income and expenditure which showed 
the loan was affordable. She also said that Oakbrook carried out a credit search which, while 
it showed two missed payments in the previous 12-months, didnt show any defaults or 
CCJs. The investigator thought that Oakbrook had considered all of this when making their 
decision, and she hadnt seen anything to show they shouldnt have agreed the loan. So she 
didnt think Oakbrook needed to do anything more.
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator and she provided copies of her bank statements for 
the period 29 August 2015 to 1 February 2018. While the investigator didnt think Oakbrook 
needed to ask for these, she reviewed them as if they had. And she said there was one loan 
of £158 a month that wasnt visible to Oakbrook on the credit search they did. But, taking this 
into consideration, and that Mrs Hs income was around £220 a month lower than shed told 
Oakbrook, the investigator still said that the loan was affordable. So she didnt think 
Oakbrooks decision wouldve changed if they had seen the bank statements.
Mrs H still didnt agree with the investigator, and shes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
themselves that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. 
Where reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the 
lending decision was fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I 
need to consider if the loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
I also need to consider whether the lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Did Oakbrook complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs H 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Ive seen the documents Oakbrook checked at the time they approved Mrs Hs loan. On her 
application for the loan, Mrs H said she was a home owner with no mortgage. And she said 
she had a gross income of £24,000 with a monthly expenditure of £400. In an email sent 
during the application process, Mrs H also told Oakbrook that she intended to use this loan 
to repay an existing credit commitment.
The regulations relating to this type of lending  CONC 5.3.7R  say that Oakbrook are 
entitled to rely on the information declared by Mrs H, where theres nothing to indicate that 
Mrs H was being untruthful.
Oakbrook explained they dont have the physical credit report from the time Mrs H made her 
application, but they extract the data into an overview report. Theyve provided the overview 
report, which shows that Mrs D had outstanding credit commitments totalling £3,500.
Based on the income shed declared, Oakbrook estimated Mrs Hs monthly income to be 
£1,617. The total payments to the credit commitments showing on the overview report were 
£111 and Mrs H had declared £400 monthly expenditure. So Oakbrook calculated that she 
had £1,106 disposable income each month with which to pay their loan payment of £122. 
And, because Mrs H intended to use the loan to repay another credit commitment, the 
amount of disposable income she actually had would be higher than this.
Oakbrook have also provided a more recent credit report, which shows the historic details 
they wouldve used at the time to produce their overview report.
This credit report shows that Mrs H had a missed payment on a credit card in March 2015, 
and a missed payment on a mail order account in September 2015. These accounts were 
brought up to date the month following the missed payment, so these couldve just been late 
payments. All other credit commitments were up to date with no missed payments. And 
there were no defaults or CCJs recorded.
The credit report also showed that Mrs H had had two payday loans in the 14-months before 
applying to Oakbrook, but these were both paid off in full, and all payments were paid when 
due. There was no indication from this report of any reliance on payday lending, or of any 
other financial problems.
Different lenders have different lending criteria, and I wouldnt expect Oakbrook to decline 
Mrs Hs application because of two historic instances of late/missed payments. But I would 
expect them to consider these as part of their overall lending criteria. And I havent seen 
anything to show me that Oakbrook didnt do this.
So, based on the above information, Im satisfied that the loan was affordable for Mrs H. 
And, because none of the information Oakbrook obtained indicated that Mrs H was being 
untruthful with the information shed provided, Im also satisfied that Oakbrook were able to 
rely on this. And, because of this, Im satisfied that the checks they did were reasonable and 
proportionate for the loan being applied for.Im aware that Mrs H has provided bank statements for the period just before she applied for 
the loan with Oakbrook, and she believes these show that Oakbrook shouldnt have 
approved the loan. But Ive not seen that she provided these bank statements to Oakbrook 
at the time. And, for the reasons already given, Im satisfied that Oakbrook didnt need to do 
any additional checks  including asking for bank statements. So I cant say that Oakbrook 
have done anything wrong by not taking into consideration things they werent aware of at 
the time.
Did Oakbrook act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Oakbrook acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint about Oakbrook Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman