DRN-4130475
The complaint
Mr B says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (who Ill call CFS) unfairly declined
his claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a timeshare he was
sold.
Mr B has been represented by a professional representative and hes submitted his claim on
behalf of himself and his wife, but as Mr B is named on the credit agreement, and for
convenience, I will refer only to him in this decision. I mean no disrespect to Mr Bs wife or
his representative when doing so.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2023. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What happened
Mr B purchased a timeshare in September 2007. He financed the deal through a fixed sum
loan with CFS. The finance agreement was settled in August 2009 and Mr B has explained
that his timeshare membership has now ended.
Mr B complained to CFS in February 2021. He said that the timeshare had been
misrepresented to him and that he had a like claim against the credit provider (CFS) as he
did against the supplier under section 75 of the CCA. He said there had also been an unfair
relationship and that he therefore also had a claim under section 140A of the CCA. He also
explained that CFS hadnt conducted reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that
the credit was affordable for him. He referred to an EU Directive that said if the contract does
not accurately describe the accommodation, including the specified time the purchaser of the
timeshare has use of the accommodation, then the contract is Null and Void; he said that
applied to his agreement.
Mr B cited a number of reasons why his claim should succeed - it isnt practical to list them
all here, but Mr Bs assertion is that he wouldnt have proceeded with the timeshare deal had
it not been for the unfair relationship and the misrepresentations.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. It was her view that a court
would likely conclude that the claims under section 75 and section 140A had been made too
late. She also didnt think Mr B had provided sufficient evidence for her to conclude it was
likely the finance was unaffordable.
Mr B didnt agree. His representatives explained breaches of the law [have] resulted in the
Bank being negligent (my emphasis) as the Bank had a duty of care to the Client (Mr B) to
ensure all laws were being complied with. And, in those circumstances, they said that
Mr Bs claim wasnt time barred under the Limitations Act 1980 (LA) because Mr B was
entitled to rely on section 14A of that Act. That section explains that in some circumstances,
the limitation period can be extended to three years after the claimant first had the
knowledge required to make a claim after the date the cause of action actually accrued.
The complaint has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but I think his claims under the CCA have been made too late
and I dont think theres sufficient evidence to suggest the finance was unaffordable for him. I
cant see, however, that our investigator considered his representatives view that the
agreement was voidable so Im issuing a provisional decision on the complaint.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act (2000). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my final decision.
The Limitation Act 1980 and the Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a certain type of fixed sum
loan, as was the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of
the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a
credit agreement has the same right to make a claim against the credit provider as against
the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant to the claim under section 140A of the CCA as the
pre-contractual acts or omissions of the broker will be deemed to be the responsibility of the
lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair
relationship exists between Mr B and CFS.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mr B may have under sections 75 or 140A
but Im required to take them into account when deciding whether CFS would be reasonable
to reject Mr Bs claims.
A claim under section 75 for misrepresentation against CFS had to be made within six years
of when Mr B had everything he needed to make such a claim. And in this complaint, I think
that was when he purchased the timeshare at the Time of Sale (September 2007). After all,
he says that he entered into the agreement to purchase the timeshare because of
misrepresentations. And as the upshot of the claim was that he would not have made the
purchase but for the misrepresentations at the Time of Sale, it was at that time that he
suffered a loss because he ended up borrowing money from CFS. So, Mr B had until
September 2013 to raise a section 75 claim with CFS. As he didnt do so until February
2021, and as I cant see a reason why the limitation period is likely to be postponed in
keeping with the LA, I think its likely a court would consider his section 75 claim to be timebarred. That would give CFS a complete defence to it.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] that, when
considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit
agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was made. Here the
limitation period is six years. That is because the claim Mr B wishes to make is for
repayment of sums he has paid, which is an action for sums recoverable under statute, to
which s.9 LA applies. That meant Mr B would have to bring an action within six years of the
date the credit was repaid. Bank statements show that was in August 2009 and that means
at the latest Mr B would have needed to raise his claim under s140A by August 2015. As he
didnt raise his claim until February 2021, and as I cant see a reason why the limitation
period is likely to be postponed in keeping with the LA, I think he brought his claim too late 
which, in my view, is likely to give CFS a complete defence to it.
Section 14A of the Limitation Act 1980
This section deals with Special time limit for negligence actions where facts relevant to
cause of action are not known at date of accrual. For that section of the LA to apply, a
claimant must have a cause in negligence against the alleged defendant. Which means CFS
would have to owe a duty of care to Mr B to give rise to such a claim.
I have thought about whether CFS had such a duty to protect its customers from purchasing
timeshare products that were non-compliant with the relevant timeshare regulations, by
undertaking due diligence into the timeshare providers sales process. Having done so, I am
not persuaded that such a duty can be established based on what Ive seen.
In support of their view that section 14A can be relied upon by Mr B, his representatives
have referred me to the case of Barclays Partner Finance v FCA (2022) that they say
demonstrates the Bank is responsible for the actions of its agent. Ive already explained, I
dont dispute that sections of the CCA hold the bank responsible for pre-contractual acts or
omissions of the broker but, having read the judges decision in Barclays Partner Finance v
FCA (2022), I dont think it provides any helpful information as to why the bank should be
considered to have a duty of care in the circumstances of Mr Bs case.
Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr B may have against
the supplier or CFS has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information
available, any claim that Mr B might have against the supplier and/or CFS has most likely
exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account in
these circumstances.
So, Im not currently inclined to ask CFS to do anything further in response to Mr Bs claims
under the CCA.
Was the timeshare and therefore the loan voidable?
If the timeshare agreement was voidable, I think it likely that the related loan was also
voidable on the recission of the agreement it was used to fund and thats something that
could be considered under a section140A CCA claim.
Mr Bs representatives referred to an EU Directive, some Spanish legislation, and a Spanish
court judgment that they said, taken together, demonstrated that a timeshare that provides
for a floating week or the ability to use points to book holidays with a provider, was a
voidable agreement.
The timeshare agreement states that it is governed by English law, not Spanish law, so Idont think the Spanish judgment (which in any event relates to a different timeshare product
to Mr Bs timeshare) could be applied directly to the question as to whether the contract is
voidable under English law. Having read all of the relevant legislation, rules, and regulations,
I cannot see anything that would have the effect Mr Bs representative seek. In fact, in a
recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common problems faced by
UK owners, it was said that a floating week or points based timeshare were basic
timeshare models that were not described as being problems in and of themselves. Based
on the evidence I have seen, I do not think the timeshare agreement, nor the related credit
agreement was voidable.
Was the loan irresponsible?
Mr B says that CFS were in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit
assessment to determine whether he could afford to repay the loan. He says they had strict
obligations to complete a creditworthiness check under the Financial Conduct Authoritys
(FCAs) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) and failed to undertake those obligations.
However, when CFS lent to Mr B, CONC didnt apply to lending of the kind in question (the
FCA began its regulation of consumer credit and issued CONC on 1 April 2014) So, it isnt
relevant here. Whats more, when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a
large consideration is whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and
whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So
even if I was persuaded that CFS did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such
finding), for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that
the credit granted by CFS was likely to be unaffordable and that Mr B suffered a loss as a
result. As theres little evidence that he would have found, nor found, it difficult to repay what
he was lent by CFS, Im not persuaded it was unaffordable for him. Whilst Mr B has
explained he was earning between £12,000 and £12,500 a year and that he feels only his
earnings were taken into account, Ive not seen enough evidence to support that level of
earnings or evidence of Mr Bs outgoings to support the suggestion that repayments of a
little over £95 per month would not be sustainable for him. Im not therefore persuaded the
credit provided was unaffordable.
My provisional decision
Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further comments and evidence
Mr Bs professional representatives provided a detailed response to my provisional decision. 
The response ran to 13 pages and its not therefore, practical to list it in its entirety. In 
summary, however, they said that my decision didnt reflect the lengthy submissions they 
had made, and they referred me to the decision in Shawbrook Bank Ltd, R (On the 
Application Of) v Financial Ombudsman Service Ltd [2023] EWHC 1069 (which Ill call the 
recent High Court decision).
They said:
1. They had shown that their Clients claim shared the same characteristics as the cases 
which were reviewed in the recent High Court decision.
2. The recent High Court decision was in agreement with this Services approach to treating 
breaches of the 2010 Timeshare Regulations as material breaches, as well as linking the 
responsibility of such breaches to the Bank under S56 of the CCA. As a result, under S140A, 
the relationship between the Bank and the client was unfair.
3. The recent High Court decision covered all the points they had made in this case.4. They would not therefore see any reason for this Service not to take the same stance with 
this case as we did at that recent High Court hearing.
5. The only point not covered by the recent High Court decision was whether the Banks 
negligence due to the S140A unfair relationship caused by the Suppliers breaches of the 
timeshare law, resulted in S14A of the Limitation Act extending time for Mr B to claim against 
the Bank. They said they had provided evidence as to why S14A extended that time limit.
The bank asked:
Could we ask what your service mean by the case of Barclays Partner Finance v FCA 
(2022) that the Ombudsman says demonstrates the Bank is responsible for the actions of 
its agent. Is the Ombudsman referring to the JR application brought by BPF against FOS, or 
the Upper Tribunal proceedings which were against the FCA but which were not brought by 
BPF (Barclays Partner Finance)?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr Bs representatives dont think my provisional decision reflected their 
lengthy submissions. That was to a large extent because I decided the claim under section 
75 and section 140A of the CCA had been made out of time. That meant I couldnt consider 
many of the details of Mr Bs claims. Whilst I understand that Mr Bs representatives have 
relied upon section 14A of the Limitation Act to suggest the limitation period should be 
extended, Ive already explained why I dont agree with that, and Ive not been provided with 
any further information that would lead me to change my view on it.
Limitation wasnt an issue that was considered in the recent High Court decision, and I dont 
therefore think Ive been provided with any new information that would lead me to change 
my view, that claims made under the CCA have most likely exceeded the time limits set out 
in the LA. 
The recent High Court decision regarded fractional timeshare ownership and I cant see, and 
neither have I been taken to, any direction regarding loan affordability or whether the 
agreement should be voided, that I think  would assist in Mr Bs case.
With regard to CFSs query on which case was being referred to, for clarity, Mr Bs 
representatives had referred me to Barclays Partner Finance Applicants v The Financial 
Conduct Authority [2022] UKUT 00151 (TCC). I explained in my provisional decision that it 
was Mr Bs representatives who had suggested the case demonstrated the bank was 
responsible for the actions of its agents, it was my view merely that I didnt think the case 
provided any helpful information as to why the bank should be considered to have a duty of 
care in the circumstances of Mr Bs case.
Ultimately, I dont think Mr B, his representatives, or CFS have provided any additional 
information that would lead me to change my provisional decision on this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I therefore, dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman