DRN-2572839
The complaint
W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc wouldnt reimburse the money it lost due to an authorised 
push payment scam. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at 
length here. Briefly, an invoice raised by Ws supplier was intercepted by a fraudster who 
amended the payment details on the invoice. This was the first time W was making a 
payment to that supplier and it had no reason to doubt the accuracy of the payment details. 
It went ahead and made a payment, amounting to £24,000. 
The scam came to light a few days later when the genuine supplier contacted W for their 
payment. W immediately contacted their bank Lloyds who in turn contacted the recipients 
bank, but the funds had already been transferred out of the recipients account. So the 
receiving bank was unable to return any money to W.
W says that Lloyds should have provided it the Confirmation of Payee (CoP) service and if it 
was unable to provide then it should have informed W that it undertook no CoP when it 
made the transfer. W is also unhappy that Lloyds is not able to confirm to whom the payment 
was made. As a result, it says that it is unable to know whether it is genuinely the case that 
their supplier didnt receive the money.
One of our investigators concluded that complaint couldnt be upheld. They said, in 
summary, that the payment wasnt particularly unusual or suspicious for the bank to have 
acted upon. W didnt agree. It said that their bank statement clearly show that the name of 
the payee was its supplier, but the bank appears to have made the payment to some other 
party. It says no proof is provided by Lloyds or the receiving bank that the supplier did not 
receive the money and as such they may be trying to receive double payment from W. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear what had happened to W. I can understand why it feels that as the innocent 
party, it shouldnt lose out. But having thought very carefully, I dont think I can fairly say 
Lloyds should reimburse the sum the company unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain 
why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a complaint, Im required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Taking those into account as well, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
W when it made the transfer and when it reported the fraud; or whether the bank should 
have done more than it did.
It is not disputed that W authorised and instructed the bank to make the payment. Because 
of this, Lloyds had an obligation to follow its instruction. But there are some situations in 
which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
transfer - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds shouldve 
been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
I have reviewed Ws statements for several months leading up to the scam. In summary, 
there were several (undisputed) payments out of the account of a similar size or higher. The 
account can be said to be busy with a variety of payment transactions and a fluctuating 
account balance. When the scam payment was made, the account was overdrawn to about 
£8,000 but the account had an overdraft facility and it tended to be overdrawn time and 
again. In fact on some occasions in the preceding two months on a much higher level. So I 
am not persuaded that the account went into debit balance in itself ought to have given 
Lloyds much cause for concern. 
For these reasons, I dont think the payment W made would have stood out as being 
particularly unusual or suspicious compared to its normal account activity. So I dont think 
Lloyds acted unreasonably by not making further enquiries about the payment before 
processing it.
W has said that Lloyds failed to check the recipients name before sending the payment and 
had it done so, it could have prevented the fraud.  When a payment is made, the banks 
usually tend to use the sort code and account number entered by the payer to identify the 
receiving account. Though the intended payees name may be entered by the payer when 
making the payment, there was no agreed way of checking the name against the name of 
the account to which the sort code and account number entered relate.  However, in 2020 
the Payment Services Regulator instructed the five largest banking groups including Lloyds 
and the Nationwide Building Society to implement a process called Confirmation of Payee, 
which in effect checks the intended payees name against the actual name of the recipient 
and highlights if they didnt match. However, the payment in this case happened well before 
Confirmation of Payee was put in place. So, I cannot reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for 
this reason as the system wasnt in place at the time. W is also unhappy that Lloyds is not able to confirm to whom the payment was made. It has 
referred us to the bank statement which shows the name of the supplier as the payee. So it 
feels that it may have made the payment to the right payee and is worried whether they may 
be attempting a double recovery. The statement merely showed the name that W had input. 
But that doesnt mean the money went to an account with the same name, and as I 
mentioned earlier at the time transaction was made, Lloyds wasnt required to provide the 
CoP service. 
I can see that W is requesting the information of the recipient, so it wants to be sure that 
their intended payee didnt receive the money. The receiving bank has shared relevant 
information with this service in confidence to allow us to discharge our investigatory 
functions and has provided what was necessary for the determination of this complaint. But 
we are limited to how much of this we could share because it includes personal data. 
However, I can say that, from what I have seen, the name of the account to where the 
money went appears to be different from the name of Ws supplier.
I have also considered whether Lloyds ought to have done more to recover the payment. As 
mentioned earlier, it contacted the receiving bank on the same day they were notified of the 
scam. Overall, I dont think Lloyds could have done more in order to recover the payment. 
In summary, W was an unfortunate victim of a sophisticated scam. But, for the reasons 
outlined, I cant say Lloyds should have done more to prevent its loss. So, it wouldnt be fair 
for me to ask the bank to reimburse the payment made by W. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman