DRN-3751801
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC dealt unfairly with his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
In 2011 Mr R bought some solar panels for his home. He says he had a number of problems 
with them, they eventually stopped working and he had to pay to get them replaced.
Mr R submitted a claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 to HSBC. HSBC explained 
that Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, which it believed to be what Mr R was 
referring to, provides certain protections for purchases made on a credit card. However, it 
referred to Mr R explaining in a conversation with the bank that the payment to the solar 
panel supplier was by bank transfer, therefore not through his credit card. And that bank 
transfer payments were not covered by Section 75. HSBC also explained that it had no 
record of Mr R making a payment to the solar panel supplier on his HSBC credit card.
Unhappy with this response Mr R referred his complaint to our service, where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator explained that he had not seen 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate Mr R had purchased the solar panels through his 
HSBC credit card. And that if Mr R had used a debit card for the purchase, the time limit 
for raising a chargeback with the bank had expired.
Having reviewed Mr Rs bank statements from 2011 the investigator identified two 
cheque payments from August and September 2011 that he thought were likely to be the 
payments to the solar panel supplier. However, there were no grounds to find the bank 
liable for any failure or issues with the solar panels. And because of this, the investigator 
did not consider there to be sufficient grounds to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions and asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed. It has now been passed to me so that a final decision can be issued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all that the parties have provided, I have come to the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator, for what are broadly the same reasons. I have not upheld 
Mr Rs complaint.
Mr Rs complaint is that he is unhappy that HSBC has not upheld his claim under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act, in relation to solar panels Mr R bought in 2011. As has 
been previously explained, Section 75 provides certain protections for consumers for 
goods or services they have bought using certain types of credit. In summary, where there 
was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods a consumer 
has an equal right to claim against the credit provider.
So if Mr R was misled by the supplier of the solar panels, for example about the benefits or 
cost of the system, or if the goods or installation of the panels was not of satisfactory 
quality, HSBC might be liable for the failings of the supplier. There are however certain 
requirements for Section 75 to apply and one very particular condition relates to the type of 
payment used to pay for the goods or services. Section 75 would typically apply to credit 
cards and point of sale loans. Section 75 does not however make the bank liable for 
payments made by bank transfer, cheque or debit card.
In Mr Rs case HSBC says it is no longer able to view Mr Rs credit card statements as the 
accounts were closed so long ago. While this may be disappointing to Mr R, it is not 
perhaps unsurprising considering the solar panels were purchased around 11 years ago 
and the credit card accounts have been closed for some time.
Mr R has not provided any documentary evidence showing that the payments to the 
solar panels supplier were made using his HSBC credit card. I note in an email to our 
service Mr R says he believes he did use his credit card to make the payment, but there 
is no supporting evidence to show this was the case. Without anything to show that the 
solar panels were actually purchased using Mr Rs HSBC credit card, I dont consider 
that HSBC has treated Mr R unreasonably or unfairly by declining his claim.
The investigator identified two cheque payments from Mr Rs bank statements that he 
considered were likely to be to the solar panel supplier. Even if these cheque payments 
were to pay for the solar panels, for the reasons already set out, there would be no 
grounds for a successful claim under Section 75 against HSBC. And, nor are there any 
other grounds here that I consider would make HSBC liable for any failings of the solar 
panel supplier.
I do sympathise with Mr R as he has spent a significant sum on the solar panels, plus an 
additional sum to replace them when they became defective. But for the reasons set out 
here HSBC is not responsible and there are no grounds for me to direct HSBC to 
reimburse Mr R for the costs of the panels, the repair costs, or any other losses he has 
incurred relating to the solar panels.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against HSBC UK Bank PLC. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject 
my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman