DRN-3216073
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with several aspects of service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Ms H has a current account and a personal loan account with Barclays. In September 2020, 
Barclays had agreed payment holidays on the personal loan account, with the loan account 
payments set to resume in December 2020. 
In October 2020, Ms H approached a debt charity for assistance and the debt charity 
contacted Barclays about the loan and current account that same month. Following this, 
Barclays began chasing Ms H for payments on the loan account, even though she was still 
in a payment holiday. Ms H wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Ms Hs complaint. They accepted that they hadnt provided the standard 
of service to Ms H that they aspire to, and they apologised to Ms H for this and made a 
payment of £75 to Ms H to compensate her for any trouble and upset she might have 
incurred.
Ms H wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the amount of compensation 
that Barclays had paid to Ms H didnt go far enough and they recommended that Barclays 
pay a further £125 compensation to Ms H, bring the total amount of compensation payable 
to £200.
Barclays agreed to the recommendation put forwards by our investigator, but Ms H remained 
dissatisfied and felt that Barclays had provided her with a loan that wasnt reasonably 
affordable for her at the time that shed applied for it. 
Ms Hs complaint was re-assessed by another of our investigators. They didnt feel that it 
had been unfair or unreasonable for Barclays to provide Ms H with the loan that they had, 
and they also felt that the £200 compensation that Barclays had already paid to Ms H for the 
service aspects of her complaint already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to 
what had taken place. So, they didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Ms H wasnt happy with the view of the complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I note several detailed submissions provided by Ms H in which she provides 
information about the different aspects of this complaint. Id like to thank Ms H for making 
these submissions. Its clear that Ms H feels strongly about these issues and Im sorry to 
hear about how these issues have impacted her personally. Therefore, I hope Ms H doesnt 
consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding to a similar level of detail here. Instead, 
in line with this services role as an informal dispute resolution service, Ive focussed on the 
key aspects of Ms Hs submissions as they relate to the various aspects of this complaint.
As such, if Ms H notes that I havent responded to a specific point that shes raised in one of 
her submissions, it shouldnt be taken that I havent read and considered that point  I can 
confirm that Ive read and considered all the submissions provided by both Ms H and 
Barclays. Instead, it should be taken that I have read and considered that point, but that I 
dont feel that its necessary to address that point directly in this letter to arrive at what I 
consider to be a fair outcome here.
Personal loan  initial application
Ms H contends that Barclays should never have approved her application for the personal 
and that it should have been the case that Barclays should have recognised that the loan 
wouldnt be affordable for her at that time.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit such as a loan to a customer, and if 
so, how much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before 
approving a customer for such credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to their customer is affordable 
for that customer at that time.
Barclays appear to have done that here. I say this because when Ms H applied for the loan  
which she did via an online application  Barclays took details from Ms H about her monthly 
disposable income and also reviewed information from Ms Hs Barclays current account 
about her income and expenditure at that time. And, having reviewed this information myself, 
it appears to show that Ms H did have the disposable monthly income available to her such 
that she would, in all likelihood, be able to afford the repayments that would be due on the 
loan account that she was applying for at that time.
Accordingly, I feel that it was reasonable for Barclays to have concluded from the information 
that they assessed that Ms H could have afforded the loan shes applied for such that Im 
satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable or unfair for Barclays to have approved Ms Hs loan 
application or for them to have then provided the loan to Ms H that they did. Because of this, 
I wont be upholding this aspect of Ms Hs complaint.
Barclays resuming collections activities on the loan account in October 2020
Ms H had been granted a payment holiday by Barclays on the personal loan account which 
was due to end in December 2020. However, in October 2020, having been contacted by a 
debt charity that was acting on Ms Hs behalf at that time, Barclays resumed collections 
activity on the loan account.
Barclays have explained that they did so as a consequence of having been approached by 
the debt charity  which had explained to Barclays that Ms Hs financial position was such at 
that time that there was no reasonable chance of her being able to meet the contractual 
payments required on the loan account at that time or when the payment holiday was due to 
end a few months later. 
Given that Barclays had been told this information by the debt charity working on Ms Hs 
behalf, it seems reasonable to me that Barclays would resume collections activities at that 
time, which ultimately resulted in Ms Hs account being defaulted.I say this because it seems evident that Ms Hs financial position was such that she wouldnt 
have been able to make the contractual payments required on the account when the 
payment holiday ended, which in turn means that it was always likely to be the case that Ms 
Hs personal loan account would be defaulted for non-payment at some stage. 
In such circumstances, its generally accepted that delaying an inevitable default is of no 
benefit to a customer, and that by having the default applied as early as is reasonable, the 
customer later benefits from that default falling off their credit file  having been present on 
the credit file for a period of six years  at a correspondingly early date.
Ms H may ask why Barclays couldnt have continued to provide an ongoing payment holiday 
on the same terms as the payment holiday that she was on at that time, where she wasnt 
expected to make any payment, and where her account wasnt considered to have accrued 
further arrears by her not making a payment, so that her credit file wasnt adversely affected 
by those monthly payments not being made.
However, this type of payment holiday was only offered because of temporary guidance 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) at that time and wouldnt have been 
available to Ms H moving forwards. This would have meant that any continuing financial 
assistance she might have received from Barclays where she made no monthly payments or 
reduced monthly payments would have been considered as missed payments and would 
have been reported to the credit reference agencies as arrears. And this also means that the 
arrears on Ms Hs account could have accrued to the point where it was reasonable for 
Barclays to have defaulted the account, even while Ms H was receiving ongoing financial 
assistance from them.
The reason for this is because it isnt considered good practice for a credit provider such as 
Barclays to allow a customer to fall deeper into arrears, and therefore further into debt, 
indefinitely. Instead, where it appears probable that a customer will continue to be unable to 
meet the contractual requirements of a credit account  as was the case in this instance  
its considered good practice for a credit provider to default that account, which has the 
effect the freezing the balance outstanding so that the customer doesnt continue to fall 
deeper and deeper into debt.
As such, because Barclays were contacted by the debt charity on Ms Hs behalf, and 
because that debt charity did inform Barclays that Ms H wouldnt in all likelihood be able to 
meet the contractual requirements of the loan account for the foreseeable future, it does 
seem reasonable to me that Barclays would begin the process of defaulting the account at 
that time, so as to not allow Ms H to fall unnecessarily into further arrears. 
However, while I feel that Barclays actions here were fair, I dont feel that they explained 
these actions to Ms H so that she could reasonably understand them. I note that Barclays 
have themselves agreed to this point, and that theyve made compensation payments to   
Ms H totalling £200 because of it. Matters of compensation can be subjective, but this £200 
compensation amount for not clearly explaining the reasons and consequences of their 
actions to Ms H at that time seems reasonable to me, and I can confirm that its 
commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances. 
Im therefore satisfied that no further action is merited from Barclays regarding this aspect of 
Ms Hs complaint.
Complaint about credit card account
Ms H has also referenced a complaint about a credit card account. However, this is a 
separate issue to the matters considered in this complaint  whose scope is the personal loan account and current account only  and as such I have not considered the credit card 
account aspect of Ms Hs wider complaint in this review. Ms H should refer to separate 
relevant correspondence from this service about her credit card account complaint.
Summary
I appreciate that Ms H feels strongly about this complaint, but ultimately I dont feel that 
Barclays acted unfairly by approving Ms Hs initial loan application when they did, or in how 
they commenced collections activity and ultimately defaulted the loan account following 
being contacted by the debt charity in October 2020. I also feel that the £200 compensation 
that Barclays have already paid to Ms H for not providing a clearer explanation of their 
actions at that time already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to that aspect of Ms 
Hs complaint.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Ms H was wanting, but it follows that my final 
decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take 
any further action at this time. I hope that Ms H will understand, given all that Ive explained 
above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman