DRN-2445008
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the market value 
it offered under his commercial motor insurance policy after his vehicle was stolen.
What happened
Mr B made a claim under his commercial motor insurance policy. But he wasnt happy about 
the market value Aviva placed on his vehicle when it looked to settle the claim. So he 
complained to Aviva and it increased the valuation. But Mr B still wasnt happy, so he 
complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He got a bespoke 
valuation from one of the trade guides and looked at other trade valuation guides. And he 
formed the view that the valuation Aviva offered wasnt sufficient. He thought it should pay 
Mr B what he paid for the vehicle when he bought it a few months before (a figure of £7,800 
was discussed). 
As Aviva didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont propose to go over all the details about this complaint as they are well known to both 
sides. But the key issue is whether Avivas valuation of Mr Bs vehicle was fair and in line 
with the market value. 
When considering valuations placed on vehicles by insurance companies I consider the 
approach they have adopted and decide whether or not the valuation is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
I generally pay particular attention to the various trade guides used for valuing vehicles, as 
well as other evidence provided by both parties. This evidence might include advertisements 
for the sale of similar vehicles; although I place less weight on advertisements than on the 
trade guides, as vehicles dont normally sell for the price at which they are advertised. The 
condition of the vehicle at the time the theft or damage occurred is also an important factor 
to consider. I will only order a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
This is a difficult case to decide and is complicated by the fact that Aviva wasnt able to use 
the trade guides in forming its view. So it relied on advertisements and its engineer who 
provided a market value for Mr Bs vehicle, initially of around £4,300 increasing to about 
£5,900. But our investigator was able to gain a trade value from one of the guides and a 
bespoke valuation form another. And both of these were more than what Aviva offered and 
more than Mr B paid for his vehicle a few months before. So he suggested that Aviva should 
pay Mr B the amount he paid for the vehicle a few months earlier.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided. And given the bespoke valuation and trade guide 
suggest that the value of the vehicle is more than Aviva offered and more than Mr B paid it 
makes sense that it should pay Mr B what he paid for his vehicle a few months earlier. While 
this case has been with me for decision Ive clarified that the amount Mr B actually paid for 
the vehicle was £7,600 (as he paid £200 for the delivery of the vehicle) and Ive made Aviva 
aware of this.
So I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case is 
for Aviva to pay £7,600 plus 8% simple interest for the time hes been without all the money 
owed. And I agree that it should pay £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think this complaint should be upheld. And 
Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr B what he paid for his vehicle (£7,600) plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement and £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman