DRN-4256905
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how long Santander UK Plc trading as Cahoot took to open a fixed 
term account.
What happened
Mrs C says she applied for a one-year fixed term bond account on 10 January 2023 with 
Cahoot. She says her existing account matured on 18 January 2023 and so applied for the 
new account in what she thought was good time. Mrs C says she intended paying in over 
£77,000 into the new account but the new account took until 3 March 2023 to be opened. 
She would like interest paid on the money from 18 January 2023 until 3 March 2023 but says 
she accepts the £100 compensation she was paid by Cahoot.
Cahhot accepts it didnt deal appropriately with parts of Mrs Cs complaint and accepts she 
made a number of telephone calls to it. It has paid £100 compensation but says it made 
clear there were delays in opening the account.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us, and our investigator thought the compensation 
appropriate but didnt think there was a loss of interest as the fixed term account was 
opened.
Mrs C doesnt accept that view and says she should have been told of the significant delays 
and says she has lost interest. She accepts the compensation award is appropriate but 
maintains she should be paid the interest. Mrs C accepts she received e-mails from Cahoot 
telling her there were delays in opening this type of account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont require Cahoot to pay Mrs C any 
interest and think the compensation award is appropriate. I make clear that I accept Mrs Cs 
money was not earning interest until the account was opened and appreciate what she says 
about the investigators view on that point.
I have not seen any evidence from either side to this complaint, that when Mrs C applied for 
the account, she was given an account opening date. But Im satisfied that Mrs C was told 
by Cahoot on more than one occasion that there were delays in opening this type of 
account. I say that as Mrs C accepted during the calls between her and Cahoot that she had 
received that information on more than one occasion. So, I think Cahoot made it clear in 
January 2023 that there were delays, and it was Mrs Cs informed choice to continue with 
the application rather than for example opening a different account.
I have listened to the first call Mrs C made to Cahoot in January 2023 and am satisfied she 
was clearly told again there were delays in opening accounts and there was no guarantee 
about timescales. I find Mrs C was then given an estimated timescale for Cahoot looking at 
her application.
Mrs C then called Cahoot again in early February 2023 and Im satisfied she was told she 
may need to wait for a further 17 working days. During the call Im satisfied Mrs C told 
Cahoot its systems were not fit for purpose and it was also clear Mrs C was unhappy with 
the timescales and didnt agree with the later request for identification documents.
There is no dispute that the account was opened in early March 2023 and Cahoot told Mrs C 
in a later telephone call it hadnt received her identification documents but agreed to receive 
them by e-mail. I accept, as Cahoot has, that it didnt deal with parts of the application 
process as it should. And Cahoot has paid compensation which I think is fair and reasonable 
which Mrs C also agrees was appropriate.
The key issue here is if Cahoot should pay interest from 18 January 2023 to 3 March 2023. 
Im satisfied Cahoot made clear on a number of occasions in e-mails and in telephone calls 
that it was experiencing delays in processing new applications. And that Mrs C was told that 
information from when she opened the account until early February 2023. I also think Mrs C 
was told in early February 2023 that there would be a further delay of about 17 working 
days. 
So, Im satisfied Cahoot was clear throughout this process that there were delays and made 
Mrs C aware of that. I find it was Mrs Cs choice in those circumstances to continue with the 
opening process rather than for example open an account with a different provider. I have 
not seen any evidence Cahoot misled Mrs C about account opening timescales and have 
made clear I find it repeatedly told her about delays as well as giving her information about 
timescales.
I appreciate Mrs C says other account providers open accounts far sooner and complains 
about Cahoots process. But those are not matters I can fairly comment on as we are not 
Cahoots regulator. The important point is that Cahoot did tell Mrs C there were delays and 
did tell Mrs C in early February 2023 it may take 17 working days after receipt of further 
documents to consider the application. And its not our role to conclude a businesss system 
for account opening is unfair or should be improved.
Overall, I cant fairly direct Cahoot to pay interest to Mrs C. I find in any event the start date 
Mrs C says it should be paid from is arbitrary and there was no guarantee for an opening 
date. I have made clear it was Mrs Cs choice to continue with the account opening process.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman