DRN-4120281
The complaint
Mrs and Mr E complain about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltds 
(CGICE) settlement of their pet insurance claim. My references to CGICE include its agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr E had pet insurance for their dog, insured by CGICE. They claimed £517.82 for 
vet treatment for a wound on their dogs chest on 4 July 2021, which was a Sunday.
CGICE accepted the claim. It deducted from the claim amount: £90 for the excess, £56.45 
for the co-payment, £22.50 for the medication over 100% mark-up and £29 for the out of 
hours fee. CGICE said the deductions were in line with the policy terms.
Mrs and Mr E complain that its unfair for CGICE to make the out of hours fee and 
medication over 100% mark-up deductions. In summary they said:
The vet practice their dog was taken to was open on a Sunday and included Sundays 
in its published opening hours, so their dog wasnt treated 'out of hours'. They asked 
where the definition of 'out of hours' was in the policy terms. Also, if theyd delayed 
treatment CGICE might have reduced their claim for their poor care if for example 
their dog had developed complications.
Their dog was treated by a vet, without them being present, for an acute condition. 
They had no control over what medication the vet used or the price of the medication. 
They asked what policy term CGICE was using to make the medications over 100% 
mark-up deduction and the relevant medication.
They want CGICE to pay those two deductions, a total of £51.50, and compensation 
for their lost time and inconvenience in making the complaint.
CGICE sent its final response letter sent to Mrs and Mr E after theyd complained to us. It 
detailed the relevant policy terms and said:
The policy stated there was no cover for costs of an out of hours consultation unless 
the vet confirmed that was necessary to provide life-saving treatment. There was no 
evidence in the vets notes that Mrs and Mr Es dog was in a critical condition. It later 
provided the vets invoice which showed the vet had charged £64 for a Sunday 
consultation.
For calculation of medication costs it allowed a mark-up on the consumer pricing to 
allow for vets administration costs and overheads. It named the two medications that 
had the mark-up deduction.
Our investigator said CGICE fairly deducted £29 for the out of hours fee. Once CGICE sent 
us its calculations for the medication mark-up deductions our investigator said CGICE had 
fairly applied the deduction. He explained that as the information CGICE provided was 
commercially sensitive he couldnt send the calculations to Mrs and Mr E.
Mrs and Mr E disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. In summary they added:
Dictionary definitions of 'out of hours' generally say 'during the period of the day in 
which business is not usually conducted'. As the practice their dog went to routinely 
opened on a Sunday their dogs consultation wasnt 'out of hours'. The policy terms 
didnt say CGICE would only cover a standard consultation fee and not any uplift for 
Sunday consultations.
CGICE hadnt established that the treatment their dog had didnt prevent his loss of 
life. Their dog had a deep wound to his chest wall, which could have indicated 
deeper internal injuries, and there could have been a significant risk of infection if not 
treated promptly.
CGICE ought to provide them with the medication mark-up calculations to be 
transparent. They asked if we had verified whether the figures CGICE quoted were 
the average market prices for the medication.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to partly uphold this complaint. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
I have to decide if CGICE reasonably settled the claim. As I think CGICE unreasonably 
deducted the out of hours fee I partly uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive taken into consideration all the points Mrs and Mr E made to support their complaint. Im 
not going to respond to each point but Ill focus on why Ive made my decision.
Under the Veterinary Fees section the policy says:
What is not insured
Any out of hours Vet Fees, except where this is life saving for Your pet.
The vets notes for 4 July say Mrs and Mr Es dog had a cut on chest from walk  wound 
aprox 2 inch long which was deep to the underlying muscle. I understand why Mrs and Mr E 
wanted their dog treated promptly but I think CGICE fairly considered there was no evidence 
from the vets notes that the treatment was life-saving for their dog.
Mrs and Mr E say their claim may have been affected if their dogs condition had worsened 
due to not getting prompt treatment. But that didnt happen and I dont make decisions based 
on hypothetical situations.
On the evidence I have, the issue is whether CGICE reasonably considered the treatment to 
be out of hours. Theres no definition of out of hours in the policy. So I think its reasonable 
for me to look at dictionary definitions to see what a reasonable consumer could understand 
out of hours to mean in the every-day use of the phrase. Dictionary definitions for 'out of 
hours' generally say a time that is not during the usual hours of business or work or very 
similar.
The invoice attached to the claim is from Mrs and Mr Es dogs usual vet practice. CGICE 
say that practices website shows its closed on Sundays, and I agree. CGICE initially 
understood the dog was seen at the usual practice on a Sunday, so out of hours for that 
practice. But Mrs and Mr Es evidence is that their dog was seen at another vet practice, 
which was part of the same group as the usual vet practice, which was open on Sundays. 
Ive no reason to doubt that evidence.
Mrs and Mr E sent us evidence from the website of the vet practice where their dog was 
seen which shows the published opening times for the practice as 9am to 4pm on Sundays. 
Ive had a look at the website which shows that practice offers standard consultations on 
Sundays during those times. Ive seen no evidence that Mrs and Mr Es dog was seen 
outside the published Sunday opening times.In these circumstances I dont think the dog was seen out of hours of the vet practices 
opening times. So its unreasonable for CGICE to deduct an out of hours fee. It should pay 
the £29 it deducted for the out of hours fee. If Mrs and Mr E have already paid that cost to 
the vet CGICE should add interest as Ive detailed below.
Under the General Exclusions the policy says:
Vet Fees will only be paid if they are:
Reasonable; and
Essential for Your pet's health and well-being. We may limit any payment to a 
maximum mark-up of 100% for veterinary Treatment, medication and dispensing 
fees.
Under that policy term CGICE can deduct a mark-up in excess of 100% for a medication 
cost. Mrs and Mr E would like to see the information CGICE used to calculate whether 
thered been an over 100% mark up for the medication. As CGICE provided us with 
confidential business sensitive information to explain the calculation I cant share that with 
Mrs and Mr E. I have checked that the figures CGICE used were reasonable average market 
prices for the medication.
Im satisfied that CGICEs calculation about the mark-ups on the relevant medication were 
reasonable and it made the deduction in line with the policy terms.
Mrs and Mr E have asked for compensation for their lost time and inconvenience in making 
the complaint. I dont generally award compensation for a consumers distress and 
inconvenience in making a complaint and theres no reason for me to do so in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision.
CGICE and Mrs and Mr E accepted my provisional decision. Mrs and Mr E added that they 
still had reservations about the 'commercial in confidence' rationale for CGICE not stating 
the market price of the relevant medication. They asked, if possible, I confirm that CGICE 
calculations for the medications were as at 4 July 2021 and the medications were available 
at those prices.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs and Mr E and CGICE have accepted my provisional decision Ive no reason to 
change my mind. As to Mrs and Mr Es additional comment, Ive no reason to think that the 
medication prices CGICE used for the calculations werent relevant to July 2021. As Ive said  
Im satisfied that CGICEs calculation about the mark-ups on the relevant medication were 
reasonable.
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I partly uphold this 
complaint. I find that CGICE unreasonably deducted the out of hours fee from its settlement 
payment of the claim.
Putting things right
CGICE must pay the £29 it deducted for the out of hours fee from its settlement payment of the claim. If Mrs and Mr E have already paid that cost to the vet CGICE should add interest 
as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) 
Ltd to pay the £29 out of hours fee it deducted from its settlement payment of Mrs and 
Mr Es claim. If Mrs and Mr E have already paid that cost to the vet Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd should add interest* at 8% simple a year from the date 
they made the payment to the vet to the date of settlement.
*If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs and Mr E how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs and Mr E a certificate showing this if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman