DRN-3847812
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected his claim against 
it under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to his purchase 
of some solar panels.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in 2013. The purchase was funded by a three year 
loan from Shawbrook. Mr S says the installer misled him into believing that the panels would 
be self-funding within the loan term, which they werent. The CMC says that this 
misrepresentation gave rise to an unfair relationship between Mr S and Shawbrook.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator accepted that the installer had led Mr S 
to believe that the panels would be self-funding, because there was no direct comparison 
between the cost and the benefits of the system in the sales documentation. But he thought 
that fair redress would have been to make the panels self-funding over ten years rather than 
three. Since he calculated that the panels would pay for themselves within eight years, he 
did not think Shawbrook needed to do anything, and so he did not uphold this complaint.
The CMC did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint, but for a 
different reason to the one given by my colleague. I think that there was no 
misrepresentation by the installer. That is because one of the documents at the point of sale 
does set out the cost and the estimated benefit of the panels, and I think it shows clearly 
enough that the annual benefits did not begin to approach the annual cost.
The document is untitled but appears to be an order form. It consists of just one page. It 
gives the total price of the panels as £6,819.75. It seems that a slightly higher price was 
actually paid later on (and that difference has not been explained), but for present purposes 
I will use the figure that was written on the form. The form also states that Mr S would pay for 
the panels with interest-free finance. It does not say how long the loan term was for, but I am 
sure he knew at the time that this would be a three year loan. So it must have been clear 
that for the panels to pay for themselves within three years  at a cost of £6,800  they 
would need to provide an annual income of well over £2,000. But the same document states 
that the total income in the first year would be only £1,141.13.
This document was signed by Mr S, and so I am satisfied that the installers salesman did 
bring this information to his attention, and that the document reflects what was discussed at 
the sales meeting. It does not seem likely to me that the salesman told him the panels would 
pay for themselves at the same time as asking him to sign a piece of paper that said they 
would not.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr S about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan. It follows that there was no unfair relationship between Mr S and Shawbrook.
Even if I took a different view about that, the panels had almost certainly paid for themselves 
by the time Mr S complained to Shawbrook in January 2021. The price that was actually paid 
was £7,219.75, and that was in April 2013. Eight years later, the income and savings 
generated by the panels ought to have made that back. Over £5,600 in feed-in tariff 
payments had been made by October 2020, and its very likely that he had saved the 
difference (about £1,600) on his electricity bills by then. So I agree with the adjudicator that 
Mr S has incurred no financial loss.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman