DRN-4100130
The complaint
Miss J complains that RCI Financial Services Limited irresponsibly granted her finance 
(under a hire purchase agreement) she couldnt afford to repay.
Miss J is represented in this complaint by a third party. But for ease I will, in the main, simply 
refer to Miss J in this decision rather than Miss J and her appointed representative.
What happened
In March 2016 Miss J entered into a hire purchase agreement with RCI for a used car 
costing £9,106.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Miss J undertook to make 
an advance payment of £300 followed by 29 monthly payments of £330.23 and 1 monthly 
payment of £331.23  making a total repayable of £10,207.90 at an APR of 9.7%.
Miss J made the advance payment required of her of £300 and the first 27 monthly 
payments required of her of £330.23. But she never paid the 28th, 29th and 30th monthly 
payments required of her under the agreement.. 
In November 2019 RCI, having been unable to make contact with Miss J, took the decision 
to write off (in its books) the three monthly payments Miss J failed to make totalling £991.69 
(£330.23 plus £330.23 plus £331.23).
In June 2022 Miss J complained to RCI that it had acted irresponsibly when it lent to her in 
March 2016.
In July 2022 RCI issued Miss J with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL 
RCI said it that it couldnt agree that it had acted irresponsibly in lending to her. In summary 
it said its search of Miss J credit file highlighted no risk indicators. It also confirmed to our 
service that Miss J had declared (as part of her application) that she was employed earning 
£18,000 a year and that she was living with her parents.
In July 2022, and unhappy with RCIs FRL, Miss J referred her complaint to our service.
Miss Js complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
RCI should have carried out more checks to assess affordability of the borrowing Miss J had 
applied for (and was granted), but such checks wouldnt have caused it to conclude that its 
lending was, or could be, unaffordable. 
In other words, the investigator concluded that RCI hadnt done anything wrong in approving 
Miss Js borrowing. 
Miss J didnt agree with the investigators view, so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RCI (and Miss Js appointed representative) will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and 
good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. 
Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
It's not clear whether RCI agrees, but like the investigator Im satisfied that given that Miss J 
appears to have had a default (date and amount unclear) registered against her in 
March 2016, the amount RCI was looking to lend (and went on to lend), the sum Miss J was 
required to repay under the agreement each month (and for how long) it should have done 
more than it did to check whether the agreement was affordable (for Miss J), for example by 
verifying her (declared) income of £18,000 a year and to establish what her monthly 
expenditure was (at least what her monthly non-discretionary expenditure was).
One of the ways that RCI could have verified Miss Js income and expenditure was by 
reviewing bank statements and/or by completing an income and expenditure form. While 
RCI wasnt required to do either, Ive reviewed three months of Miss Js bank statements 
(dated January, February and March 2016) to see what such a check might have uncovered.
These three statements show that Miss J was receiving an average net salary of £1,225 a 
month and was incurring very little by way of non-discretionary expenditure (such as 
rent/mortgage, bills (including food) and credit commitments). I also note that during this 
three month period Miss J never went overdrawn.
Given this and given what RCI says its credit file search returned (and what Miss J says her 
credit file search would have returned) and that the repayments under the agreement were 
for around 27% of her net monthly income, I dont find that I can say that had further checks 
taken place the agreement would have been found to have been unaffordable. 
For this reason, Im not persuaded that RCI acted unfairly in approving the finance.
For the sake of completeness, I would add I dont dispute that just over two years after 
entering in the agreement Miss J might have started to experience financial difficulties, after 
all she made her 27th monthly payment under the agreement late and didnt make her 28th, 
29th and 30th monthly payment under the agreement at all. But what I need to decide in this 
decision, and have decided, is whether RCI acted fairly and reasonably in lending to Miss J 
in March 2016 based on what it knew, or ought to have discovered with proportionate 
checks, about her financial position and personal circumstances in March 2016.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman