DRN-3182369
The complaint
Mr K complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes- Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.  
What happened
In June 2016 Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement with 
MBFS.
At the end of the agreement, the car was inspected and collected. MBFS asked Mr K to pay 
charges for damage.
Mr K disputed the charges. He said the damage wasnt identified at the first inspection, and 
he thinks the damage falls within acceptable wear and tear.
In response, MBFS said that all vehicles are subject to a second inspection on return to the 
refurbishment area. It said that Mr K had been advised of this in his booking confirmation. I 
relation to the damage, MBFS said it had removed the charge for the damage to the right-
hand front alloy, but that the remaining damage charges had been raised correctly in line 
with the vehicle returns standards.
Mr K remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator said that MBFS had acted fairly in applying charges for the RHR door pad 
and the LHR door pad, but that the rest of the charges should be removed because MBFS 
wasnt able to show that the damage had been present at the initial inspection. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said the images relied on by MBFS to show the damage to the RHR 
door pad and the LHR door pad were of poor quality. He didnt think this was clear evidence 
that the damage was present when the car was collected. Mr K said hed inspected the car 
himself on the day it was collected and hadnt noticed this damage. He said the collection 
agent who carried out the initial inspection didnt notice this damage either. Mr K said that 
because the car had covered 200 miles between it being collected from him and the second 
inspection, it was reasonable to assume that the damage had been caused after the car was 
collected. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr K must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.  
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards, which set out what is considered acceptable 
wear and tear.
Mr K has been charged for several items of damage. MBFS has already removed the charge 
for the right front hand alloy. In response to the investigators view, MBFS said it agreed to 
remove the charges for the bumper grill., the right hand post trim and the right-hand rear 
door.
The items of damage which remain in issue are the LHR door pad and the RHR door pad. 
Ive therefore focussed on these two items. Mr K doesnt think the damage to these items 
has been clearly evidenced. Hes also suggested that the damage occurred after the car was 
collected.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This says there are cuts (up to 5mm) on both door pads. 
The MBFS vehicle returns standards say that broken or damaged interior mouldings or trim 
pads arent acceptable. The BVLRA guidelines say that the interior upholstery and trim must 
not have burns, scratches or tears.
Ive reviewed the images from the first inspection. MBFS has said that the damage to the 
door pads is visible on the inspection video. MBFS has also provided stills taken from the 
video. Ive looked at the stills. The area of damage has been circled for both doors and, 
although the quality of the image isnt great, I can see that there is a tear in both of the door 
pad trims. Ive compared the still images with the images taken during the second 
inspection. The images from the second inspection are clearer and show tears in both door 
pad trims. The position of the tears in both sets of stills are the same. On balance, Im 
persuaded that there were tears in both door pads at the time of the first inspection. Tears 
arent acceptable according to the relevant guidelines and vehicle returns standards, so I 
think the charges have been correctly applied.
Ive taken into account what Mr K has said about the still images. I agree that these are of 
poor quality but I still think its possible to see the damage to the door pads. 
Im satisfied that the damage identified in the stills is the same as the damage identified at 
the second inspection. I agree with Mr K that it would have been preferable if the inspector 
had taken photos at the first inspection. But the fact that the inspector didnt take photos 
doesnt mean that the damage wasnt present. And as Ive said, Im satisfied that the 
damage to both door pads is visible from the stills from the first inspection. 
Ive also taken account of Mr Ks concern that the damage occurred after the car was 
collected. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think this is likely, because as Ive said above, I 
think the damage to the door pads is visible on the stills from the first inspection.
Putting things right
To put things right here, Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK Limited must remove all of 
the charges except for the charges relating to the door pads. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2022.
 Emma Davy
Ombudsman