DRN-1537764
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasn't refunded a payment he made to an incorrect 
account.
What happened
Mr C made a payment on 16 September 2019 for £126 to a company I will call B. He says 
he realised on 1 October 2019 that he had made a mistake with the account details and 
asked HSBC to retrieve his payment. Mr C says HSBC hasn't done so and would like it to 
repay him the money.
HSBC says it made a payment recovery request with the recipients bank but the money 
couldn't be returned. It says it has tried to help Mr C, and he should consider alternative 
methods of recovering his money.
Mr C brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it and thought HSBC had 
tried to help him. The investigator thought HSBC couldn't do any more than it had.
Mr C doesn't accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that HSBC had dealt fairly with this complaint and I don't think its made a 
mistake.
I'm satisfied that Mr C made the payment for £126 and the mistake was his. I appreciate Mr 
C's frustration in those circumstances but I don't think HSBC made a mistake. I'm also 
satisfied that HSBC made a payment recovery request that was unsuccessful which I think 
was all it could do in the circumstances.
I can't fairly hold HSBC responsible for how the recipient of the money acted and I think that 
Mr C will have to consider alternative ways of getting his money back.
Overall for the reasons I have explained I find HSBC did what it could to try to get Mr C's 
money back. So I can't fairly order it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2020.David Singh
Ombudsman