DRN-2329096
The complaint
Ms D complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) has blocked her debit card on a 
number of occasions which meant she couldnt pay for essential items she needed.
What happened
Ms Ds debit card was declined so she complained to Co-op. They replied and noted Ms D 
was unhappy her card was declined, she was asked to check her balance in a cash machine 
to unblock her card and shes never received a call or text regarding a stopped payment.  
Co-op also noted Ms D was unhappy they arent able to make her aware before their fraud 
system declines a payment and about her card being declined a number of times.
 
Co-op apologised for the recent issue which led to Ms Ds card being declined. They said, 
Ms Ds card contains a transaction counter in the chip and theres also one held in their 
systems. At the point of authorisation, a comparison is done between these counters and if 
there are any differences then the card will decline. They said this can occur if there is a 
terminal fault or an old terminal is being used. They said, although they couldnt confirm this 
was due to a bank error, they agreed it wasnt a good experience for Ms D and credited her 
account with £25.
 
In relation to the other complaints, Co-op said they asked Ms D to go to a cash machine to 
check her balance so the counter in her card could realign with the counter on their system. 
They said, if a payment is stopped by their fraud department, they will attempt to contact a 
customer as soon as they reasonably can, which is usually before close of business the next 
working day but not all declined transactions lead to a call or text message. They said, if a 
card payment is declined then customers can call Co-ops helpline. Co-op said they couldnt 
make Ms D aware before their fraud system declines a payment. They explained the factors 
which their system takes into account and how this leads to an immediate decision on 
whether to authorise or decline payment. They said, in light of this, they cant foresee which 
transactions will be declined. 
Co-op accepted there had been previous card blocks and they had since reviewed their 
fraud systems to pick up on Ms Ds usual spending patterns. They said they could see Ms D 
hadnt recently had any fraud card declines. Co-op also explained they will only decline a 
transaction where they have a real concern that it may not be genuine. They said they cant 
say why a card payment may decline as this is commercially sensitive information. They 
didnt uphold these complaints. 
   
Our investigator looked into things for Ms D. She thought Co-op had acted in line with their 
terms and conditions and didnt uphold the complaint. Ms D disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms D will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as an 
alternative to the courts that is free for complainants to use. In deciding this complaint Ive 
focused on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every 
issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Ms D. Rather it reflects 
the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
Its important for banks to have fraud prevention systems in place to protect consumers. 
Reducing fraud is a priority for the Financial Conduct Authority so, in order to meet any legal 
and regulatory requirements, its necessary for banks to have appropriate controls and 
systems in place to protect themselves and consumers from fraud. So, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Co-op to have fraud prevention systems in place. 
  
Ive seen Co-ops terms and conditions which set out how they decide whether to make a 
payment. This says they will make a payment if a customer asks them to but wont do in 
certain circumstances. It then lists situations where they wont, this includes where they 
suspect fraudulent or criminal activity or where they suspect there has been a breach of 
security or misuse of a customers account. 
I can see from information provided by Co-op that, over a 12-month period between 2018 
and 2019, there were 11 occasions when Ms Ds transactions were declined. Co-op have 
told us why these transactions were declined. And, given that Co-op have told us the 
reasons are commercially sensitive, Im unable to set out those reasons in my decision. I 
have considered the reasons though and I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for such 
reasons to lead to Co-ops fraud prevention system to decline the transactions. 
  
Ive seen that conversations have taken place between Ms D and Co-op when transactions 
have been declined. On most of these occasions, this led to Ms D having to phone Co-op to 
sort out the issue. Co-op have told us that some declined transactions will cause an 
automated phone call to the customer where they can confirm if the transactions are genuine 
or not. However, depending on a number of fraud rules, this may not happen and instead a 
manual phone call will be made to the customer to discuss the transactions. With the manual 
call, as these go into a queue to be worked, customers may end up calling first to discuss 
the transactions and take the block off. That is what appears to have been the case here on 
a number of occasions. 
I understand it has caused inconvenience to Ms D and also distress and embarrassment in 
having her payments declined. I empathise with Ms D that its been frustrating when her card 
payments have been declined. Its understandable shes been left upset and inconvenienced 
particularly as she says the payments which have been declined have been genuine and 
legitimate transactions. But, in this case, Ive looked at whether Co-op have acted fairly and 
reasonably. Having a fraud prevention system in place is important and necessary for Co-op 
to protect their consumers. While unfortunately this may lead to occasions where legitimate 
transactions are declined, it doesnt mean Co-op have done something wrong. 
 
I can see that Co-op wrote to Ms D in October 2019 to say they had reviewed their fraud 
systems to pick up on Ms Ds usual spending patterns. They noted that Ms D hadnt recently 
had any fraud card declines on her account. In light of this, our service asked Co-op what 
this involved and whether this shouldve been considered sooner and therefore would have prevented some of the declined payments. Co-op have explained the process but have 
confirmed its commercially sensitive information so Im unable to set this out. I have however 
reviewed the information and cant say Co-op have acted unreasonably. 
I know Ms D feels strongly about whats happened here and has questioned why Co-op 
arent able to send her any notification in advance of her payment being declined. Co-op 
have explained the reason for this and I think their reasons are fair. The system will only pick 
up a transaction when a customer asks for a payment to be made. This is the point at which 
the system looks at various factors to decide whether to authorise or decline a payment. So, 
I dont think Co-op have acted unreasonably here in saying they cant provide any advance 
notice to Ms D about when a payment will be declined. 
I am sorry to hear about the impact that the debit card declines have had on Ms D and I do 
hope things have resolved following action taken by Co-op. I cant however say that Co-op 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably in this case. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman