DRN-4237019
Complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt reimburse her after she fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
Between December 2015 and December 2017, Miss R lost a significant sum of money to a 
romance scam.
She had met a man on an overseas holiday in 2011. In April 2015, he re-established contact 
with her. They spoke and exchanged messages frequently and a relationship developed 
between the two. In December 2015, he returned to his home country. Miss R went to visit 
him and his extended family the following month. They married in an informal religious 
ceremony, but this form of marriage wasnt one that was recognised in law either in the 
fraudsters home country or in the UK.
He wanted Miss R to sell her home in the UK and move to his home country so that they 
could live together. His plan was that they would purchase a large building  they would live 
in part of it and earn a rental income from the other dwellings and the retail space on the 
ground floor. In February 2016, she transferred £100,000 from her account with Barclays to 
the fraudster. 
In 2017, Miss R was contacted by the fraudsters brother who told her that hed been 
arrested and explained that he needed her to transfer £6,000 to bribe the judge to release 
him from prison. Shortly afterwards, the fraudster contacted her again and explained that 
hed found another property to invest in and pressed her to transfer more money.
In February 2018, Miss R had to return to the UK due to a family illness. She was told that, 
while she was away, the fraudster had been called up to do national service. In 2021, having 
not seen him for a considerable period of time and communicating exclusively with his 
brother, she suspected she must have fallen victim to a scam.
She notified Barclays about what had happened, but it said it wouldnt reimburse her. It said 
that she hadnt fallen victim to fraud but that this was a civil matter between her and the man 
shed been in a relationship with. Miss R was unhappy with that response and so she 
referred her complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator. The Investigator 
agreed that Miss R had fallen victim to a scam. However, she concluded that, even if 
Barclays had intervened to speak to her about the payments she was making, it wouldnt 
have persuaded her to change her mind.
Miss R disagreed with the Investigators opinion. She said that the second payment she 
made (for £100,000) shouldve been identified as suspicious and so an opportunity was 
missed for employees of the bank to ensure she wasnt at risk of financial harm. Instead, no 
concerns were raised with her at all. 
She also argued that it cant be assumed either that Barclays wouldve found her answers to 
their questions acceptable or that she wouldnt have acted differently if the possibility of 
fraud had been brought to her attention. Because Miss R disagreed with the Investigators 
view, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to say at the outset that this is an appalling thing to have happened to Miss R. She 
was treated with an extraordinary degree of cynicism and cruelty by the man who defrauded 
her and I have a great deal of sympathy for her and everything shes been through. 
However, my role here is limited to looking at the actions and inactions of the bank. And 
while I know that my decision will be enormously disappointing to her, Im not persuaded that 
I can uphold her complaint.
The starting point under the relevant regulations is that Miss R is liable for any payments 
shes authorised. However, thats not the end of the story. As a matter of good industry 
practice, Id expect it to be on the lookout for account activity that was unusual or out of 
character that might have indicated that one of its customers was at risk of financial harm 
due to fraud. On identifying such activity, it was expected to intervene in a manner that was 
proportionate to the risk. In this case, Miss Rs second transfer was for £100,000 and to an 
international account. In those circumstances, I certainly think Barclays ought to have 
intervened and spoken with her to satisfy itself that she wasnt at risk of fraud. From the 
evidence Ive seen, it didnt do enough in response to that payment.
However, in order to find in Miss Rs favour, I also need to be persuaded that Barclays 
failing was the cause of her loss. That means I need to ask myself whether there is 
sufficiently strong evidence to show that its more likely than not that, but for the failing on 
the part of Barclays, the loss would not have occurred. 
To work this out, I need to consider what would have happened if Barclays had handled 
things differently. It ought to have contacted Miss R and asked her about the payment. It 
should also have given her general guidance about the prevalence and risk of fraud and 
scams. Unfortunately, however, I agree with the conclusions of the Investigator that, even if 
had done so, it wouldnt have prevented her from making the payments. At that point in time, 
she wouldve been able to give a satisfactory explanation as to the purpose of the payment  
she was buying a property in another country with the intention of living there. I also think its 
unrealistic to expect that warnings from a frontline employee of the bank wouldve changed 
her mind about a relationship that she was psychologically invested in. 
Miss R has argued that it is equally possible that shed have re-evaluated her options if an 
employee of the bank had raised the possibility of fraud with her. I understand the point 
shes making. Its possible that she might have reacted in that way, but I dont think its 
equally likely. The evidence needs to show that its more likely than not that she wouldve 
acted differently. Unfortunately, the evidence supporting that argument simply isnt strong 
enough. 
For completeness, Ive also considered whether Barclays did everything it shouldve done 
once Miss R told it shed fallen victim to a scam. The evidence Ive seen suggests its 
unlikely that any recovery of funds wouldve been possible. I say that because I can see that 
the funds that were transferred to the UK account were promptly moved on. I think its highly 
likely the same thing will have happened in connection with the overseas bank too.
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish the seriousness of what has happened here, 
and I understand the strength of feeling Miss R has about her complaint. But as much as Im sorry to have to give her such bad news, Im afraid Im unable to uphold her complaint.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman