DRN-2868860
The complaint
Miss G complains that NewDay trading as Aqua irresponsibly allowed her to open two credit
card accounts and later increased the credit limit. She complains that the lending was
unaffordable.
What happened
Miss G says her credit card accounts were unaffordable and NewDay didnt check her credit
file before deciding to lend. She would like the interest refunded and the accounts cleared as
well as any adverse information removed from her credit file.
NewDay says Miss G opened two credit card accounts in 2013 and in July 2015. It says it
doesnt give us permission to look at the opening of the 2013 account as that took place
more than six years before Miss G brought her complaint. NewDay says any credit limit
increases and applications were correctly assessed, and Miss G said she had an income of
£14,000 initially and £17,500 in 2015. It says there was a number of years between the
lending and a default previously recorded on Miss Gs credit file and that she had limited
debt when the account was opened which increased to just over £5,000 in 2015. It also says
the credit limit increases were appropriately assessed but Miss G told it about financial
problems in 2016 and didnt keep to agreed repayment plans and so both accounts were
defaulted.
Miss G brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it but thought we could only
look at events from 2014. The investigator thought in summary that Miss G had missed
payments and was over her credit limit prior to credit limit increases and the second account
being opened. And Miss G was in high levels of debt with a low income. The investigator
thought the lending and increases were unaffordable and recommended interest be
refunded and Miss Gs credit file be amended.
NewDay doesnt accept that view and says it considers three months over a credit limit
rather than two as an indicator of affordability and also says Miss G didnt have any payday
lending and didnt appear to be in financial difficulties until sometime after the second
account opened. NewDay says there were limited cash withdrawals and one missed
payment.
I asked both sides for further information and asked NewDay to provide the account
statements from 2014 until the start of 2016. Miss G says she cant get her credit file and
hasnt told us why she cant. And hasnt told us if she agrees with the investigators view
about not being able to look at events before 2014. I will of course look carefully at the credit
file if Miss G can get a copy.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and thought that NewDays lending and 
credit limit increases were not unaffordable or irresponsible.
I explained that lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any credit 
application. And that those checks will of course depend on the type of lending and the 
amount. I was satisfied that the lending here was in the form of two credit card accounts 
rather than for example a loan.
I thought the investigator explained the rules we operate under that are called DISP. Those 
rules in summary say we cant generally look at a complaint more than six years after the 
event complained of or if later, three years after a complainant knew or ought reasonably to 
have realised, they had cause to complain. I said that means I couldnt look at events before 
2014 which included the opening of the first credit card account but said I could look at the 
credit limit increases.
Miss G hasnt told me if she agrees with the investigators view on that issue and that is why 
I said that I hope she tells me what her view is or when she knew she had cause to 
complain. I said I can consider a complaint outside of those time limits if there were 
exceptional reasons that prevented a complaint being brought in time. And I could see that 
NewDay doesnt give us permission to look at events before 2014.
I looked carefully at NewDays records and saw that Miss G had a regular income
that she declared of between £14,000 and £17,500. I didnt think based on the evidence I
had seen that Miss G had significant debts and I had not seen any evidence of any
financial difficulties until sometime after the accounts were opened and after the credit limit
increases were approved. I appreciated Miss G says NewDay didnt check her credit file, but
I was satisfied it did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks and I didnt think Miss G
 provided us with her credit file or told us what may have been recorded on it that would
have shown the lending was unaffordable.
I accepted that Miss G exceeded her credit limit on occasions and missed one payment. I 
also accepted that she used her credit limit before the increases. But I also thought the 
accounts were reasonably well managed, there were no recent defaults or adverse 
information such as a County Court Judgement. And I could only see one missed payment 
from 2014 to 2016 which I thought provided evidence that the lending was affordable.
I thought on balance that Miss Gs circumstances changed at some point towards 2016 and
saw NewDay had a record of a conversation in which she told it in 2016 she was in
financial difficulties and was experiencing a temporary reduction in income. I didnt think
NewDay could have known that when deciding to lend or increase the credit limit. And could
see that repayment plans were fairly agreed that Miss G was unable to keep to.
Overall my provisional view was that NewDay carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on the credit limit increases and, on the decision, to open the new account. I thought 
the overall lending was relatively low with a credit limit of £250 on one account and just over 
£1,000 on the other. I accepted there were some account management issues but not 
enough to conclude the lending was irresponsible. I made clear to Miss G that even if I 
upheld her complaint then I would not order the account be cleared as I thought she had the 
benefit of the money.
Miss G doesnt accept my provisional view and maintains that checks were not carried out 
and that there was adverse information on her credit file. Miss G hasnt provided a copy of 
her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same decision that I did in my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons. Im satisfied Miss G could have provided us with either her credit 
report or further evidence about her debts at the time but hasnt done so. I have made clear 
that Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out on the application 
and credit limit increases.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman