The complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of E, a charity. 
Briefly, he is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc has allowed a large number of unauthorised 
direct debits to come out of Es bank account. He is also unhappy that HSBC has not 
investigated what appears to him to be a fraud against the charity.
What happened
Mr S contacted HSBC in November 2019 to say that Es bank statement showed more than 
20 direct debits that he did not recognise. HSBC refunded those payments, but did not pay 
any additional compensation.
Mr S told us that a similar issue happened in 2018. He said HSBC did pay compensation to 
the charity then, and he cant understand why it refuses to pay compensation again this time.
He is also unhappy with HSBCs suggestion that he contact the businesses deducting the 
direct debits. He says the situation is not his fault, and he should not be expected to sort it 
out. Instead, he would like HSBC to investigate what he sees as a fraud against E. He would 
also like an explanation of how this could have happened  given that Es bank account 
requires two signatures before any payment can be made, but here HSBC didnt even have 
one signature authorising the payments.
One of our investigators looked into Es complaint, but she didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. She said HSBC had simply processed the direct debit instructions from third 
parties, and that it had swiftly refunded Es money as soon as Mr S told it that E hadnt 
authorised them.
Our investigator also noted that the compensation E received in 2018 was because of a 
customer service issue, rather than because HSBC had allowed the direct debits to be 
deducted from Es bank account.
Mr S did not accept our investigators findings, and he asked for Es complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I am sorry to disappoint Mr S further, but 
having done so I agree with our investigator. I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong 
here.
DRN-1870379Its obvious from the tone of Mr Ss correspondence that he has found this to be an 
exceptionally frustrating experience. I can see why. Twenty unwanted direct debits in a 
single month is a very high number. I can also see that the amounts involved are very 
significant to E. In a single month, the unauthorised direct debits amounted to almost 5% of 
Es annual income.
It appears that a third party has been providing Es bank details to various other businesses, 
and those other businesses have been setting up direct debits using Es details. I dont know 
who the third party is, and I dont know what their motivations are  so I cant say whether 
their actions amount to fraud or simple mistake. But in either case, I am satisfied that HSBC 
has behaved properly. Overall, it has done what I would have expected it to do.
The disputed direct debits were set up using the AUDDIS system (the Automated Direct 
Debit Instruction Service). This allows payees, such as mobile phone providers, to provide a 
bank with account details and automatically set up payments. In effect, the payee claims the 
money from the account  the instruction to the bank comes from the payee, rather than 
from the banks customer.
The AUDDIS system is not used when a customer instructs a bank to send money from their 
account. In that case  where the payment instruction has come from the customer  the 
bank will apply the security procedures relevant to that type of payment. Where appropriate, 
the bank should apply two to sign rules.
The AUDDIS system has many advantages. It is usually convenient for banks, their 
customers, and the other businesses wanting to receive payments. But it also comes with 
the obvious risk that somebody other than the customer will make a mistake, and cause 
money to be wrongly taken from a customers bank account. That is where the Direct Debit 
Guarantee comes in. If the bank or the payee has made an error, the customer is 
guaranteed a refund. 
Here, HSBC swiftly returned Es money as soon as it because aware that Mr S disputed the 
charges. That means E has not suffered a financial loss as a result of a bank error.
I am also satisfied that neither E nor Mr S have suffered inconvenience due to a bank error. I 
completely agree that Mr S has suffered inconvenience, but that inconvenience was not 
caused by an error on the part of HSBC. 
Finally, I have considered whether HSBC should have done more to help Mr S and E. I am 
sorry to disappoint him further, but I dont think there is anything more that HSBC could 
reasonably have done. I note that HSBC has applied a marker to Es account, to ensure that 
any new direct debit is referred to E before being set up.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision before 13 July 2020.Laura Colman
Ombudsman