DRN-4126610
The complaint
Miss T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have failed to refund £3,279.80 she lost 
to a bank impersonation scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Miss T fell victim to a scam in September 2021. She received a call at work from a scammer 
purporting to be from HSBC, who knew personal details such as her name, address and 
date of birth, so she was convinced that the caller was genuine. The scammer said that 
someone had stolen her debit card and was attempting to make transactions at various 
retailers. 
Miss T realised that she had indeed lost her purse and debit card and was then told by the 
scammer that other transactions were being attempted, and that she would have to act 
quickly in order to cancel her card and protect the money in her account. The scammer said 
she would need to provide her PIN in order to stop the transactions. Miss T said she was put 
under a lot of pressure and was fearful she would lose her money, so she followed the 
scammers instructions and provided her four-digit code.
The scammer then used Miss Ts card and PIN to complete three transactions totalling 
£3,279.80, which made her account enter into her overdraft. She realised she had been 
scammed when she called HSBC and discovered that her cards had not been cancelled. 
HSBC refused to refund the money Miss T lost as it said she had disclosed her debit card 
PIN to the scammer, which was in breach of her account terms and conditions. However, our 
investigator upheld Miss Ts complaint. She didnt think Miss T had acted with gross 
negligence by disclosing her PIN in these particular circumstances as she thought she was 
acting to protect her account. HSBC failed to respond with any further comments or 
arguments, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it for the same reasons. In summary:
Im satisfied that Miss T did not authorise the payments made from her debit card. She 
was tricked into disclosing her PIN, and she did not consent to the payments being 
made, such that they should be considered as unauthorised for the purposes of the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. And HSBC are aware of the relevant 
considerations and approach this service takes to unauthorised scams and its 
obligations under the PSRs 2017, so I dont intend to repeat it all again here. 
Miss T was convinced she was speaking to HSBC as the scammer knew all her details. 
She was then put into a highly pressured situation where she was told she had to act 
immediately in order to keep the money in her account safe. This included disclosing her 
PIN, which she thought she was doing in order to prevent fraudulent payments being 
made from her account. She did not realise this would result in a scammer being able to 
make payments with her card, as she thought she was dealing with her bank. And given 
the information the scammer knew about her, I think it was plausible for Miss T to believe 
she was speaking to her bank. 
It was in this context that Miss T took the steps that she did, and I think a lot of people  
when placed in a similar high pressured and stressful situation such as the one Miss T 
faced  would have behaved in a similar way in these circumstances. It therefore follows 
that I dont think the actions she took fell so far below the standards of a reasonable 
person, such that she could be said to have failed with gross negligence to keep her 
personalised security details safe or to comply with the terms and conditions of her 
account. So, I conclude that it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC to provide a full 
refund of the disputed transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund the unauthorised transactions made from Miss Ts account (totaling 
£3,279.80).
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date of loss until the date of 
settlement.
Refund any charges and interest applied as a result of Miss Ts account becoming 
overdrawn by the disputed payments. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman