DRN-3473820
The complaint
B, a limited company, has complained about its property insurer QBE UK Ltd in respect of a 
subsidence claim dating back to 2014.
What happened
QBE began providing cover for Bs property in January 2013. Damage, thought to have been 
caused by subsidence, was noted at Bs property in 2014 and a claim was made to QBE. 
QBEs loss adjuster noted historic damage but thought some might also be progressive. But 
he attributed this to thermal movement, not subsidence. QBE declined the claim.
In 2018 B obtained a report on the damage at the property. The report said there was no 
basis for the finding of thermal movement  the damage was caused by subsidence. QBE 
reviewed matters and in 2020 its adjuster completed two further reports. The reports agreed 
that progressive subsidence was occurring. But both noted detail in the 2014 report that 
suggested the damage, even in 2014, had been going on for a long time. The second 2020 
report noted that QBE had only been on risk at the property since 2013 and concluded that it 
was most likely that damage had been occurring before that time. QBE noted a policy 
exclusion for damage originating prior to the policy cover and declined the claim. 
B was unhappy and complained to us. B said that if QBEs adjuster in 2014 hadnt made an 
error the subsidence claim would have been accepted and settled. Therefore, B said, it 
wasnt fair for QBE to have declined the claim.
Our investigator noted the content of the expert reports, the date of policy cover and the 
exclusion. She felt QBE had acted fairly to decline the claim.
B said it thought QBE had been the insurer before 2013, and that it had been QBE that had 
asked for the cracks at the property to be filled. But B said it had no evidence of this. Our 
investigator said she wasnt persuaded to change her view on the complaint and it was 
passed for an ombudsmans consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find Im not minded to uphold the complaint either. In short, I think QBE 
declined the claim fairly. Ill explain.
QBEs policy is a commercial one and it includes a not uncommon exclusion to the 
subsidence cover for:
DAMAGE which originated prior to the inception of this cover.
This means that whether or not some damage occurred during the term of QBEs policy, if 
the cause of that damage existed before the policy began, then the claim made in respect of 
that damage will fail. QBE has shown that it began providing cover to B in 2013, and B 
hasnt presented anything which refutes that. So if QBE can evidence that the damage, 
progressive or not, at Bs property began before 2013, then QBEs decline is fair and 
reasonable. 
In this instance, I dont think the error in 2014 makes much difference. Because if the error 
had not occurred, and the adjuster had put the damage down to subsidence, I cant see that 
QBE would likely have come to any different decision on the claim. Im not persuaded it 
would ever have accepted and settled the claim for subsidence.
Whilst clearly getting the cause of the damage wrong in 2014, QBEs adjuster noted there 
was significantly historic damage and a 35mm gap between the floor and wall, 
approximately 17mm of which had been filled with silicon. It was reported that B didnt know 
when that repair had been done. Photos were taken and these were available for review in 
2020. The adjusters expert opinion in 2020 was that:
The movementnoted in March 2014 suggests that the movement of the staircase has 
been ongoing for some time, possibly years andthe damage is most likely to have 
commenced prior to policy inception.  
No other expert opinion has been presented about when damage likely commenced. Bs 
expert report from 2018 focused on determining that subsidence was the cause of the 
damage, as opposed to thermal movement as proposed in 2014. It didnt comment on the 
period over which damage had been occurring. And whilst not an expert opinion, QBEs 
representative has said that a gap of the magnitude present in 2014 is unlikely to have 
opened up in the span of approximately a year. And I think that had it done, and been filled 
in during that time, then B in 2014 would have known or been able to find some kind of 
record of that having happened. Im persuaded by QBEs evidence that the damage found in 
2014, likely originated before the policy began in 2013.
As noted above, the policy excludes damage which originates before cover began. 
Therefore, and as also noted above, I think QBEs decline of the claim was fair and 
reasonable, with the reference to significant historic damage even in 2014 meaning its most 
likely QBE would never have accepted this claim even if its adjuster hadnt made an error.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against QBE UK Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman