DRN-3853227
The complaint
Mr H complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in September 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits 
in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
Mr H had built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd 
(Tata Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr H had built up 9 years and 8 months pensionable service in the BSPS. His annual 
scheme pension as at the date of leaving the scheme in December 2014 was £5,778.18 This 
would be revalued over the term to retirement by a prescribed amount. By September 2017 
it had been revalued to £6,072.12.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
had been agreed. This was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017  under 
the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension scheme, 
the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
Members were told that if the re-structure was approved, they would have three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP
In September 2017, terms of the re-structure were confirmed enabling trustees to start to talk 
to members in detail. 
Mr H was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits and wanted advice on his options. He doesnt recall how but he was 
introduced to IFM around September 2017. In the absence of contemporaneous evidence 
provided by IFM, Mr H says his circumstances at that time were as follows:
He was aged 46, married and in good health. His wife was aged 39 and in good 
health. They had three financially dependent children aged between 6 and 13;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£45,000. His wife was employed part-time and paid gross annual income of about 
£15,000;
Their assets comprised the family home valued at about £350,000. They had cash 
savings of about £2,000 and some shares valued at about £5,000;
Their liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage on the marital home which had an 
outstanding balance of about £85,000 and was due to be repaid in 2037. They didnt 
have any other debts or liabilities;
After paying for bills and essentials, they had surplus disposable income in excess of 
£1,000 available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had been a 
member of Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since around 
2014. The total annual contribution paid into his DC plan was 16% of his gross 
annual salary. The value of his DC plan was then about £30,000. He also had about 
10 years pensionable service in a former employers DB pension scheme which had 
been transferred to the PPF and estimated to provide an annual pension of about 
£4,400 from age 63. He was also on course to receive the full state pension at age 
67;
Through his employment he had a lump sum death in service benefit based on a 
multiple of his salary;
He was an inexperienced investor with limited knowledge and experience of 
investments;
IFM issued a suitability report to Mr H in September 2017, a copy of which Mr H provided to 
this service. This explained that he had three options regarding his safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP (the transfer value offered by 
the BSPS was £137,764.32)
It was noted in the suitability report that Mr Hs primary objective regarding his safeguarded 
benefits was to retire earlier than the BSPS normal retirement age of 65. It was stated that 
he wanted to retire somewhere around age 55 if his financial situation allowed it. And in 
reference to the critical yield, the adviser stated, I can confirm that our analysis to date of 
the British Steel Scheme has shown that annual investment returns of typically around 6  
8.0% p.a. are required in order to match the benefits available at 65 from the current British 
Steel scheme. 
IFMs adviser discounted the PPF and BSPS2 options and instead recommended that Mr H 
accept the transfer value of £137,764.32 and transfer to a PPP provided by Royal London 
for the following reasons:
You require the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income 
you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your circumstances, needs 
and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) income that your 
existing defined benefits pension would provide.
You want to ensure you can retire when you want and do not want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or it becomes the 'new' 
British Steel Pension Scheme.You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund.
The costs associated with the recommendation were as follows:
Initial advice charge 
1.99% (or £2,755)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation
Ongoing annual charges
0.45% investment annual management charge deducted from the PPP fund value 
(the product charge was noted as nil)
The basis of the recommendation was that following the pension transfer, IFM would 
provide ongoing advice regarding the management and investment of the 
recommended PPP. The cost of that ongoing advice wasnt stated in the suitability 
report (but Mr H has told us that IFM charged an annual fee of 0.5% of his PPP fund 
value)
Mr H accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed 
in December 2017. IFM recommended that the PPP fund value be invested in Royal 
Londons Governed Portfolio 2 fund to align with Mr Hs Moderate risk profile. According to 
the suitability report, the Governed Portfolio 2 fund was appropriate for an investor who had 
a cautious attitude to risk over a medium time period away from retirement.
Mr H has since transferred the value of his Royal London PPP to his DC pension plan 
provided by Aviva.
This complaint
During 2022, Mr H contacted this service to raise a complaint about the suitability of IFMs 
pension transfer advice. He thought that the advice had caused him to suffer a financial loss. 
We contacted IFM to tell it about Mr Hs complaint and to give it a chance to investigate the 
matter. But IFM didnt issue a final response letter to Mr H either accepting or rejecting this 
complaint. So the matter was referred back to us.
In November 2022, one of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended it 
be upheld because, in her view, IFM failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring to the 
PPP was clearly in Mr Hs best interests compared to the alternative options. She thought 
suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator 
recommended that IFM carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on 
the basis that Mr H transferred to the BSPS2, took benefits at age 65 and would be a 20% 
income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, she recommended that IFM pay Mr H £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
Mr H accepted our investigators assessment. IFM didnt provide a response to our 
investigator. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me to 
review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
IFMs response to this complaint
After being informed by this service about Mr Hs complaint, IFM didnt issue a final response 
letter to him either accepting or rejecting this complaint. And it didnt provide a response to 
our investigators assessment. Its unclear why. Regardless of its reasons, Ive decided that 
IFM has had sufficient time to respond and set out its position. Based on the testimony and 
contemporaneous documents provided by Mr H, Im satisfied that I have sufficient 
information to be able to decide this complaint.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
COBS 4.2.1R: A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading
 
The suitability rules and guidance that applied when IFM advised Mr H were set out in COBS 
9.2. The relevant rules were COBS 9.2.1R and 9.2.2R.
The provision in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client 
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with 
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of IFMs advice to Mr H, its necessary for me to have due regard 
to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Hs situation
The situation for Mr H wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. Three options were available, as set out in the suitability report.
The BSPS was one of the largest DB pension schemes in the UK with approximately 
125,000 members. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for BSPS 
members, many of whom had been largely passive pension savers and found themselves 
having to make major and irreversible choices about their financial futures. I think its fair to 
say that many members were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the 
future of the BSPS. As a result, I think it was essential for any regulated adviser making a 
recommendation to a BSPS member to have a detailed understanding of each of the options 
available and of their customers personal circumstances.
The PPF and BSPS2 options provided guaranteed lifetime income but there were 
differences between them for deferred members like Mr H. The PPF was designed to 
provide members with at least 90% of their starting pension value but the BSPS2 was 
designed to provide members with 100%. The PPF was likely the better option for unmarried 
members who expected to retire early or take the maximum tax-free cash available even 
allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the 
better option for married members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme 
normal retirement age of 65. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary 
increases to the scheme pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to 
transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable. The benefits available under the 
PPP option would be dependent on the performance of underlying investments and annuity 
rates available at retirement  in other words, there were no guarantees regarding the level 
of benefits paid.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve considered that the BSPS2 
was likely to be the better option for Mr H based on his personal circumstances and the 
uncertainty about when he would be able to retire. And so its my view that IFM shouldve only recommended a transfer to the PPP in favour of the BSPS2 if it could clearly 
demonstrate why it was in Mr Hs best interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Having considered the evidence, I agree with the investigators view that IFMs pension 
transfer advice to Mr H was unsuitable for largely the same reasons. My view can be 
summarised as follows:
The primary purpose of a pension is to meet the income needs of an individual during 
retirement. Mr H had other pension benefits with the PPF and in his DC plan and so 
wasnt entirely reliant on the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. But I 
think its fair to say that his BSPS benefits, accounting for 9 years and 8 months 
pensionable service, still represented a significant proportion of his retirement 
provision built up by that time. Its undeniable that when he retired he would be 
reliant, in some part, on the value of his BSPS benefits to generate a minimum level 
of core income to support his standard of living in retirement until state pension age. 
So I think it was important not to expose the value of his BSPS benefits to 
unnecessary risk by treating flexibility, control and maximisation of death benefits as 
a high priority at the expense of the primary income purpose  unless there was a 
clearly suitable reason to do so;
According to the suitability report, the primary aim of the pension transfer was so that 
Mr H could retire early, from around age 55 if his financial situation allowed it. But he 
was then aged 46 (at the time of the advice) and so couldnt access any benefits until 
age 55 at the earliest under the PPP. In my view, with such a time frame until 
pension benefits could be accessed, it made the case for a pension transfer at that 
time  for the sake of achieving possible early retirement  more difficult to justify. 
And it seems IFM agreed because in its suitability report it stated, Given your age 
and that retirement is likely to be in excess of 10 years away, its impossible to know 
at this stage what type of retirement income will be the most appropriate choice for 
you in the future. In other words, its far too early to know whether the income 
flexibility offered by a Personal Pension for example or the availability of more tax-
free cash will satisfy your needs better than the British Steel pension.";
I think the suitability report misled Mr H about the ability to take early retirement 
benefits under the PPF and BSPS2 options. It stated that retiring at age 55 under the 
BSPS would lead to a 30% reduction in benefits and that, Early retirement will not be 
an option under the PPF whilst we understand the British Steel 2 Pension Scheme 
will allow it using similar early retirement factors. The reference to the PPF is 
incorrect since members are entitled to take benefits early from age 55 onwards 
subject to a reduction. IFM portrayed the reduction as a penalty. But it wasnt a 
penalty. Rather, the reduction was applied to reflect the fact that the scheme would 
have to support the income for longer than anticipated, and to protect the interests of 
scheme members generally. And so, based on what IFM said, its likely Mr H 
incorrectly believed he would be unfairly treated if he took benefits early under the 
BSPS2;
IFM stated in the suitability report that at age 65 the BSPS would pay Mr H an annual 
pension of £6,072. But that was the revalued pension figure as at September 2017 
when he was aged 46, so could be regarded as misleading. IFM attempted to show 
in the suitability report the early retirement pension payable under the BSPS at age 
55. It stated, For illustrative purposes only, if you were 55 now and retiring under the 
current British Steel scheme, the annual pension would be c£4,250 per year or 
c£3,000 with a tax-free lump sum of £20,000. But that illustration was potentially 
misleading for an inexperienced investor like Mr H. This is because that figure of £6,072 would need to be revalued to age 55 before the 30% reduction for early 
retirement was applied  but IFM applied it to the revalued pension as at age 46. I 
think the way the information was presented may have misled Mr H to believe that 
the benefits payable by the BSPS (and therefore the BSPS2) at age 55 were lower 
than was actually the case;
IFM portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP 
wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any resulting 
income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to 
Mr H so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would 
likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65. So I think he made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position in this regard;
The basis of the advice wasnt to enable Mr H to retire immediately but instead at 
some indeterminate point in the future. IFM failed to obtain the necessary information 
relating to Mr Hs financial situation including his anticipated income and expenditure 
during retirement when assessing whether it was suitable for him to transfer out of 
the BSPS to achieve his early retirement objective. It may well have been the case 
that Mr Hs retirement income need couldve been met by the BSPS2 but IFM failed 
to establish this. Ultimately, however, theres insufficient evidence to demonstrate 
why it was in Mr Hs best interests to transfer at that time to achieve his early 
retirement objective or whether he could in fact retire earlier than age 65; 
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated 
with his safeguarded benefits being transferred from the scheme to Mr H. Those risks 
wouldve been retained by the BSPS2 had he transferred to that scheme  I cant see 
that there was any compelling reason for Mr H to take on those risks at that time;
Had IFM advised Mr H to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 46;
IFM recorded that Mr H wanted to transfer his safeguarded benefits to a PPP to 
provide greater flexibility when drawing benefits from his pension fund rather than 
have guaranteed lifetime income. Flexibility and control might sound attractive, but I 
cant see that he had any concrete need for it. Im not persuaded that it was 
appropriate for an inexperienced investor to relinquish the guarantees attached to a 
significant part of his retirement provision in exchange for more risk so that he could 
access flexible benefits in the future. Theres no real evidence that Mr H required the 
flexibility of irregular lump sums or variable income during retirement. But if he did 
require it, then any flexible needs couldve been met by his DC workplace pension. It 
was then valued at about £30,000 and his total annual contribution was 16% of his 
gross annual salary. Given his age and the time frame involved, I think its likely hed 
have access to a significant DC fund to meet any flexible retirement needs by the 
time he retired. And hed also have access to tax-free cash under the BSPS2 and 
PPF (in respect of pensionable service built up in a former employers DB pension 
scheme);
Mr H had surplus disposable income in excess of £1,000 available every month. 
Theres inadequate evidence that IFM considered saving some of these additional 
monies in either a pension, investment or savings account to provide flexible income 
or lump sums rather than transferring and losing benefit guarantees;Mr H had received guaranteed income all his working life. So I think a guaranteed 
retirement income from another source such as the BSPS2 before state pension age 
wouldve been valuable for an individual in his circumstances;
IFM recorded that Mr H was concerned about the security of his safeguarded 
benefits and didnt want the scheme or PPF to have control over his pension. But 
he appears to have been a largely passive pension saver up until that point. Theres 
no evidence he had experience of controlling, managing or investing large sums of 
money. In my view, Mr H had limited knowledge and experience to enable him to 
understand the risks involved in transferring his safeguarded benefits; 
It was noted that Mr H was concerned about a transfer to the PPF at a later date. 
While I understand that he may have been concerned about this, I dont consider a 
transfer to the PPF was an outcome to avoid. Under the PPF, Mr H wouldve 
received a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This contrasted with the 
recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. 
If Mr H was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF 
which would result in him losing 10% of the scheme pension, then I question why, as 
an inexperienced investor, he would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP and 
invest on a Moderate risk basis which exposed his benefits to unlimited downside 
risks where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This doesnt make 
sense to me; 
The suitability report mentioned that Mr H wanted to ensure that any unused pension 
benefits be inherited by his family. The existing death benefits with the BSPS were 
not to be underestimated. Mr Hs wife wouldve received a guaranteed spouses 
pension which escalated each year for life which wouldve been valuable if Mr H 
predeceased her. While I understand that death benefits are important to consumers, 
the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mr H about what was best for his own 
retirement provision. Mr H was in good health at the time. Withdrawing money from 
the PPP to meet income and lump sum needs would likely mean that the size of the 
fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller 
than expected. I cant see that this was explained to Mr H. Through his employment 
he had a generous lump sum death in service benefit. In addition, the value of his DC 
pension plan would be payable as a tax-free lump sum. So its clear his wife would 
receive a large (relative to their wider financial situation) lump sum death benefit from 
other sources in the event of his death. And if this was deemed insufficient, the 
surplus disposable income he had available couldve been used to obtain life cover to 
provide a lump sum on death;
Theres no evidence that IFM carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) based on 
Mr Hs specific circumstances in line with COBS 19.1.2R. Rather, in the suitability 
report, it inexplicably provided a generic critical yield figure. Its adviser stated, I can 
confirm that our analysis to date of the British Steel Scheme has shown that annual 
investment returns of typically around 6  8.0% p.a. are required in order to match 
the benefits available at 65 from the current British Steel scheme. This compares 
with a discount rate of 4.4% at age 65, as explained by our investigator in her 
assessment. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. Its 
my view that a required investment growth rate ranging between 6.0% to 8.0% was 
incompatible with Mr Hs Moderate risk profile, discount rate and the likely 
investment returns achieved by the recommended investment strategy which was 
designed for investors with a cautious attitude to risk. I think these factors showed 
that it was likely Mr H would be financially worse off as a result of the pension transfer;
In my view, the suitability report failed to meet the fair, clear and not misleading 
requirements of COBS 4.2.1R. It was generic with templated wording to describe               
Mr Hs objectives with the result that the recommendation wasnt sufficiently tailored 
to his individual circumstances. I think it lacked sufficient colour and detail. As noted 
above, it included misleading information regarding the ability to take benefits early 
under the PPF, stated a generic rather than specific critical yield figure based on                
Mr Hs circumstances and misled him about the benefits payable by the scheme at 
age 55. And it failed to confirm the cost of ongoing advice or provide sufficient 
information on the alternative options to achieve his stated objectives. I think these 
inadequacies in the suitability report led to him making an uninformed decision to 
proceed with a pension transfer when this was not in his best interests.
Conclusion
The transfer out of the BSPS was recommended on the grounds that it would meet Mr Hs 
objectives of achieving early retirement, income flexibility, flexible death benefits and control 
over investment choice. It appears to me that IFM placed greater emphasis on Mr Hs 
objectives, failing to assess whether the pension transfer was in his best interests and 
whether the objectives could in fact be achieved by transferring to the BSPS2. 
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why Mr Hs 
generic objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish 
valuable benefit guarantees by transferring to a PPP at that time, especially in view of his 
good state of health and level of reliance on these monies to provide retirement income. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think IFM failed to give adequate consideration to the risk that              
Mr H couldnt financially bear the risks involved in the pension transfer. 
I havent seen any evidence that persuades me the pension transfer was clearly in Mr Hs 
best interests compared to the alternative option of transferring to the BSPS2. IFM admitted 
as much in its suitability report when it stated it was far too early to determine whether the 
PPP would satisfy Mr Hs needs better than the DB pension scheme. As a result, I think its 
fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr H, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr H wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. I acknowledge that in the suitability 
report it stated Mr H had an aspiration to retire from age 55. However, he was still about 10 
years away from that age when IFM advised him. I think its fair to say that plans about 
retirement can change over such a long period of time. Im not persuaded that theres 
sufficient contemporaneous evidence that supports the position Mr H wouldve started taking 
his safeguarded benefits which involved taking a regular income from age 55. And Im not 
convinced it could be reasonably determined at the time that the PPF was the likely better 
option for Mr H. Therefore, I think, given his age and the lack of clarity surrounding when he 
would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him based on what was known at the 
time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. 
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr H and our service upon completion of the 
calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of this final decision. Since the pension transfer, Mr H has transferred the value 
of his Royal London PPP into another pension plan. IFM may therefore require additional 
actuarial support in line with DISP App 4.2.7G to ensure that the value of Mr Hs pension 
plan is correctly apportioned to reflect the part attributable to the BSPS pension transfer.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr H accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge him for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr H £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr H the balance. 
If Mr H accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr H can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman