DRN-3091980
The complaint
Mr H says Chic-Kending Ltd, trading as Bloomfield Wealth Management (BWM), 
mismanaged and poorly advised on the management of his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP), General Investment Account (GIA) and Individual Savings Account (ISA). With 
regards to the SIPP, he is also unhappy that BWM advised him to move two invested 
Personal Pensions (PPs) into the SIPP and then failed to invest the SIPP.
Mr H claims for financial loss and for a refund of the fees paid to BWM, he says he did not 
receive the service he paid for.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, before it was passed to another 
investigator who considered the complaint further and issued a view. In summary, and 
including his post-view comments, he mainly found as follows:
Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.
Evidence shows that the SIPPs charges were lower than those of the PPs, so the 
switch from Mr Hs PPs to the SIPP was not unsuitable.
Mr H was in his late 50s  unmarried, on a modest income and without dependents  
in late 2016 when BWM advised him; the assets had a total value of around 
£180,000; BWMs recommendation report confirms an objective to achieve 8% 
growth per year and to achieve an overall pension fund value of £400,000 upon Mr 
Hs retirement, in order to sustain his retirement income; but there is no evidence of 
him being advised and warned that, given his relative proximity to retirement, 
pursuing such an objective would require exposure to higher risks than he could 
undertake and to the risk of losses he did not have the capacity for.
In the above context, the investment of the GIA mainly in property related equities 
was too risky for Mr H and lacked diversification, so the GIA was unsuitably invested. 
The SIPP and ISA were never invested, between 2017 and 2019 (when Mr H 
terminated BWMs services) and were left in cash. This was also unsuitable, as their 
values would have been eroded through inflation and the deduction of fees.
Mr H should be compensated for any financial loss that has resulted from the 
unsuitable investment of the GIA and unsuitable non-investment of the SIPP and 
ISA. Mr Hs claim for a refund of fees should not be upheld. It has already been found 
that he should be compensated for unsuitable advice. BWM discharged its advisory 
service to him, so it earned the fees it received in this respect and it would not be fair 
to deprive it of those fees.
[In response to Mr Hs pursuit for a punitive form of award to reflect what he 
considers to be BWMs negligent wrongdoings, the previous investigator had 
explained to him that no such award can be made because this service does not 
make punitive awards.]
Neither party agreed to the investigators findings. Mr H insisted that his claim for a refund of 
fees should be upheld, he argued that BWMs mismanagement and/or lack of management 
of his GIA, SIPP and ISA means that it did not deliver the service it was paid to deliver. He 
disputed the investigators reasons for not awarding a refund. He submitted press reports 
about a number of cases in which this service awarded refunds of fees to successful 
complainants, and said his case is comparable to theirs.
BWM mainly said that its representations about the merits of its advice to hold cash  where 
such advice was given and then affirmed during the reviews that took place  had not been 
considered and had not been given the weight they deserve. It also argued that Mr H had 
agreed a five to 10 years plan for his objectives, so his dissatisfaction and his termination of 
BWMs service around only three years into this plan was premature  and that this service 
should not commit the same mistake by judging its advice in the same context.
BWM also said this service should accurately reflect a previous settlement offer it made to 
Mr H  that is, as a gesture of goodwill and without admission of fault, a refund of service 
fees (for the GIA and ISA) from when he terminated its service (in September 2019) and a 
full years refund of service fees for the SIPP.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to determine a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Hs case, it is important to first 
consider the service that BWM was engaged and paid to deliver to him. This is also relevant 
to his claim for a refund of fees  in other words, it is one thing to seek a refund of fees 
actually paid for a particular service and it is another to seek such a refund where, 
irrespective of service, there has been no payment to refund  and I elaborate on this further 
below in addressing this particular claim.
BWMs service
More than one service type appears to be reflected in this case.
Mr H has presented his expectation of an investment management service, in which he 
considered BWM responsible to undertake meaningful, active and ongoing (and perhaps 
even discretionary) management of his GIA, SIPP and ISA from the points that BWM was 
engaged, the points that they were transferred to BWMs servicing and onwards.
Somewhat conflictingly, BWM has presented documentary evidence of an initial advice and 
ongoing servicing only arrangement for Mr Hs GIA, SIPP and ISA. However, it has also 
made comments and submissions (and presented evidence) which appear to confirm an 
investment management arrangement, in which it undertook to manage the investment 
activities in the GIA, SIPP and ISA on an ongoing basis.
Relevant evidence in the Client Service Agreement (CSA) and supplemental Financial 
Planning Fee Agreement (FPFA) which were signed by both parties on 9 November 2016 is 
as follows:
A key facts section in the CSA states that BWM provided an advisory service or a 
transactional service; that the advisory service was defined as  Full financial planning service Best Execution of investments Arranging payment of income 
(Wrap Platform Clients only) On-Line Access to accounts (Wrap Platform Clients 
only); that the initial charge for the advisory service was 3% of the initial 
investment; and that there was an associated ongoing charge of 1% (of investment 
per year) for  Annual report One face-to-face or telephone appointment if 
Requested Financial Adviser available to answer specific investment queries 
Office Manager specifically to answer/resolve account queries Update on relevant 
market development Update on tax legislation changes. 
In the declaration section of the CSA Mr H agreed (with his signature) to receive 
BWMs advisory service and to pay the initial fee and the ongoing charge for ongoing 
servicing.
The FPFA confirms that Mr H agreed to pay BWM £5,400 for initial financial planning 
for his assets, with the exception of the SIPP. 
[Then there is an investment platform document signed by Mr H on 28 November 
2016 which quotes the same amount and payment as being related to the GIA.]
Relevant evidence in BWMs record of contact with Mr H shows that it advised him on 24 
November 2016; in December 2016 BWM instructed some trading in Mr Hs GIA and ISA; in 
January 2017 it sent him its suitability report covering the GIA, SIPP and ISA; in the first few 
months of 2017 these were transferred unto the investment platform BWM recommended; in 
June 2017 BWM instructed further trading (liquidation) in the ISA; then the first annual 
portfolio review with Mr H (over the telephone) happened on 9 November 2017; then the 
second annual portfolio review (in person) happened on 28 November 2018, with no other 
activity by BWM in that year; then around the middle of May 2019 BWM instructed further 
trading (liquidation) in the GIA; later in May 2019 both parties met again and Mr H voiced his 
intention to terminate BWMs agency; the termination was put into effect in September 2019 
and by October 2019 servicing for his assets had been transferred to a new firm.
Overall and on balance, I consider as follows:
Contractual documentation suggests that no more than an advisory and servicing 
arrangement existed between the parties.
However, I have balanced evidence from the documentation with the reality of the 
parties conduct. As stated above, Mr H appears to have expected an investment 
management service. 
I acknowledge that the transfers it arranged and the trading it instructed after its initial 
advice, and then prior to and after its financial planning and suitability report, would 
have been done under the best execution of investments responsibility that was 
associated with its initial advice/financial planning responsibility. However, its actions 
appear to have been conducted in a manner that reasonably led Mr H to perceive an 
investment management service. That perception appears to have continued 
throughout and I am not persuaded that BWM acted to correct it. To the contrary, it 
appears to have encouraged the perception. There is evidence of its discussions with 
Mr H in which it assumed a seemingly discretionary role in determining how the 
overall portfolio should be modelled over time, and in the context of wider market 
events. There is even correspondence from BWM in which it referred to itself as 
managing Mr Hs assets and to position itself to move quickly with the cash in his 
portfolio in reaction to ongoing market events  which adds to the suggestion of 
ongoing management.Having said the above, it remains necessary to draw a distinction between the 
service Mr H was led to expect and the service he paid for. As set out above, his 
payments were only for initial advice/initial financial planning and ongoing servicing. 
He did not pay for investment management.
Mr Hs claim for a refund of fees
I am satisfied with evidence that BWM provided Mr H with the initial advice and financial 
planning (inclusive of the wider preparatory work it would have undertaken in order to reach 
the point of providing such advice) that he paid for. Suitability of that advice and planning is a 
distinct and separate matter, which I address below, but the undisputable fact is that this 
particular service was provided. As such, there is no reasonable ground to find that the initial 
advice/financial planning fees should be refunded to Mr H.
I am also satisfied that Mr H had access to, and received the main benefit of, the ongoing 
servicing that he paid for. His BWM adviser was broadly accessible, he had three portfolio 
review meetings (one by telephone and two in person) in the space of around two and a half 
years and there is evidence of servicing activities by BWM during this period (for example, 
arranging the inward transfers over a number of months in 2017 and arranging capital 
withdrawals for Mr H in the same year and in 2019). Overall and on balance, I consider that 
this particular service was provided to Mr H and that there is no reasonable ground to find 
that the ongoing servicing fee should be refunded to him. Ongoing servicing of an 
investment(s) is different and distinct from managing an investment(s), so Mr Hs pursuit of a 
refund of the servicing fees in recognition of his claim about mismanagement (or lack of 
management) is somewhat misguided.
As I found above, Mr H appears to have reasonably perceived that BWM was managing his 
assets. However, he paid no investment management fees to BWM  I have not seen 
evidence of any such payment. In straightforward terms, he cannot reasonably seek a refund 
of fees that he has never paid  and for the sake of accuracy, I acknowledge that he has 
made no claim for a refund of management fees,  but his pursuit for a refund of fees 
because of mismanagement or lack of management by BWM inevitably leads to 
consideration of whether (or not) such fees were paid. I have considered the press reports 
he submitted to us and they feature findings for fee refunds in cases where the relevant fees 
were paid. It stands to reason that a fee that has not been paid cannot be subjected to a 
refund. 
No management fee was paid by Mr H so there is no basis to award him any refund of fees 
because of mismanagement. Instead, and as I address below, the relevant consideration is 
an award for any financial loss incurred by him and resulting from unsuitable advice for 
and/or mismanagement of his assets, if such unsuitability is found.
Unsuitability
In terms of the switch from Mr Hs PPs to the SIPP, I endorse the investigators finding that 
the recommendation to switch was not unsuitable, given the lower costs in the SIPP. 
However, as I set out below, what BWM did thereafter in advising on and/or managing the 
SIPP  and the GIA and the ISA  was unsuitable.
There is no dispute over the agreement reached between the parties about Mr Hs objective 
and about BWMs recommendation and plan to pursue it. He needed growth of 8% per year 
in his overall portfolio and he needed that portfolio to have grown from around £190,000 
(based on information from the 2017 investment platform statement) to £400,000 between 
the fifth and tenth year after BWMs involvement  in order to match his retirement plans and in order to sustain his retirement income. At the time, a total of around £90,000 was held in 
cash in the SIPP and ISA, around £20,000 was held in cash in the GIA and the rest of the 
GIA was invested.
I do not suggest that BWM guaranteed in any way the above outcome. It did not, and there 
is no evidence that it guaranteed or agreed with Mr H any specific points within the five to 10 
years plan at which particular levels of performance would be reached. There is no ground to 
find that BWM was bound to deliver this outcome. However, it did undertake to pursue it.
Overall and on balance, I find as follows:
If BWM did not consider that the objective was feasible or achievable, it should have 
said so from the outset. It did not do that, instead it set out a plan which it 
recommended to Mr H as a suitable way to pursue his objective. The reasonable 
implication being that whilst it did not guarantee that the objective would be achieved 
its advice to Mr H was that with the plan it recommended the objective could be 
achievable. The objective was a relatively substantial one  8% growth per year and, 
in broad terms, a 100% increase in the overall portfolios value between five to 10 
years.
The objective required reasonably active investment management over the relevant 
years. I am not persuaded that initial advice, annual reviews and servicing, on their 
own, would have been enough to steer the overall portfolio towards the substantial, 
and somewhat medium term, objective. There would have been a role for ongoing 
management to provide a reasonable level of dynamism for the investment decisions 
in the portfolio over time and in the course of the changing conditions in the financial 
markets. 
There is no evidence that Mr H reserved such a role for himself. To the contrary, and 
as I said above, he expected management from BWM and BWM gave him the 
impression that it would deliver that. BWM has argued that he was capable of self-
managing his investments and that there is evidence of him having done so, but the 
point is that for the GIA, SIPP and ISA accounts that he transferred to BWM he 
expected management from BWM. 
BWM might consider that my findings in the previous section (above) about Mr Hs 
claim for a refund of fees conflicts with my consideration, in this section, that it had an 
investment management role. If so, I disagree. The claim for a refund of fees has 
been determined with reasoning relevant to it. However, irrespective of whether (or 
not) BWM was paid to manage Mr Hs investments, BWMs undertaking of that role 
meant he reasonably expected and relied on that service. For that reason, he did not 
seek management elsewhere. 
It would be unfair to disregard any of these and in this context it is reasonable to 
consider an investment management role for BWM. It gave Mr H the impression it 
was advising him, it was servicing his investments and that it would manage them. If 
BWM did not consider itself manager for the investments, it ought reasonably to have 
advised Mr H to make a separate arrangement for that  but it did not do so. It also 
ought to have ensured that its initial advice put in place suitable investments for the 
three accounts to start the journey towards his objective  otherwise, what would 
have been the point of such advice in the context of the objective? Instead it applied, 
from the outset and onwards, a wait and see approach for the SIPP and ISA, which 
suggests it intended to actively manage both (and the GIA) going forward. A type of 
wait and see approach also seems to have been used for the GIA.Neither the SIPP nor the ISA appears to have been actively managed as they should 
have been; and if no ongoing management was intended by BWM, then neither was 
suitably invested from the outset as they should have been. I am satisfied that Mr H 
displayed a reasonable level of patience in the matter. His position and the 
dissatisfaction he expressed between May and September 2019 was not premature. 
At the time, the SIPP and ISA had been uninvested for almost three years, meaning 
that around three years worth of opportunities to chase much needed growth of 8% 
per year had been lost. This was a significant loss (of opportunities) over a relatively 
long period of time and it meant the accounts were around three years behind in 
pursuing the objective. 
Furthermore, available evidence suggests that at the time BWM did not present a 
sufficiently reliable plan to give Mr H confidence that the lost opportunities could or 
would be made up for, and that the journey towards the objective could or would be 
placed back on track. In circumstances such as these, it is unsurprising that he 
terminated BWMs appointment.
Mr H was entitled to be concerned about the SIPP and ISA. Their investment (or lack 
of) had been unsuitably advised by BWM (from the outset and during the review 
meetings) and/or their investment (or lack of) had been mismanaged by BWM. I do 
not suggest that an invest-at-all-costs approach should have been applied. I accept 
that BWM was entitled to its professional views on investment planning at the time. 
However, BWM also knew how substantial the task of pursuing the objective was and 
it knew that the task was time pressured, so the idea of doing nothing with the SIPP 
and ISA (both of which jointly held roughly half of the overall portfolios value) for 
three years  whilst, as the investigator noted, fees and inflation eroded their values 
 was unsuitable.
I have taken on board BWMs submissions about how property-based investments 
were regarded in the markets, around 2016, as good and high performing 
investments. I am not particularly persuaded by all that it has submitted, but I 
consider that it has missed the key point made by the investigator  a point with 
which I agree. Other than the cash holding in the GIA, it was mainly invested in 
property-based securities and that did not achieve diversification. The lack of 
diversification in a portfolio can concentrate and increase exposure to risk to a higher 
level. I have not seen evidence that Mr H had the risk profile to match such a level or 
the capacity to cope with the type of loss that could have happened at that level  
loss that, because of its concentration in this sector, could have significantly affected 
the GIA as a whole even if it began with only one security. 
Up to and in the third year of a five to 10 years plan to pursue a substantial objective, 
occurrence of such a loss would have compounded the set back that was already 
happening because of inactivity in the SIPP and ISA.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, Mr Hs SIPP and ISA were unsuitably 
uninvested; his GIA was unsuitably invested; and BWM bears responsibility for them as 
adviser and/or investment manager.
Punitive Award
As the previous investigator explained to Mr H, it is beyond this services remit to make 
punitive awards.Putting things right
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr H as close as possible to the position he would now be in if he had been 
given suitable advice and/or management for his SIPP, GIA and ISA. On balance, I consider 
that these three accounts would have invested and managed differently. It is not possible to 
say precisely what would have happened differently, but I am satisfied that what I set out 
below is fair and reasonable given his circumstances and objective at the relevant time(s).
I am mindful that the three accounts were moved away from BWM in 2019, so Mr H is 
required to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with BWM to provide it with all 
information and documentation, relevant to its calculation of redress, that it does not already 
have.
what must BWM do to redress the SIPP account?
To compensate Mr H fairly, BWM must do the following:
Compare the performance of Mr Hs SIPP  separately to reflect when each of the 
two PPs was moved into the SIPP  with that of the benchmark shown below. If the 
fair value is greater than the actual value the difference must be paid to him in 
compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Separate calculations must be applied to each PP that was moved into the 
SIPP.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
BWM is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, 
it must tell Mr H the deduction amount and give him a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Mr Hs pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into his 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the 
compensation (and interest) cannot be paid into his pension plan, pay it directly to 
him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement 
age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If he would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr H in a clear and simple format. 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
Mr Hs 
SIPP 
accountTransferredFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return Index The date 
on which 
each of Mr The date on 
which Mr H 8% simple per 
year from the 
end date to the (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock 
Market Income 
Total Return 
Index); for the 
other half: the 
Bank of England 
average return 
from fixed rate 
bonds Hs PP 
was 
moved to 
his SIPPtransferred 
agency of 
the SIPP 
away from 
BWMdate of 
settlement
what must BWM do to redress the GIA and ISA accounts?
To compensate Mr H fairly, BWM must:
Compare the performances of his GIA and ISA with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay him the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Pay interest as set out below, income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded. Pay any resulting compensation into his GIA and ISA, respectively, to 
increase their values by the amount of the compensation and any interest relevant to 
each. Payment to the ISA should also allow for the effect of any relevant/applicable 
tax relief. 
Separate calculations must be applied to the GIA and ISA.
Provide the details of the calculations to Mr H in a clear and simple format.
Investment status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Mr Hs GIA and 
ISA accountsTransferredFor half of the 
investment, the Bank of 
England average return 
from fixed rate bonds; 
and for the other half, the 
FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total 
Return Index (prior to 1 
March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market 
Income Total Return 
Index)The date(s) 
on which 
each 
account 
was moved 
to BWMThe 
date(s) on 
which 
each 
account 
was 
transferred 
away from 
BWM 8% simple per 
year from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement 
 
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the relevant investment at the end date. 
fair valueThis is what the relevant investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced 
a return using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as 
the benchmark, BWM should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept if BWM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Mr H needed capital growth in, and future income from, his overall portfolio (the three 
accounts above), and evidence shows he was prepared to take some risk to achieve 
this, but he did not have a high capacity for capital loss.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It is a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. 
I consider that Mr Hs profile was in between both benchmarks, in the sense that he 
was prepared to take some risk to attain his objective but did not have the capacity to 
lose too much of his capital. The 50/50 combination above would reasonably put him 
into that position and it broadly reflects the sort of return he could have obtained from 
an overall portfolio suited to his profile and objective.
The additional interest is to compensate Mr H for being deprived of the use, from the 
end dates, of any compensation amount(s) resulting from the redress calculations.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and I order Chic-Kending Ltd, 
trading as Bloomfield Wealth Management, to compensate him as set out above, and to 
provide him with calculations of the compensation in a clear and simple format.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman