DRN-3161845
The complaint
Mr B complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited mishandled his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Accredited, I include the insurance intermediary and others insofar as I hold 
Accredited responsible for their acts and omissions.
What happened
Through an insurance intermediary, Mr B took out a motor insurance policy for the year from 
mid- May 2019. He agreed to pay the yearly premium of over £700.00 by instalments.
In early September 2019, Mr Bs vehicle and a third partys vehicle were involved in an 
incident. The third party or their insurer reported damage to their vehicle and made a claim 
against Mr B. Mr B reported no damage to his vehicle. But on 12 September 2019, Mr B 
contacted the intermediary to change the vehicle insured on his policy. The intermediary said 
that Accredited wouldnt offer cover, so Mr B cancelled the policy. 
The intermediary says that it wrote to Mr B on 16 September 2019 asking him to pay £61.94 
for time on cover, non-refundable extras and an administration fee (less the instalments that 
he had paid).
At first , Accredited didnt indemnify Mr B against the third partys claim. Mr B complained to 
Accredited about that. It turned down his complaint. So he brought the complaint to us. By a 
final decision, we upheld that complaint. We directed Accredited to indemnify Mr B and to 
pay compensation. That final decision is our final word on that complaint.
In the summer of 2021, the intermediary said that Accredited had settled the third partys 
claim  so Mr B had to pay the balance of the premium for the year from May 2019 to May 
2020. In about August 2021, Mr B complained to the intermediary about that.  By a final 
response in mid-September 2021, the intermediary turned down the complaint. It said that a 
balance of £452.68 was due. Mr B (with the help of his representative) brought his complaint 
to us without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that - 
given that it had settled a claim against the policy - Accredited was entitled to seek payment 
of the full policy premium in line with its terms. He said Accredited had acted fairly and 
reasonably in asking Mr B to pay the remaining premium.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. His representative says, in summary, that:
Theres no evidence the policy terms and conditions were ever sent to Mr B.
The contract of insurance was frustrated by the unexplained inability to continue 
insuring Mr B and was therefore void as of 12 September 2019.
Mr B was offered no other choice but to cancel the policy.
He could well have made a different decision if he had the full facts at the time of 
broaching cancellation.
It was only after Accredited had to compensate Mr B that it tried to recoup monies 
from him. So that was penalising him as a result of the first complaint.
This complaint pre- dates Mr Bs mental health issues and is not helping him recover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against an insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm. In our final decision we name that firm, but we 
dont identify any other party.
We are bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution rules (DISP). One of 
those rules has the effect that a consumer must first complain to the firm and wait up to eight 
weeks for a final response before he can bring a complaint to us. 
I accept the brokers statement that Mr B bought the policy online. So I find it likely that the 
online journey wouldve included reference to the policy terms. And from the brokers 
screenshot, Im satisfied that the broker emailed Mr B the policy terms booklet.
Most motor insurance policies provide that, if a policy is cancelled after a claim but before 
the end of the policy period (usually a year), then the policyholder has to pay the premium 
for the whole of the policy period insofar as he hasnt already paid it.
Accredited had a policy condition as follows:
Part 16 General Conditions
CANCELLATION BY YOU AFTER THE COOLING OFF PERIOD 
... 
A proportionate refund of any premium paid, less agreed charges detailed in the 
Terms and Conditions will be allowed providing that there has not been a claim 
made against the policy in the current Period of Insurance. 
If You cancel this policy and there has been a claim during the current Period of 
Insurance or an incident that may give rise to a claim We will not refund any 
premium. 
If the premium is being paid by instalments, the outstanding balance under Your 
credit agreement including any interest charges will become payable by You.

No refund is available for additional products You may have purchased alongside 
this policy, when the policy is cancelled after the cooling off period.
I find that clear enough. And  if Accredited has to pay the full amount of any claim for an incident in the policy period  
- I dont find it unfair that the policyholder has to pay the full premium for the policy period.
Theres no doubt that in September 2019 there was an incident that might give rise to a  
claim. The incident was before the cancellation and so during the period of insurance.
And indeed, the incident did give rise to a claim by the third party or their insurer on about 8 
September 2019  a few days before the cancellation. Mr B expected Accredited to 
indemnify him against that claim.
Within a week of the accident, Mr B told Accredited he was changing his car. I find it likely 
that this was a result of the accident. So I dont find it likely that he had any intention of 
keeping the old car.
Theres no doubt that Mr B cancelled the policy. Because of the DISP rule Ive referred to, I  
cant deal in this final decision with Mr Bs recent complaint that Accredited wouldnt insure 
his replacement vehicle. 
As he cancelled the policy, I dont consider that the law of frustration applies. In any event, I 
dont accept that the policy became void or that its terms ceased to apply.
As it was confirming the cancellation by email to Mr Bs correct address, I find it more likely 
than not that the intermediary sent the email to Mr B in mid-September 2019 setting out the 
£61.94 charge. But even if Mr B didnt receive it, I dont consider that this made any 
difference to his current complaint. That is because what happened later was that Accredited 
had to settle the claim and it invoked the policy term Ive quoted -  increasing the balance it 
asked Mr B to pay.
I dont consider that this amounted to Accredited imposing a penalty on Mr B. Rather, 
Accredited was seeking payment of the premium for the year, plus a cancellation fee. That is 
what wouldve happened if Accredited had dealt with the third partys claim earlier and 
without our intervention.
Overall I dont conclude that Accredited treated Mr B unfairly by asking him to make such a 
payment. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Accredited not to ask Mr B for such a 
payment  or to direct Accredited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman