DRN-1382796
 
Complaint
Mrs A complains that Santander UK plc gave her incorrect information, provided her with 
poor service and didnt offer her adequate compensation.
Background
Mrs A has a Stocks and Shares ISA with Santander. She asked Santander to collect monthly 
payments of £50, by direct debit, from her account with another bank. Mrs A contacted 
Santander when the first payment hadnt been collected. Santander told her that the direct 
debit hadnt been collected because her bank account hadnt been verified on Santanders 
systems. 
Mrs A said that she had already returned the documentation Santander had requested to 
verify the account but Santander said it hadnt received this. Mrs A said that she wanted to 
register a complaint about this. She was told that the complaints team didnt open until 12 
noon. Mrs A says this was wrong information and Santander was trying to stop her making a 
complaint.
Mrs A wanted to progress her complaint and so she phoned back later and asked for the 
complaints team. She says that her call was directed back to the same person as shed 
spoken to earlier. She had to ask for an independent person to investigate the complaint. 
Santander investigated her complaint. It said that it had no record of having received the 
verification documents and that was why the direct debit hadnt been collected. It said that it 
couldnt be held responsible for not having received the documents. So, it didnt uphold this 
part of her complaint.  But, it did acknowledge that it had made errors. It accepted that it 
couldve had a better process to follow up documentation that it hadnt received. It also 
agreed that Mrs A had been given incorrect information about the complaints team opening 
hours and it apologised to her for this. Because of the poor service shed received Santander 
offered to pay Mrs A £150 by way of compensation. 
When speaking to Santander about her complaint, Mrs A was also told that she could 
transfer £50 from her Santander savings account to her ISA account if she wanted to top up 
the subscription that hadnt been collected. When Mrs A tried to do this she was told that it 
wasnt possible to make a payment to the ISA account from a savings account. Mrs A 
subsequently raised a separate complaint about the wrong information that shed been 
given. Santander accepted that it had made an error and offered her £40 by way of 
compensation for this complaint.
Mrs A wasnt satisfied with the outcome of her complaints. She felt that she shouldve been 
offered more compensation. So, she referred her complaints to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her complaints and he decided to deal with both complaints at the same time. 
He said that Santander couldnt be held responsible for not collecting the direct debit 
because it hadnt received the verification documents. He also said that Santander had acknowledged the errors it had made and had offered £190 in compensation. He thought 
that this was fair and reasonable and so he didnt expect it to do anything more.
Mrs A disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. For mainly the same reasons as our 
investigator I wont be upholding this complaint.
I can see that issues arose in this case because Santander didnt collect the direct debit from 
Mrs As bank account. The direct debit collections were to be used for Mrs As ISA 
subscriptions and she was anxious that those subscriptions should be made. Santander 
says that it asked Mrs A to verify her bank account. It says that it didnt receive the 
verification documents even though Mrs A says she sent them back. I can understand why 
Mrs A was upset when her first subscription wasnt collected and I can also understand why 
she says that Santander shouldve told her that it hadnt received the documents and hadnt 
collected the subscription.
Ive thought about the reason that Santander has provided for not collecting the direct debit. 
In circumstances where it hadnt received the documentation that it required I dont think it 
can be held responsible for not collecting the direct debit. I agree with Mrs A that Santander 
couldve had better processes to follow up for receipt of documentation. And, I can see that 
Santander has accepted that it can improve its processes. It also says that it has included an 
amount to reflect this in the compensation that it offered to Mrs A.  
Ive also thought about the fact that Mrs A wanted to add money to her ISA to make up the 
amount that hadnt been collected. It must have been frustrating when she discovered that 
she couldnt make the payment from her savings account, despite having been told that she 
could. But, I can also see that Santander explained to Mrs A that she could create a new 
direct debit to make up the shortfall. Mrs A didnt want to proceed with that option because 
she wouldve had to contact Santander again the following month to change the direct debit 
amount back. Whilst I understand that wouldve been inconvenient, it was something that 
Santander was suggesting to help, where it wasnt responsible for the problems with the 
direct debit in the first place. So, I dont think Santander can be held responsible for her 
decision not to top up the subscriptions to her ISA in this way.
Apart from the incorrect information about being able to transfer money from her savings 
account, Mrs A was also given incorrect information about the complaints team opening 
hours. Santander has accepted this and apologised to Mrs A.
Mrs A has also expressed concerns about the complaint handling process. Its not for this 
service to tell Santander what procedures or processes it should put in place as a business. 
Nor can this service look into her concerns around this here, where they specifically relate to 
a complaints process, which is not a regulated financial activity.
But Ive taken everything into consideration, including everything Mrs A has said about her 
concerns around the incorrect information she received.  Ive also considered the 
compensation that Santander has offered Mrs A. 
When things go wrong, as happened here, its not my role to fine or punish Santander. I 
have to consider the impact that Santanders mistakes had upon Mrs A and whether 
Santander has treated her fairly and reasonably. Having done that, Im satisfied that £190 is fair and reasonable compensation for what has happened here. I dont require Santander to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Irene Martin
Ombudsman