DRN-3086001
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A.(Mapfre) declined to extend her travel policy for the time she didnt use it 
during Covid-19. 
 
What happened
Miss O took out an annual multi-trip travel policy on 20 June 2019. The policy end date was 
19 June 2020 and the underwriter is Mapfre. Miss O paid a premium of £113.83 for the 
annual policy.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the travel restrictions that were put in place, Miss O was 
unable to travel so she contacted Mapfre on 2 June 2020 to receive a refund for the unused 
portion of her policy as she wasnt going to be travelling. 
Miss O was initially told that she wouldnt be able to cancel her policy. But Mapfre then told 
her this wasnt correct. Mapfre offered Miss O a pro-rata refund of the premium she paid 
based on the 18 days remaining on the policy from the time it was cancelled on 2 June 2020. 
It offered her a £5.30 refund.
Miss O made Mapfre aware that she had tried to contact it in April 2020 to cancel the policy
but she wasnt able to get through to it on the phone lines. Mapfre acknowledged that their 
phone lines were busy at the time and so agreed to amend the pro-rata refund to the date 
she tried to contact it in April 2020, so long as she could provide phone records to confirm 
the date she called. Miss O wasnt able to provide her phone records to support what shed 
said.
Miss O was unhappy with this offer. She says Mapfre knew there were three months where 
travel restrictions were in place and that she wouldnt have been able to utilise the policy. 
She would like Mapfre to extend her travel policy for those three months, once the travel ban 
had been lifted.
 
She brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. 
He said the refund Mapfre had provided was fair and reasonable and if Miss O could provide 
evidence of when she called Mapfre in April 2020, it would calculate the refund from that 
date. He didnt think it was fair for Mapfre to extend the policy by three months. 
Miss O disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So its been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here.
The policy terms and conditions on page 9 under the section Cancellations and cooling-
off period say: 
If you have not travelled or made a claim and you wish to cancel the policy within 14 
days of receiving your policy documentation a full refund will be given. 
If you cancel after 14 days of receipt of your policy documents no premium refund will 
be made.
If you are an annual multi-trip policyholder and you have travelled or made a claim 
before you asked to cancel the policy, [the insurer] may only refund part of the 
premium.
In line with the conditions above, they will refund all of the premiums you have paid 
within 30 days of the date you write to cancel the policy.
The policy was cancelled outside the 14-day cooling-off period so there is no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines, or Miss Os policy, for the insurer to offer a 
refund to Miss O.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, overall, I think Mapfres offer is fair and reasonable.
Miss O was insured from 20 June 2019, when the policy started, until she cancelled it, on 
2 June 2020. And this cover was for any number of trips she took for up to 45 days duration 
until the policy was cancelled on 2 June 2020.
At this point, whether Miss O went on any trips or not, Mapfre was covering the risk of a 
claim occurring, for example, if Miss O had needed to make a claim for holiday cancellation 
under her policy. And the premium charged to Miss O reflected this. So, Im satisfied it is fair 
and reasonable that Mapfre hasnt offered a refund for any part of this period of cover. 
Miss O contacted Mapfre  to cancel her policy on 2 June 2020. Because of the Covid-19 
pandemic, Miss O was no longer travelling, and she hadnt made any claim under her 
insurance policy either. So, Mapfre was no longer insuring any risk under the policy from that 
point. As Mapfre was no longer bearing any risk under the policy from that point  and as the 
circumstances of Covid-19 were unique and unprecedented, I do think it is fair and 
reasonable for Mapfre to provide Miss O with a full pro-rata refund of the base premium, and 
any additional cover options she purchased, from 2 June 2020 to the policy end date of 19 
June 2020. And I can see Mapfre has agreed to this. Its offered a pro-rata refund of £5.30. 
Ive taken into account that Miss O doesnt think this is fair or reasonable and that she would 
like a three-month extension on her policy. But it is a fundamental principle of insurance law, 
that as Mapfre had borne risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not 
returnable. Miss O had the benefit of the policy between 20 June 2019 to 2 June 2020. So, 
its not unreasonable for Mapfre to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. That means I think its fair for Mapfre to calculate the pro-rata refund from 2 June 
2020. Im also not persuaded that Mapfre should extend the policy by three months as while 
she had the insurance, she had the benefit of the policy as explained above. I understand Miss O says she contacted Mapfre in April 2020. She says as the phone lines 
were busy, she didnt get to speak to anyone. She says the pro-rata refund ought to be 
calculated from April 2020. Mapfre has said if shes able to provide evidence of this, it will 
recalculate the refund amount accordingly. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable. If Miss O 
is unable to provide this evidence, Mapfre should calculate the pro-rata refund from 2 June 
2020.
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, I think a pro-rata refund calculated from 
2 June 2020 is a fair approach and unless Miss O can provide further evidence, as Ive 
stated above, I dont think Mapfre needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Os complaint against Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman