DRN-2161862
The complaint
Mr Es complaint is about execution of a full withdrawal from his General Investment Account 
(GIA) with Cofunds Limited (trading as Aegon).
What happened
Mr E mainly says:
His intermediary submitted the full withdrawal instruction to Aegon on 24 August 
2018; execution of the instruction should have generated £30,967.21.
Aegon delayed in executing the instruction and did not complete it until 24 
September 2018, generating £29,204.77.
He seeks compensation for the loss of the difference  £1,762.44  and for the 
trouble and upset he has been caused in the matter.
Aegon mainly says:
The value of the withdrawal noted in the associated documentation was £30,744.03.
A partial withdrawal instruction had previously been made on 16 August 2018, it was 
in the course of being processed and the instruction of 24 August was mistakenly 
merged with it. This led to the delay in addressing the instruction of 24 August, for 
which processing started on 12 September (with payment of £29,208.02 made on 24 
September).
But for the error, processing of the instruction of 24 August would have started on 29 
August; it would not have started earlier because the instruction of 16 August was not 
completed until 28 August; its system would not have started dealing to execute the 
full withdrawal until after the partial withdrawal was completed; the full withdrawal 
would then have been paid to Mr E by 7 September.
It has paid Mr E £250 for the trouble and upset caused to him in the matter.
It has also paid him compensation (including a refund for any fees or charges applied 
in error) for the financial loss he incurred in the matter  based on the difference 
between prices when the full withdrawal should have been processed and the prices 
when it was actually processed (with added interest of 1% above the Bank of 
England base rate and with basic rate income tax deducted). This compensation 
payment was £880.97.
Mr E disagrees with the outcome delivered by Aegon. He seeks more compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused to him (including with regards to a piece of correspondence that 
stated an incorrect name) and he argues that his financial loss should be calculated from 
when his instruction was submitted on 24 August.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He agreed with Aegons position (as 
summarised above), he considered that the matter of the incorrect name in Aegons 
correspondence was not detrimental and he concluded that the complaint should not be 
upheld. 
Mr E maintained his position and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He asked the 
ombudsman to note that Aegon has already accepted its wrongdoing in the matter; that he 
has evidence of encouragement from an official of Aegons to pursue the matter as it had not 
compensated him fairly; and that there were special circumstances in his case which 
prevented him from submitting the complaint in the normal time frame. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aegon has conceded responsibility for the delay in executing the full withdrawal instruction 
and for the mistake that led to that delay. These matters are therefore not in dispute. The 
parties are in dispute over redress and compensation for trouble and upset.
I am satisfied that Aegons payment of £250 to Mr E, for the trouble and upset caused to 
him, is fair and reasonable. I have considered this in the context of Aegon identifying its error 
shortly (around a fortnight) after it happened, readily acknowledging its error and completing 
the full withdrawal within around a further fortnight. I consider that the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr E was limited by these factors and that Aegons payment also sufficiently 
covers the upset caused to him by the wrongly named correspondence.
I am also satisfied with the redress that has been paid by Aegon to compensate for Mr Es 
financial loss. I understand his argument about calculating his loss from 24 August. 
However, evidence suggests this does not have a basis in the facts of his case and that it 
would not be reasonable. 
Aegon was entitled to determine its internal operations related to the processing of 
withdrawal requests and in the absence of unfairness within those operations I do not find 
grounds to question them. On balance and in the circumstances of the case, it was not 
unreasonable for Aegon to have a practice in which a previous partial withdrawal had to be 
completed before a full withdrawal instruction was processed. It could be said that the value 
of the latter depended on the concluding value of the former (and what was left in the GIA 
thereafter) so this is a possible or likely rationale behind concluding one before the other. I 
do not suggest that a different practice was not viable or could not have been reasonable, 
but that does not mean Aegons practice was unreasonable.
Even without Aegons error, the full withdrawal instruction would not have been processed 
before 29 August 2018, so I do not consider that it has done anything wrong in calculating 
redress for Mr E from this date. I am also satisfied that it has properly reflected the addition 
of interest and deduction of tax within its calculation. In addition, it refunded charges 
resulting from the error. Overall, I conclude that Aegons payment of redress to Mr E was 
based on a fair calculation and that the redress itself was fair and reasonable. I do not 
accept Mr Es argument about starting the redress calculation from 24 August because the 
balance of available evidence is that the full withdrawal would not have been processed on 
that date (or on any date before 29 August).
I have noted Mr Es recent comments. I make no finding on any encouragement he has 
received to pursue his complaint. It is the task of this service to deliver a fair and reasonable 
outcome to his complaint which reflects evidence of the complaint issue(s) and I consider 
this has been done. Aegons acceptance of its fault in the matter has been acknowledged 
above. The timing of the complaint was previously determined in a decision about our 
jurisdiction  which I issued  it was relevant to our jurisdiction, but it is not relevant to the 
merits of the complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman