DRN-3598109
The complaint
Mr B complains that an iPhone he acquired under a finance agreement with Vodafone 
Limited was mis-sold to him because it included extras he didnt want.
What happened
Mr B visited a Vodafone store to purchase a new iPhone with unlimited calls and texts. The 
salesperson offered an extra years warranty and a battery refresh with the iPhone.
Mr B later discovered that hed entered into a loan agreement for the iPhone, device care 
and a warranty. He says hes been sold features that he didnt want (warranty and device 
care) and he thinks that these features should be free because the salesperson offered to 
include them. Mr B felt that he was paying for something he didnt want and complained to 
Vodafone.
In response, Vodafone said that Mr B had signed contracts for the airtime and device plan 
and that there had been no error.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that having reviewed the loan 
agreement, he was satisfied that Mr B had only purchased the iPhone under the loan 
agreement and that he hadnt been charged anything extra for the warranty and the battery 
refresh.
Mr B didnt agree. He said hed been sold an iPhone 13 pro max plan as opposed to an 
iPhone 13 device. He said these were two different things, with the plan consisting of 4 
elements, the iPhone 13 pro max, the warranty, the battery refresh and device care. Mr B 
said that the cost of the extra products was reflected in the purchase price. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Bs loan agreement. The agreement has been signed by Mr B to say that 
he accepted the terms and conditions. The terms state that there is a 14 days cancellation 
period.
Im aware that Mr B cancelled his direct debit within 14 days of entering into the agreement. 
However, he didnt contact Vodafone to raise his complaint until sometime after the 14 day 
period had expired. So, Im unable to say that Mr B wasnt bound by the terms of the 
agreement or that he cancelled within the 14-day period.
The loan agreement doesnt mention any of the products which Mr B says he didnt want. 
The only item referred to on the loan agreement is the iPhone. I understand that Mr B feels 
that hes been charged for extras that he didnt want. However, as Ive already said, theres 
nothing on the loan agreement to suggest that this is the case.
To investigate further Ive looked at the Vodafone website to see whether theres any 
information which might help. Under the Apple iPhone Pro Max, the website states that 
battery refresh and total care warranty are included in the monthly payment. The monthly 
payment includes the airtime plan (calls and texts) and the cost of the device itself. The 
payment varies depending on the storage capacity of the device selected.
Based on what Ive seen in the loan agreement and on the Vodafone website, Im not 
persuaded that Mr B has been charged extra for items he didnt want. Im satisfied that the 
battery refresh and the warranty have been included at no additional cost to Mr B. I 
appreciate that Mr B may not have wanted these products, however, because he hasnt 
been charged for them, there hasnt been any financial impact on him.
Ive taken everything that Mr B has said into account, but Im unable to say that the 
agreement was mis-sold or that Vodafone has made an error. I wont be asking Vodafone to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman