DRN-3269345
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc set up a direct debit without her authority.
What happened
Mrs T says Sainsburys set up a direct debit on her credit card account without her authority. 
She says she asked it to remove the authority but there was a delay in doing so. She also 
says Sainsburys said she shouted at a staff member and she says she didnt receive letters 
it says it sent her about a security code. Mrs T would like an appropriate level of 
compensation.
Sainsburys accepts it made a mistake when it set up the account and has apologised. It 
also accepts there was a delay in dealing with the complaint and accepts Mrs T didnt shout 
at a staff member. Sainsburys has offered Mrs T £100 compensation of which it says £50 
was for the mistake in setting up the direct debit. It says Mrs T made a late payment in 
February 2021 and so the direct debit being in place stopped a late payment fee being 
charged.
Mrs T brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended Sainsburys pay a total of £150 compensation. The investigator didnt think 
the issue was resolved straight away and that Mrs T spent some time speaking to her bank 
about the direct debit thinking it was at fault.
Sainsburys doesnt accept that view and says Mrs T could have cancelled the direct debit 
with her bank and it couldnt cancel it when there were security measures in place.
Mrs T doesnt accept that view and says the compensation offer recommended by the 
investigator isnt enough for what has taken place. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Sainsburys should pay the 
recommended compensation of £150 for the reasons I will explain.
There is no dispute here that Sainsburys made a mistake when the account was set up by 
putting in place a direct debit which Mrs T didnt want. I have no doubt Mrs T was caused 
distress and inconvenience in finding out there was an unauthorised payment being made 
from her account. I can see that she initially thought her bank had made the mistake and so 
complained to it. Im satisfied that Mrs T spent some time dealing with this issue in 
contacting both her bank and Sainsburys and would have been concerned about how long 
this took to sort out. I have no doubt Mrs T was worried about what took place.
I can see that Sainsburys has fairly apologised for what took place and that the problem has 
been resolved. But I dont think £50 compensation for this problem is appropriate. I have 
explained what I think was the impact on Mrs T and that three unauthorised payments were 
taken from her account. I dont think Mrs T suffered any financial loss as a result of what 
took place as the direct debit payments reduced the amount she owed. I agree with the 
investigator that £100 compensation for this part of the complaint is fair and reasonable and 
in line with the type of awards we would make for this type of issue and for the impact the 
mistake caused.
I appreciate Sainsburys says Mrs T made a late payment (by a day) in February 2021 and 
that by having the direct debit in place saved her a late payment fee. I also accept that the 
direct debit payments were relatively low and all under £10. I have considered both of those 
points in deciding on the compensation award.
Im satisfied that the compensation offer of £50 by Sainsburys for the delay is fair and 
reasonable.
I appreciate Sainsburys says it couldnt cancel the direct debit until the account block had 
been removed. I dont think it entirely clear why that was when I think it clear it was Mrs T 
that must have been able to use online banking to send Sainsburys the message to cancel 
the direct debit. I also dont think it clear why Mrs T would be able to access her account if a 
block had been placed on it. But in any event, Im satisfied Sainsburys has apologised for 
the delay and offered compensation for it.
I accept Mrs T will have unanswered questions about some of her complaint points such as 
why she didnt receive the letters Sainsburys says it sent her. I can see from Sainsburys 
records that there are letters addressed to Mrs T and I cant fairly hold it responsible for the 
safe delivery of mail. I also appreciate Mrs T says the compensation recommended by the 
investigator isnt enough. Our role is not to punish a business but to decide a fair and 
reasonable compensation award taking into account the factors I have mentioned.
Putting things right
Sainsburys should pay a total of £150 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Sainsbury's Bank Plc to pay Mrs T 
a total of £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman