DRN-1053368
 
The complaint
Mr A and Miss W complain that Haven Insurance Company Limited avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) their motor insurance policy and declined their claim. 
What happened
Mr A took out a one day policy with Haven through an online portal to drive Miss As car. But 
he had a fault accident on the same day. When he notified Haven of the claim, he told it that 
he had an undisclosed motoring offence and an unspent criminal conviction. Haven said it 
would never have offered cover if it had know about these. So it avoided the policy due to 
misrepresentation, retained the premiums and declined the claim. Mr A said he was never 
asked questions about these when he took out the policy. Haven said it was for Mr A to read 
the policy documents and he would then have seen that he wasnt eligible for cover. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Haven 
had asked Mr A a clear question about motoring offences or unspent convictions when he 
took out the policy. So he thought Mr A hadnt made a misrepresentation. He thought Haven 
should reinstate the policy, amend any records accordingly and settle the claim. He also 
thought Haven should pay Mr A £100 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
Haven replied that it shouldnt be held responsible for Mr A not reading the full insurance 
declaration before buying the policy. It also said this had been sent to Mr A after purchase. It 
said it didnt offer cover in Mr As circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Haven thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
went ahead with buying his policy even though it stated cover wouldnt be provided in the 
case of disqualification from driving within the past five years or a criminal conviction. 
Where a complaint arises from non-disclosure of information important to an insurer, we take 
into account the relevant legislation. The relevant law in this case is The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer 
insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
So Ive firstly looked to see that Haven asked a clear question about driving offences and 
criminal convictions when the policy was taken out. Mr A applied for the policy through an 
online comparison site. Following the steps in the procedure, I can see that he was 
presented with Haven as a possible insurer. 
Choosing this option, he was taken through a process where a set of assumptions were 
stated on an insurance declaration that the customer must agree to. We dont find this an 
unreasonable approach, but we expect the insurer to make the importance of checking these 
assumptions clear to the consumer.
But, from what I can see, the first page of these terms, that relating to Mr As motoring 
offence and criminal conviction, wasnt made available to him. The size of the screen didnt 
allow Mr A to see page one of the terms. He was taken to page two and he couldnt then 
scroll back up to page one. He wasnt then provided with enough time to read these terms 
before being taken to the next stage of the process. 
Haven said it sent Mr A its Statement of Fact which, in small print on page two, sets out that 
cover isnt provided in the case of disqualification or criminal convictions. But I dont think its 
fair for Haven to rely on that to avoid Mr As policy. I think Mr A wasnt asked a clear 
question about previous motoring offences and criminal convictions when he took out the 
policy. 
Ive listened to Mr As claim notification call. I think he was very open about his previous 
conviction and disqualification. I also think hes clear that he wasnt asked about these when 
he took out the policy. So I have no reason to think that hed have answered incorrectly if 
hed been asked a clear question by Haven at the point of sale. 
Therefore, as it didnt ask a clear question, Im not satisfied Haven was entitled to avoid Mr 
As policy in accordance with CIDRA. So I think Haven should put things right for Mr A. I 
think its unfair decision has caused Mr A considerable stress and anxiety. The investigator 
recommended that Haven should pay him £100 compensation for this. I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr A and Miss W, I think Haven should:
Reinstate the policy, amend any records appropriately and settle the claim;
Pay Mr A £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
avoidance of the policy.  
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Haven Insurance Company Limited to make Mr A and Miss W compensation as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman