DRN-3366124
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited paid a lower surrender value than 
she expected. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Aviva looked into Mrs Ps concerns but didnt uphold the complaint, in short, it said it had 
calculated the surrender value correctly.
 
Our investigator largely agreed with Aviva and didnt think it had acted unfairly but Mrs P 
didnt agree. She said her fund had increased in value by 3% over the year and that life 
insurance policies were managed in a way to smooth out fluctuations. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons: 
- Mrs P held a whole of life with profits fund with Aviva. Part of the premium paid was 
invested in the WL With-Profits Sub-Fund which is made up of various assets. The 
value or price of these assets are not set by Aviva, but they are traded in the market 
by a fund manager. The value of such assets will therefore depend on the market 
performance at any given time, they are not guaranteed and can fluctuate. 
Depending on the fund performance, Aviva may or may not add a bonus to the 
policy, again this is not guaranteed if the policy is surrendered. 
- When Mrs P surrendered her policy, she said it paid out much less than she 
expected, because of this she thinks Aviva hasnt acted fairly in calculating the 
surrender value. Ive thought carefully about this and looked at whether bonuses are 
guaranteed when the policy is surrendered. The terms and conditions state: You 
may be able to cash your Policy for a cash value. We decide when the Policy 
acquires a cash value, and the amount of that cash value, which is not guaranteed.
- Further, the bonus statement says: All bonuses are payable at their face value when 
the policy becomes a claim, either on death or at maturity at the end of the policy 
term, as long as the premiums have been paid in full.  The policy was a whole of life 
policy, so it didnt have a policy term or maturity date. Although bonuses could be 
added to the policy, I am satisfied its made reasonably clear that they werent 
guaranteed if the policy was surrendered. 
- I appreciate what Mrs P has said about the surrender value being lower when 
comparing it to a similar one held by her husband. But in my opinion, the surrender 
value wasnt something the business couldve predicted or had control over. The 
value was subject to numerous factors outside of its control, including but not limited 
to market volatility. Overall, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the surrender value was 
ever guaranteed. 
- Aviva is entitled to decide on bonus figures and in doing so it will take account of the 
state of the specific with-profits fund and consider its future liabilities to all its other 
fund holders. Smoothing is a key feature of policies such as this and its designed to 
ensure a business treats its overall client base fairly. 
- The decision about including a bonus is at the fund managers discretion and is not 
solely or even mainly based on any markets performance at the point of surrender. 
So, while Mrs P understandably points to the overall state of the markets in the 
months before the policy was surrendered, I dont believe this indicates Aviva made 
an error when calculating the surrender value. This is far from the only consideration 
its actuary would make when determining bonuses.  
- I appreciate Mrs P will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate her frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. 
- On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman