DRN-4334974
The complaint
Mr B complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) have provided him with poor customer 
service regarding a matured fixed rate bond.
What happened
Mr B says YBS staff have been unclear and unhelpful. He had a fixed rate bond which 
matured, and he says he wasnt told by a call handler that he and his mother spoke to that if 
he didnt give them instructions for the account by 31 January 2023 that the funds would be 
reinvested into another product which would be subject to a penalty of 60 days interest. Mr B 
says he was promised call backs from YBS, but this didnt happen. Mr B made a complaint 
to YBS.
YBS partially upheld Mr Bs complaint and they offered £35 compensation. They said that Mr 
Bs mother had spoken to them before his account matured and asked them to put the 
account on hold when it matured, so he could decide what to do with the account. They said 
the call handler at the agency did not highlight the terms and conditions of the account and 
that they would not be able to put a hold on the account as when the account matured he 
would have a full month to make a change, but if he didnt do this then the account would 
automatically change to the default account offered in his maturity pack. Due to how Mr B 
spoke to several call handlers, they said they would be closing his account. Mr B brought his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint and he said YBS should pay Mr B a further 
£65 to total £100 compensation. He said YBS issued a maturity letter to Mr B in December 
2022, which clearly explained his options when his bond matured at the end of December 
2022. He said although Mr B told the call handler he wanted to hold the funds (until around 
April) as he was expecting interest rates to rise, there was no call recording of this, although 
YBS accepted Mr Bs recollection of the call. 
Our investigator said that Mr B also made several calls to YBS requesting to speak to a 
manager or agreeing to have somebody call him back, but this never transpired, so YBS 
should have called Mr B back if a manager wasnt instantly available. He said although Mr B 
was very upset and frustrated when he was unable to speak to a manager and he felt he 
was being lied to, this in no way justified Mr Bs language and behaviour towards YBS staff, 
and he could understand why YBS took the decision to end the relationship. Mr B asked for 
an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no call recording when Mr B/his mother spoke to YBS prior to the account maturing. 
YBS have explained to us that this is because they rang one of their agencies. Their calls 
are not recorded by their call recording system as there are separate business telephone 
systems. So unfortunately I cant hear exactly what was said or how things were positioned 
here. But YBS have accepted Mr B and his mothers recollection of the call. And they have 
said that the call handler should have highlighted the terms, so they did offer £35 for poor 
customer service. 
Ive considered whether Mr B should have been reasonably aware that there was a deadline 
to let YBS know what he wanted to do with the bond. I can see that YBS sent a letter to Mr B 
in December which he and his mother acknowledged they received. Im satisfied that YBS 
clearly explained the process of what would happen. And the letter shows bold text on the 
first line of the letter which says Your Fixed Rate Bond matures soon  decide what youd 
like to do by 31 January 2023. 
So even if Mr B didnt read the full letter, Im persuaded that the bold text informed him his 
bond was maturing soon and he had to decide what he wanted to do by 31 January 2023. 
The next sentence of the letter says When your bond ends on 31 December 2022, youll 
have one month to let us know what youd like to do with your money, and weve outlined 
your options below. So again, Im satisfied the letter was clear that Mr B had one month to 
let him know what hed like to do with his money. 
The letter then shows different options with the first option showing the funds being 
transferred into a bond until 31 December 2024. The letter says On 1 January 2023 your 
funds will automatically move into this Fixed Rate Access bond. So I do think that Mr B was 
fully informed what would happen with the funds once the bond matured. In this section it 
shows Youll have full access to your money between 1 January 2023 to 31 January 2023 
when you can add to/withdraw from or close your account without losing any interest.
So although Mr B has said his mother wasnt told she couldnt place the funds on hold until 
April, the letter explains that he would have full access to his money between 1-31 January 
2023 without losing any interest. The letter then says From 1 February 2023 to 31 
December 2024 youll lose 60 days interest on any amount withdrawn. So again, Im 
satisfied that the letter YBS sent Mr B prior to the account maturing was clear that if any 
funds were withdrawn from 1 February 2023-31 December 2024, there would be a loss of 
interest for making a withdrawal. 
The letter shows two other options in bold text. One of these is to transfer the funds to 
another account and the other option is to close the account when the bond ends. So Im 
satisfied that YBS were clear with what would happen when the account matured, and the 
deadline with which he had to act to avoid an interest penalty if he accessed the funds from 
1 February 2023. So while Mr B would have liked YBS to show some flexibility in their 
approach regarding enforcing the interest penalty, I cant say that YBS were unfair to enforce 
the interest penalty when they had clearly set out to Mr B in writing what would happen on 
maturity.
YBS took the decision to close the bond down due to Mr Bs conduct on some of the phone 
calls he had with them. Ive looked at their general terms and conditions for their savings 
accounts. Im satisfied that YBS have acted in line with the terms here. While the terms say 
they could immediately close his account, YBS did allow him 14 days to withdraw the funds 
himself if he wanted to. Having listened to several calls Mr B had with YBS, Im satisfied they 
werent acting unreasonably by taking this action. 
But YBS did let Mr B down on occasion. An expectation was set for him that a manager 
would call him back. While he did speak to a manager on one call Ive listened to, an 
expectation was set for him on another call that a manager would call him back later that 
day. And this didnt happen. This would be distressing for Mr B not to receive a call back that 
he was promised, especially as his frustration was audibly clear on the calls I listened to. He 
was then inconvenienced by having to call YBS back to find out why a manager didnt call him back and he frequently asked to speak to a manager or someone superior to the call 
handler, only to be told there wasnt anyone available. 
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Although YBS may not 
have highlighted the specific terms to Mr B or his mother prior to the bond maturing on the 
call to the agency, Im satisfied the letter YBS sent Mr B was clear on what would happen 
when the account matured. And so I cant say YBS were at fault if Mr B did not read the 
contents of the letter they sent him  even if he was busy at the time. So it would not be 
proportionate to ask them to refund any interest penalty he was charged for any account 
closure from 1 February 2023, when YBS had previously put this in writing to him.
But I do think YBS let Mr B down if they gave him the impression he could make a decision 
in April about what he could do with the funds, without highlighting to him that he would need 
to make the decision before 1 February 2023. And he either should have been given a call 
back by a manager in the agreed timeframe, or he shouldnt have been promised a call back 
in the first place. So Im not satisfied that £35 compensation is proportionate for what 
happened. 
Our investigator has suggested an extra £65 compensation to total £100 compensation for 
what happened here. Im satisfied that this is fair. Im satisfied that it reflects that Mr B has 
been distressed and inconvenienced by poor customer service from YBS and it is in line with 
our compensation for awards based on what happened here. So it follows that I will be 
asking YBS to pay Mr B a total of £100 compensation, less anything they have already paid 
him. 
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that YBS pays Mr B a further £65 to total £100 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Yorkshire Building Society should pay Mr B £100 (less 
anything they have already paid him) for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman