DRN-1269864
 
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs C. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy which AXA says we taken out in 1996 to cover a store 
credit account. AXA says Mrs C was sold the policy by phone several months after the credit 
account was opened. Mrs C says she wouldnt have taken out the PPI by phone and thinks 
the sales assistant ticked the box without her knowledge, when she applied for the account. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs C has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
Mrs C has said she wasnt aware of the PPI being added, and believes this was done 
without her knowledge. But this did happen about 24 years ago, and I couldnt be sure that 
memories about details havent faded. And, without some supporting evidence, I cant fairly 
say that the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. It would be unfair to require 
AXA to prove that it didnt do something wrong in this way. And AXAs records say that the 
PPI started several months later and so would have been sold by phone, and I think thats 
likely to be right.
The original credit application is no longer available, and there is no recording available of 
any sales call  which isnt surprising as this happened so long ago. But, from what we know 
about how AXA usually sold PPI by phone at that time, I think its representative would have 
anyway been told to make clear it was optional and to get the customers consent before 
adding it to the account. 
Overall, without stronger supporting evidence, I cant fairly conclude that AXA did something 
wrong in the way the PPI was added to the account. It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Cs 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs C to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Mrs C clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  I dont know how 
much detail the adviser actually gave on the phone. So Ive thought about whether better 
information is likely to have made a difference. But in Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, 
even if shed been given all the necessary information, I dont think its likely to have made a 
difference to her decision. (This is assuming she was given a choice  which I accept she 
says didnt happen.) I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for 
longer than her full employer sick pay is likely to have lasted. And it would have been in 
addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also its not clear she had many 
alternative means to pay her living expenses and credit account for long, if she lost her 
income; and even if she did, she could have kept that in reserve for longer. Also it doesnt 
look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. So, 
overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman