DRN-2691614
The complaint
Miss E complains that her building insurer, Fairmead Insurance Limited told her there was 
subsidence at her home when there wasnt. She said shes had to pay an excess of £1,000 
on a claim and pay for a structural engineers report.
What happened
Miss E contacted Fairmead to make a subsidence claim for damage to her home. Fairmead 
appointed subsidence specialists and drainage specialists to inspect her home. A defect in 
the drainage was identified and repairs followed. However, the drainage report also identified 
damage to a water drainage system, which it said is a shared system with the local water 
authority for which repairs would need to be arranged with the water authority.
Miss E brought a separate complaint about the drainage Fairmead said was jointly to do with 
the local water authority, and an ombudsman at our service has provided a decision. 
Fairmead paid for repairs to the drainage system wholly owned by Miss E.
Miss E wanted to know why Fairmead wouldnt arrange for her home to be underpinned and 
complained. Fairmead said its loss adjuster offered to repair subsidence damage to Miss Es 
home, but didnt consider that underpinning was required. 
Miss E employed her own structural engineer who stated there was no subsidence damage 
and no abnormal risk of subsidence. Miss E then said that as there was no subsidence 
Fairmead should refund the large excess she had paid on her claim and pay for the report. 
Fairmead said there was some movement and gradual wear and tear over time and 
therefore subsidence. Fairmead then carried out the drainage repairs and said Miss E can 
withdraw her claim but it would pursue her for the costs its incurred on the repairs.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Fairmead couldnt tell 
the water authority about repairs to its shared drainage facility, but it tried to help. She said 
there were no avoidable delays with the rest of the claim as further investigation was 
required, and reports to review. 
The investigator said that Miss E reported that her builder found a gap in the back wall and 
the front door had moved and said the house had subsidence. Miss E wanted her home 
underpinned. But Fairmeads expert reports showed that once the drainage was repaired 
there was no risk of movement, and superstructure repair would deal with the cracks. The 
investigator said this was fair as Miss Es engineer found slight subsidence to parts of her 
home. She said that Miss E could withdraw her claim for subsidence, but the repairs already 
carried out did correctly form part of her claim, so her excess is properly payable.
Miss E disagreed with the investigator and said she hadnt read her engineers report in its 
entirety and had misinterpreted it. She said the engineer reached different conclusions from 
Fairmeads experts and found no evidence of cracking to do with subsidence.
Fairmead said it can continue to progress Miss Es claim and carry out the superstructure 
repairs as per their report. And this couldnt be done before due to time taken for the water 
authority to rectify their part of your drains  which was unavoidable at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Es main complaint is that Fairmead has treated her claim as one of subsidence when it 
isnt, and this has cost her a large excess and other costs. She said if the damage was 
caused by subsidence then her home should be underpinned. 
We are not experts at this service, and so we do have to rely on the expert evidence 
provided by both parties when thinking about what is more likely to have happened.
Fairmeads expert assessment concluded that cracking within Miss Es home might be 
caused by subsidence and later decided this was due to an escape of water around the 
foundations. Fairmeads expert loss adjusters also investigated the damage at Miss Es 
home and stated this type of damage is consistent with a property with subsidence. Its report 
included repairs to the drainage and then the superstructure and redecoration. 
Miss E instructed an independent engineer. The report described the damage to her home 
as fairly superficial, not requiring building work other than redecoration. Although there are 
sections in the report which suggest the property hasnt been affected by subsidence, it also 
states that the cracking is consistent with what Fairmeads loss adjusters found on their 
inspection and does suggest slight subsidence to parts of the property. The engineer said 
that repairs and redecoration could resolve the problem.  
Miss Es engineer warned about the risks of subsidence from a future discharge of water 
from the drainage at her home, which would include the water authoritys and her own 
drainage.
Having considered all the reports I find there to be agreement that there is likely to have 
been some movement to parts of Miss Es home. There is also agreement about the best 
way to resolve the damage - a repair of the superstructure and redecoration. Given that the 
reports agree on the main cause  damage to drainage, and this is one of the causes of 
subsidence, I think that Fairmeads loss adjusters have investigated Miss Es claim properly. 
The water authority didnt think their drainage had caused a problem. 
From what I have seen of the expert reports on Miss Es claim, I think it was reasonable for 
Fairmead to consider the claim to fall within the subsidence peril in her policy and apply the 
excess set out within the policy.
Fairmead didnt agree to pay for Miss E to obtain an independent expert assessment of her 
home. I can understand why she did so, but this was her choice and our service would only 
expect an insurer to meet an unauthorised cost such as this where the report changed the 
direction of the claim in some way. In this case Miss Es engineer has largely agreed with 
Fairmeads experts and I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to decline to reimburse Miss 
E for the cost she incurred. 
From looking at the handling of Miss Es claim by Fairmead I have only found that delay 
occurred while the water authority was dealing with the repairs  which were outside of 
Fairmeads control. Overall, I think that Fairmead has handled Miss Es claim in accordance 
with the terms of her policy and has treated her fairly.I would recommend that Miss E contacts Fairmead to progress her claim so that an 
assessment of the damage that needs to be repaired can be agreed and carried out.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman