DRN-2025236
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how IGO4 Limited administered and cancelled her motor insurance 
policy. She wants its cancellation charges waived and the cancellation taken off her record.
What happened
Mrs S took out a policy through IGO4 and it requested copies of documents from her. IGO4 
emailed and wrote to Mrs S several times to request these. It then emailed Mrs S giving her 
three days to provide a copy of the back of her photocard driving licence, or else the policy 
would be cancelled. Mrs S didnt respond, so IGO4 cancelled her policy and charged her a 
fee.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought IGO4 
had made Mrs S reasonably aware of what documents it required and gave her sufficient 
time to provide these. So she thought it had cancelled the policy as it had warned. She 
thought the charges had been applied in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mrs S replied that IGO4s communications had been poor. She said she hadnt received a 
letter asking for the back of her driving licence. She said it hadnt given her enough time to 
provide this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S said IGO4 communicated very poorly what it required from her. She said it wasnt until 
the final email that IGO4 specifically asked for the back of her photo card driving licence. 
And then it cancelled the policy a day after taking her direct debit. I can understand that she 
feels frustrated by this. 
IGO4 said it had cancelled the policy in line with its terms and conditions. And I can see that 
on page 21 of the policy documents it states that it may cancel if requested documents arent 
received. 
I can see that IGO4 emailed Mrs S twice asking for a copy of her No Claims Bonus (NCB) 
proof and her plastic card driving licence. Mrs S provided the NCB proof and uploaded the 
front of her driving licence onto its online portal. So I think Mrs S was receiving IGO4s 
emails and she was able to provide some of the documents IGO4 required by using its 
online system. 
On 14 February 2020, IGO4 then emailed Mrs S asking for her proof of NCB and her driving 
licence. It gave her a seven-day cancellation warning if this wasnt provided. This was a 
generic email, but it asked Mrs S to check her details online or to call it if she needed help. 
A week later, IGO4 emailed and wrote to Mrs S asking for the required documentation or the 
policy would cancel on 27 February 2020. Mrs S said she didnt receive this letter, and Ive 
no reason to doubt her. But I can see that IGO4 sent it to the correct address. 
These were again generic communications and IGO4 asked Mrs S for her NCB proof (which 
had already been validated) and the front and back of her licence. But it also asked Mrs S to 
check the portal to see that her details were correct. But I cant see that Mrs S did this. Mrs S 
again uploaded just the front of her licence. 
On 26 February 2020, IGO4 emailed Mrs S again asking for the back of the plastic card 
driving licence or the policy would cancel in three days. I think this was a very specific 
request. But Mrs S didnt respond, so IGO4 cancelled the policy on 2 March 2020. 
So I think that IGO4s requests for the back of Mrs Ss licence werent specific at first. And I 
can see why she just uploaded the front of the licence again. But I think Mrs S could have 
called it or checked online if she was unsure why she was getting repeated requests for her 
licence. I think the warnings of cancellation should have alerted her that IGO4 didnt have all 
it needed from her to validate her policy. 
And I think the final emails very clearly asked Mrs S for the missing document. I think Mrs S 
was able to upload copies onto IGO4s portal and I think she had ample time in which to do 
this. 
And I think IGO4 gave her sufficient warning that it would cancel the policy if this wasnt 
provided. So I cant say it was unfair or unreasonable for IGO4 to then cancel the policy 
when the back of the licence wasnt provided. 
IGO4 then applied charges for the cancellation. Ive looked at these and I think they were in 
keeping with the policy terms and conditions and fair and reasonable. So I dont require 
IGO4 to waive them.
IGO4 said the cancellation is recorded as if Mrs S cancelled the policy rather than it being 
enforced. So this is what she will have to tell future insurers. I think thats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. So I dont require IGO4 to remove this cancellation marker from her 
record. 
Mrs S was also unhappy that IGO4 continued to pursue her for payment whilst her complaint 
was with our service. We cant force a business to halt its recovery actions while we 
investigate a complaint, though we think it good customer service if it does. 
I think Mrs S could have paid the outstanding balance pending the outcome of her complaint. 
This would have mitigated her losses. And so I cant hold IGO4 responsible for the effect this 
had on her credit record.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman