DRN-3730829
The complaint
Miss A complains that Wise Payments Limited, trading as Wise, cancelled two transfers that 
she requested. 
What happened
Miss A initiated two transfers on 25 and 26 March 2020. Transaction #130217202 for 
$150,000 Canadian dollars (CAD) and transaction #130390715 for $4,000 CAD. These 
were being converted to Georgian Lari (GEL). 
Wise cancelled these transfers as the exchange rate dropped by more than 5% while the 
funds were on their way to them. The $4,000 transaction was refunded almost immediately. 
However, the $150,000 transfer took three days to be credited to Miss As Wise account. 
This meant she could not re-do the $150,000 transfer until 30 March 2020, and in that time 
the exchange rate had dropped from what was originally guaranteed. This led to a financial 
loss for Miss A. 
Miss A complained that the funds had left her bank account and been received by Wises 
bank account in Canada prior to the 5% drop in the exchange rate. Because of this, she felt 
Wise was wrong to cancel the transactions and that they should have honoured them. She 
was also unhappy that information about the cancelled transactions were no longer showing 
in her Wise profile and felt these had been deleted by Wise.
Wise responded and explained that while the funds had been received by their partner bank 
prior to the drop in the exchange rate, they were not received by Wise until afterwards. This 
is because the funds were due to be imported during normal banking hours, which was after 
the drop in the exchange rate. As the exchange rate dropped by more than 5%, the 
transactions were cancelled as per the terms and conditions of the user agreement. They 
also said that if Miss A wanted to see her cancelled transactions, she could search for them 
on the website as these had been hidden, but not deleted.
Miss A referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator assessed it and felt Wise acted 
reasonably when it cancelled the two transactions. They explained that while the funds had 
been received by Wises partner bank, they still had to be cleared into Miss As Wise 
account in order for the transfer to proceed. And this didnt happen until after the exchange 
rate had dropped, so they didnt think Wise had made an error in cancelling the transactions. 
They also explained that Wise had not deleted information about the transfers on Miss As 
account, and instead this information had been hidden but could be located again. 
Miss A disagreed with the outcome. She still felt that as the payment had been received into 
Wises Canadian bank account prior to the drop in the exchange rate, they should not have 
cancelled the transactions. She felt she was being penalised because Wise decided to have 
multiple bank accounts for transactions to move between. And she said that the funds would 
not have had to reach her own Wise account in order for the transaction to be processed, it 
just had to be received by Wise. She was also still unhappy that the bank had hidden 
information about her account and the cancelled payment. She also felt some of the 
information showing was incorrect. In addition, she said the investigators findings were 
heavily focussed on the user agreement, but she felt Wise could have amended the 
agreement following her complaint to suit their outcome.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Wise acted reasonably by cancelling the two transactions and I dont 
think it has made an error in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Looking at the terms and conditions under the user agreement for the account, they state 
that: If the relevant exchange rate (as provided by our reference exchange provider) 
changes by 5% or more during the Guaranteed Period, we can, at our option, suspend your 
transfer for a reasonable period of time or cancel your transfer and refund the money to 
you. 
Wise has confirmed that the guaranteed period for transfer #130217202 was due to expire 
on 27 March at 20:41 UTC and transfer #130390715 was due to expire on 30 March 2020 at 
16:25 UTC.
Wise has shown that the exchange dropped by more than 5% at 6:43 UTC on 27 March. I 
appreciate Miss A has also provided some graphs showing how the exchange rate changed 
around that time, but some of these are not very clear and dont show the specific timings. 
Wise has provided a clear timeline of the exchange rate which is what Ive relied on. 
Im satisfied that the exchange rate dropped by more than 5% within the guaranteed period 
for each transaction. And Im satisfied that Wise has therefore cancelled both transactions in 
line with the terms and conditions of the user agreement as set out above. 
Miss A has also made the argument that she feels Wise received the funds prior to the 
exchange rate dropping, so she thinks they should honour the transfers. This is because her 
bank has evidenced that they sent the funds to Wises Canadian bank account just after 
midnight on 27 March. Wise has said that while the funds were received by their partner 
bank at that time, they werent sent to Wises own account to be exchanged until after 10:00 
UTC on 27 March, which was after the exchange rate had dropped by 5%.
While I understand Miss As argument, I do not agree. Wise may have received the funds 
into a partner bank account, or another account in their name, but they did not receive the 
funds into an account that would allow them to begin the exchange process until after 10:00 
UTC. So, I do not agree that Wise received the funds prior to the 5% exchange rate drop. 
And irrespective of that, as explained above, because the exchange rate changed by more 
than 5% or more during the guaranteed period for both transactions, I think it was 
reasonable for Wise to cancel both transactions. 
Miss A has questioned why Wise only makes payments during normal banking hours and 
what normal banking hours would be classed as. This will change from bank to bank, but 
overall, I dont think the concept of normal banking hours is unusual, and this would 
typically be between 9am to 5pm in each respective country. This is a business decision that 
Wise has made and is not something Im able to influence. I can see that Wise has clearly set out that they operate under normal banking hours in their frequently asked questions, 
which forms part of their user agreement. 
Ultimately, I dont think Wise caused any unnecessary delays during the journey of both of 
the transactions. I think it was unfortunate timing for Miss A that the exchange rate changed 
by more than 5% during this process. But Im satisfied that Wise has acted reasonably and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account. They made the decision to cancel the 
transaction rather than suspend it, which is their choice to make. And I think they returned 
both transactions to Miss A within a reasonable timeframe.
Miss A has said the user agreement could have been changed by Wise following her 
complaint to suit the arguments they made. The user agreement provided which was 
relevant at the time would not have been tailored individually to Miss A and would have been 
available on Wises website for all other users. Im satisfied Wise has provided a relevant 
user agreement that has not been tampered with.
Miss A says Wise has hidden information about her transactions and did so without 
informing her. And she feels some of the information held about the cancelled transactions 
on her account is incorrect. Miss A has said she received a notification from Wise about 
cancelled transactions being hidden in her account on 16 August 2020 and how she can 
access these. But shes said that the transactions were hidden prior to that date without 
notification. I accept this is possible, though I havent seen all of the notifications provided on 
Miss As account. From the screenshots Mrs A has provided, it does appear that different 
information has been provided about transaction #130217202 in terms of the exchange rate 
that was quoted when the transfer was requested. But its difficult to see when each 
screenshot was taken and how they fit together.
Its not clear if Wise did provide prior notification that they would be hiding cancelled 
transactions, but I have to consider that information about the cancelled transactions was 
still available to Miss A had she searched for it. And its possible the current information 
about the quoted exchange rate on the cancelled transaction is incorrect. But I dont think 
this has any bearing on the outcome of this complaint. And ultimately, I dont think that Wise 
has acted unreasonably in cancelling the transactions, so I dont think they have caused 
Miss A any financial loss. So I dont think Wise has to do anything further about the possible 
incorrect information held about the cancelled transactions.     
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Miss As complaint against Wise Payments Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman