DRN-3242385
The complaint
Mr A says The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) provided poor/deceitful 
advice; applied a market value reduction to his personal pension fund incorrectly when he 
switched to another provider; and caused him considerable stress and inconvenience.
What happened 
Mr A met with a financial adviser from Prudential in January 2020. The objective was to 
access lump sums from his Prudential personal pension and his Clerical Medical (CM) 
stakeholder pension. He needed the funds to purchase a new home.
The options available to Mr A were discussed. But during the meeting, he says the adviser 
incorrectly told him he had to receive advice to switch his pension elsewhere and there 
would be a penalty charge for transferring to another provider. He was led to believe a 
drawdown policy with Prudential was the only way in which he could meet his objectives. 
Following the meeting, Mr A spoke with the Pensions Advisory Service and was informed the 
advice hed been given was incorrect. He then decided to arrange for his Prudential pension 
to be switched to CM, so his funds would be together, and he could take lump sums as he 
wished. He arranged this himself and informed the advisor he no longer required his 
services - so, no advice fee became payable.
Mr A wanted the switch from Prudential to CM to be completed prior to the end of the 
2019/2020 tax year. By partially withdrawing funds in 2019/2020 he could maximise use of 
his tax allowance for the year. He planned to take the rest of the funds for his home during 
the 2020/2021, when he would have the benefit of a refreshed tax allowance.
The switch was completed on 1 April 2020 and as a result, Mr A says he was unable to 
access all the funds he required prior to the end of the 2019/20 tax year. Prudential 
acknowledged it had delayed the process and the switch ought to have been completed on 8 
March 2020.
As a result of this delay, there were several impacts on Mr A, including:
- A reduction in the fund value switched to CM.
- Income tax charged at a higher rate than otherwise wouldve been the case during 
2020/21.
- Significant time lost and stress caused.
Prudentials offer of redress has evolved over time. As things stand now, its accepted it 
made an error and tried to put thing right for Mr A with the following offers:
- £1,392 to purchase the additional units, which wouldve been secured had the switch 
been given effect on 8 March instead of 1 April 2020.
- £25 interest paid for the late payment of the first tranche drawdown.
- £700 for the stress and inconvenience caused.
- £2,520 for the increased income tax liability.
- £142.28 simple interest (8%) paid for the loss of use of the above amount taxed.
Mr A noted the amount paid for the increased tax liability was satisfactory compensation. 
However, he remains unhappy overall with Prudentials offer in three areas.
Firstly, he feels the financial loss as a result of the delay in switching his Prudential funds to 
CM hasnt been fully compensated. The total difference between the transferred value on 1 
April 2020 and the correct value on 8 March 2020 was £2,917. But Prudentials offer was for 
£1,392. Mr A thinks the balance between these figures of £1,526 should also be paid.
Secondly, Mr A doesnt feel the £700 paid for the stress and inconvenience is enough. He 
said countless calls and emails to Prudential, with long waits on hold combined with the 
stress of purchasing a new property, had a significant impact on his mental health. Mr A has 
also informed us he suffers from a severe case of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) 
and this heightened the impact on him of what happened.
Finally, Mr A says he feels Prudentials adviser acted unprofessionally by providing incorrect 
information and its a matter of principle that further action be taken in relation to this.
Prudential accepted that it got things wrong, in particular causing a delay in the switch of Mr 
As pension funds to another provider. It accepted this had significant consequential impacts 
on him, including financial detriment, trouble and upset. But it felt it had put things right.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He thought Prudential had offered Mr A fair 
compensation. He also thought that in relation to matters such as the engagement between 
Mr A and one of Prudentials advisers, based on the available evidence he could only 
conclude thered been a misunderstanding between parties.
Mr A disagreed with the Investigator. In particular, he wanted the matter relating to the 
impact of the delay in switching his funds from Prudential to CM to be reconsidered. So, his 
complaint has been passed to me to review. I issued a further provisional decision last 
month. Neither party had any new evidence or arguments. As such, I see no reason to 
depart from my last findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr As complaint, but not to the extent hed like. In my first provisional decision 
I highlighted an aspect of Mr As complaint that hadnt been fully addressed. Im satisfied 
based on responses to my first provisional decision that Prudential needs to conduct further 
calculations with regard to the redress hes due. Ill explain why.In board terms theres agreement between the parties about most of the basic facts of the 
case in terms of what went wrong and when. So, theres nothing to be gained from 
rehearsing those matters in detail. The main differences between Prudential and Mr A 
concern the extent of redress that should be awarded and the interaction between its adviser 
and Mr A. Ill deal with these matters in turn.
The reduction in the value of the pension funds transferred from Prudential as a result of the 
delay its accepted responsibility for
Prudential accepts the switch of Mr As funds shouldve been completed on 6 March 2020. A 
couple of days later these wouldve been invested by CM as per his instructions. But this 
didnt happen until 1 April 2020.
As a result of the delay in the switch of Mr As pension fund, there was a reduction in the 
transfer value from £82,360 to £79,442  around £2,918. This is understood by both parties.
However, when Prudential offered £1,392 to compensate Mr A he thought this was unfair. 
He wanted a further £1,526 to make up the difference between the fund value he couldve 
received and what was actually switched. The Investigator explained why it wouldnt usually 
be that straight-forward.
The money released from Mr As Prudential pension was to be invested across 11 funds, 
according to an agreed percentage share of the money being switched into each. Each fund 
had a separate unit price to show its value. And each was subject to its own movement 
according to the markets. So, there were a lot of moving parts to take into account with any 
redress. The price of a unit changes daily, upwards or downwards. Its also important to note 
that as Mr As funds were to be invested as a set percentage to each fund, the relative value 
of the 11 funds to each other was also dynamic.
So, as the Investigator noted, if Prudential paid CM £2,917 today, to account for what the 
switch value ought to have been on 8 March, this wouldnt purchase the correct number of 
units in Mr As funds with CM, because the prices have changed. It would either not 
purchase enough or purchase too many. The purpose of compensation is to put Mr A into 
the same position he wouldve been in now, or as close as reasonably possible, had 
Prudentials errors not occurred.
Prudential liaised with CM and confirmed how many units wouldve been purchased, had it 
sent the correct fund at the correct time. It identified the difference compared with the units 
that were purchased. A calculation was then undertaken to find the amount needed to 
ensure Mr A had the number of units he wouldve had, if the switch hadnt been delayed. 
This produced the loss figure of £1,392.
Mr A has now had an opportunity to review the methodology used by CM in advising 
Prudential what was the appropriate level of redress required.
The Investigator said that if Prudential paid a further £1,526 to Clerical Medical, as Mr A had 
wanted, it wouldve bought more units than he wouldve had if no error occurred, which 
would put him into a better position than he wouldve been in, which is not the purpose of 
compensation.
Generally, when asking businesses to compensate for investment losses due to delays in 
switching, this methodology is reasonable.
However, Mr A had made an argument which hadnt been addressed by Prudential. The 
following extract from his complaint to this Service makes his point (bolding is my emphasis):[Prudential] have accepted liability for the delay in transferring the funds and have accepted 
that £82,359.91 should have been transferred and yet they have only transferred the original 
sum of £79,442.20 and the sum of £1,391.88 as financial compensation. This leaves a 
shortfall of £1,525.83 even if financial compensation hadnt been due.
It is one thing compensating me if I had missed out on potential growth of my policy due to 
their mishandling of the transfer but if there wasnt any growth then surely the very minimum 
sum that I can expect is the full value of my policy (£82,359.91) at the date that they state 
the transfer should have been completed by. I shouldnt be penalised if my Clerical Medical 
policy had seen a decline in that period, if indeed there was one, especially as Prudential 
know that I had wanted to withdraw £56,000.00 of the £82,359.91 as soon as the funds 
were received by Clerical Medical. Therefore 68% of the transferred funds (assuming 
full policy value of £82,359.91) would not have been subject to any potential decline, if 
indeed there was any, in my Clerical Medical policy value. Is it not my right to have at 
least the full policy value of my policy, as agreed by Prudential, regardless of how I choose 
to invest or de-invest my funds once they have been transferred?
Theres merit in part of Mr As argument. Hes saying that had the switch of funds happened 
when it shouldve, he wouldve withdrawn them immediately (to a cash account presumably). 
Had he done this, then subject to whatever CMs service levels were for acting on an 
instruction to withdraw funds, the value of the funds which came from his Prudential pot at 
that point wouldve been different to the assessment undertaken by CM and Prudential.
Prudential had already accepted an argument from Mr A with regard his tax liability, on the 
premise he wanted to draw funds across the 2019/20 and 2020/21 tax years. The delay of 
the switch inhibited his full plans and I can see it has provided redress in relation to his 
stated increased tax liability. But I dont think this helps in terms of the timing of Mr A 
accessing funds in 2019/20.
Ive seen notes of contact that Mr A had with Prudential during March 2020 in which he 
articulates clearly why he wanted the funds and how important timing was to him due to tax 
liability matters. But I cant see in those communications any reference to divesting at a 
particular time, or similar instruction.
I also note testimony Mr A has supplied in support of his case which arguably undermines 
his position on this matter. For example, on 8 November 2020 he wrote to Prudential about 
the effect of the delay of the switch on his tax liability (bolding is my emphasis):
Following your letter dated May 2020 I am writing to request redress in regard to the 
increased amount of income tax that I have had to pay in the current tax year (2020/2021). 
As you know I was not able to fully utilise my income tax allowance in the tax year 
2019/2020 solely due to the delayed transfer of my pension funds by Prudential to Clerical 
Medicalit was crucial that I withdrew a large amount of my pension funds either side of the 
2019/2020 tax year end so as to facilitate a house purchaseand I needed to utilise my 
income tax allowances to reduce my tax liabilities.
In order to do this, I needed to request a partial pension encashment of £56,600 from 
Clerical Medical prior to 5 April 2020. Unfortunately, as Prudential did not transfer my 
funds in a timely manner they did not arrive in time for them to be processed by that 
date and therefore I was only able to withdraw a partial encashment of £44,000 due to 
the balance in my policy. As a result I had to withdraw £12,600 more in the tax year 
2020/2021 than would have been necessary had Prudential transferred my funds in a timely 
manner. As my tax allowance was already accounted for with my planned pension partial 
encashments in the current tax year it meant that all of the additional £12,600 was liable for 
income tax at the rate of 40% rather than 20%...Mr A indicates that for 2019/20 he drew on funds from his CM pension to make use of his tax 
allowance. Ive seen information from CM that he drew £44,000 around the end of the tax 
year. This might suggest he wouldnt have taken the Prudential funds immediately they 
became available had they been switched on time. The additional funds he couldve utilised 
from his Prudential pot for tax purposes was only £12,600. Further, he took the money from 
his stakeholder pension right around the close of the financial year  so why would he have 
acted any differently on timing had the additional funds been in his account?
Mr A responded to my first provisional decision in the following terms:
As you have highlighted, and is evident from my correspondence and subsequent cash 
withdrawals from my Clerical Medical account, I needed to withdraw £56,600 before the end 
of the tax year 2019/2020. Prudential have adequately compensated me for my increased 
tax liabilities as a result of their delayed transfer but I request that you recalculate with 
regard to any possible reduced loss of investment had the £56,600 from Prudential been 
available to withdraw immediately after 6th March rather than in April.
I was only able to withdraw £44,000 from my Clerical Medical pension as a result, which as 
you point out, means that at the very least £12,600 should not have been subject to further 
losses in investment. However, I contest that it should be the complete £56,600 that is 
considered as it was the Prudential funds that I had wanted to withdraw and not my existing 
Clerical Medical funds. Whether I re-invested these Clerical Medical funds or took any other 
course of action is not any concern of Prudential and does not mitigate, by luck, their 
responsibilities. The £56,600 from Prudential should, by their admission, have been 
available to be withdrawn from the 6th March and may not have been subject to as much 
loss of investment as was calculated by Clerical Medical at the eventual point of transfer. 
Following my reduced first withdrawal of £44,000 I still had to subsequently make a second 
withdrawal of the full amount (£56,600) owed to me by Prudential when the monies were 
eventually transferred
I couldnt agree with everything Mr A set out here. The funds he moved from Prudential to 
CM were invested as per his instructions. I havent seen anything which shows such 
instruction was to move funds into a cash account or a near cash vehicle. And if there was a 
problem with executing any such instruction that would be a matter to address with CM. But I 
do think Mr A was stopped from accessing the maximum possible funds from his account in 
a tax-efficient manner due to the delay in the switch. Prudential now understands the point 
here and has made the following offer:
At the time of calculating the redress for Mr A he had not taken the additional funds of 
£56,400 and had only taken the original £44,000 and therefore only this was taken into 
account. Looking at the information that Mr A has given us, he would have taken a total of 
£100,400 in April and May 2020.
We are happy to contact Clerical Medical again to see if there had been any further financial 
loss assuming that £82,359.91 had been paid to them in March 2020 and then assuming Mr 
A had taken an amount of £56,600 on 5 April 2020 and then taken another further £43,800 in 
May 2020. We would calculate this redress based on the current values of the policy and the 
difference in the unit prices that would have been bought. I understand that Mr A has taken 
further payments form the Clerical Medical policy and so we would assume he would still 
want to take those payments as well.
I think this proposal is fair.
Prudential adviser conductRegarding Mr As meeting with Prudentials adviser in January 2020. He says the adviser 
incorrectly told him he had to receive advice to switch his pension elsewhere and there 
would be a penalty charge for transferring to another provider. And that he was led to believe 
a drawdown policy with Prudential was the only way in which he could meet his objectives. 
He found out this was incorrect. He feels this is a very serious matter and is concerned that 
other customers are being treated in this way.
I thought the Investigator had got to the nub of the issue here. The incident Mr A complains 
about was a face-to-face meeting with no advice report produced, so I can only consider 
both sides testimonies and say what I believe is most likely to have happened on the 
balance of probabilities. I believe its most likely there was a misunderstanding between the 
adviser and Mr A when discussing matters in this initial meeting, rather than there being any 
intention to deceive.
Mr A says hes dismayed this Service puts such a low value on the general publics right to 
trust and be treated fairly and honestly by financial organisations. I recognise he feels very 
strongly about this matter. But I must respectfully disagree with him here. Whenever we look 
into a complaint, matters of firms treating customers fairly, with due care and skill are 
uppermost in our consideration.
The role of this Service is to consider individual complaints against firms in an impartial 
manner, based on the circumstances and evidence available in each case. I can assure Mr 
A that is what I have done for his complaint.
Stress and inconvenience
When Im considering a complaint like Mr As, I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Prudentials actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. 
Its clear to me that this was the case here. And I think thats what Prudential thought too.
I recognise Mr As experienced problems in trying to switch his Prudential pension. I can see 
the delay caused by the firm had several impacts on him, both financial and in terms of the 
trouble and stress he suffered over an extended period. And in his situation, Ive no doubt he 
felt the effect more acutely than many wouldve.
Prudential has apologised to Mr A for the things its got wrong. Its tried to put him back in 
the position hed have been in if things hadnt gone wrong. And its offered £700 to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience its caused him. Thats considered a 
substantial award by this Service.
On balance, I think Prudentials compensation here is reasonable.
Putting things right
I require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to liaise with Clerical Medical and 
conduct another redress calculation based on the proposal its submitted in response to my 
first provisional decision. If this shows Mr A suffered an additional financial loss, then it will 
need to compensate him accordingly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr As complaint, but not to the extent 
hed like.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman