DRN-3770410
The complaint
Mr L has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a claim he made 
under his home and buildings insurance policy. 
All reference to the insurer Ageas in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr L reported water ingress to his home to Ageas. He said hed noticed it a couple of months 
before but it was intermittent and he believed it may have been coming from a leaking 
internal pipe. 
He contacted Ageas to make a claim and Ageas arranged for a Surveyor to assess the 
damage and to consider validating the claim. 
The Surveyor recommended the claim be considered as malicious damage. His report read 
that contractors instructed by a neighbour had carried out inadequate repairs to a shared 
external pipe. Mr L told the Surveyor that a roofer advised him the contractors had lifted tiles 
from Mr Ls roof while carrying out their works and this had led to water ingressing into Mr 
Ls home.
Ageas considered Mr Ls claim under the accidental damage section of his cover, but this 
excluded damage caused by inadequate faulty workmanship. 
Mr L asked us to look at his complaint as he disagreed with Ageas decision. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. It was evident the 
repairs had been carried out in October 2021. Mr L reported water damage to Ageas in April 
2022 having first noticed it in February 2022. While the Investigator could appreciate Mr L 
may not have noticed it before, the fact was the damage hadnt occurred suddenly, but 
gradually over time. 
Mr L had complained that Ageas failed to properly deal with a Subject Access Request 
(SAR). Our Investigator explained that it isnt for this service to deal with these types of 
complaints. 
Mr L didnt agree. In summary he says that any reasonable customer wouldnt carry out 
weekly checks on their property for damage - it was sudden when he noticed it and he 
reported it. To him, the damage was sudden as he wasnt aware of the gradual damage 
occurring since October 2021. 
Mr L has received a copy of the Surveyors report. He says it clearly reports that the damage 
was malicious and so he believes his claim should be met.
So Mr L wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 30 June 2022 Ageas received the Surveyors report which gave a supposed cause as 
malicious damage. During a call with Mr L on the same day, Ageas confirmed it would 
proceed with the claim on this basis. 
However, on 4 July 2022 Ageas reviewed the Surveyors report again and said it couldnt 
consider the claim under the term malicious damage as recommended by the Surveyor. 
From reading the policy wording, I can see that any claim of malicious damage must be 
reported to the police and a police crime reference number provided. It is for a customer to 
prove their claim - and its for Ageas as the insurer to decide how it will deal with a claim, 
provided it can show it did so in a reasonable way and in line with the policy.
According to the Surveyor and an independent roofers advice to Mr L, the damage was 
caused by an ingress of water from a gap in the tiles in the roof caused by larger fascia 
boards being used by the neighbours contractors when carrying out repairs six months 
before.
Ageas policy provides cover for damage caused by an escape of water from frost damage 
to fixed water tanks, heating installation, apparatus or pipes. 
So the circumstances of Mr Ls claim arent covered under this term of the policy.
Ageas looked to consider the claim under the term of accidental damage 
Ageas defines the term accidental damage as follows:
Physical damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an outside force
However, it excludes damage arising from faulty design, specification, workmanship or 
materials.  So as the cause of damage has been reported by the Surveyor as being caused 
by inadequate repair works, I think Ageas reasonably declined the claim by applying its 
exclusion.
I think Ageas made an error for a period of four days by incorrectly advising Mr L that it 
would meet his claim. But I dont think overall this error warrants an award of compensation. 
I understand Mr L is disappointed with Ageas decision. And I can appreciate that it can be 
difficult having to deal with a claim and the inevitable disruption and inconvenience it can 
cause. But I dont think it unreasonably rejected his claim in line with the policy terms. I think 
it properly considered the claim. But I think the circumstances of the incident didnt meet the 
conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman