DRN-1424273
The complaint
Miss Bs complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Finance. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Miss B responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned 
in the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
VWFS have charged Miss B for an unsatisfactory repair to the quarter panel. Whilst 
the BVRLA guidance allows repairs to be completed it also says that obvious 
evidence of poor repair such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint 
contaminationis not acceptable. The photographs in the inspectors report show 
that there is damage to the paintwork. The paintwork is pitted and appears to show 
some contamination. Its therefore not within the BVRLA guidance for acceptable 
wear and tear and the damage is therefore chargeable. 
VWFS have also charged Miss B for damage to the windscreen that she previously 
had repaired. Whilst the BVRLA guidance allows for repairs it says that damage in 
excess of 10mm in the drivers direct line of vision is unacceptable. The ruler in the 
photograph shows the damage is in excess of 10mm and its in line with the drivers 
line of vision so I think it is fairly chargeable.
Miss B is understandably upset because she says she had both areas repaired. But I 
think it was for Miss B to ensure that repairs were carried out to an acceptable 
standard so that the car could be returned in the correct condition. If those repairs 
are unsatisfactory she may have a line of complaint to the repairer, but I dont think it 
would be fair to hold VWFS responsible.
Miss B has told us that she paid extra for an Audi repair product that she used to get 
the paint repair completed. Thats not something that is listed as financed under this 
agreement, so Im still not persuaded that VWFS need to take responsibility for it and 
remove the refurbishment charge. 
Overall, I dont think VWFS need to waive the charges theyve applied. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman