DRN-1510386
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance, has reported incorrect information about him to credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr C had a car finance agreement with Santander. In the summer of 2018 the business 
issued a default notice then began the process to terminate the agreement. But Mr C 
complained and Santander agreed to suspend the termination. Mr C paid the arrears and the 
termination was reversed.
A few months later, after Mr C asked for his credit file to be investigated, Santander decided 
to remove the default from the credit file and to show late payments for August and 
September 2018, and normal payments from October onwards.
Early in 2019, Mr C complained that the default was still showing. Santander amended his 
credit file manually and offered him £75 compensation.
In August 2019, Mr C complained again, saying his credit score was incorrect.  Santander 
said this kept happening as a result of a system error. It offered him a further £250 
compensation and said it would monitor his credit file.
The default was still on Mr Cs credit file when he referred his complaint to this service on 12 
September 2019. Hes been turned down for credit by a number of lenders and says that, 
without the default on his file, his applications would have been successful. This includes 
applications for a mortgage, car finance and a mobile phone contract. Mr C said this 
prevented him from moving from his parents house for 15 months.
Our investigator looked at the evidence and recommended that Santander should pay Mr C 
a further £275 in compensation. He also recommended it should take steps to ensure that 
the default should stay off his credit file, and that the late payment markers for August and 
September 2018 as previously agreed are accurately shown. The investigator gave these 
reasons, in summary:
From the evidence, he was satisfied that Santander had been incorrectly reporting 
defaults each month. Santander says the problem comes from the credit reference 
agency. But the agency needs Santanders permission to change the credit file. And 
the agency has clearly said Santander is changing the credit file.
The investigator was satisfied that it was the reporting of the default that was 
affecting Mr Cs credit score.
Its likely that having a default on his credit file would significantly reduce Mr Cs 
chance of getting credit. So its likely that Santanders mistake has had an impact on 
him. Mr C could have been up to 15 months closer to owning a home if not for the 
mistake. But all lenders have their own lending criteria, and the investigator couldn't 
say for certain that Mr C would have been accepted for a mortgage or any of the 
other lending without the default on his file. It wouldn't be fair to say Santanders 
mistake was the only reason Mr C was unable to move out of his parents home.The recommended increase in compensation was to reflect the inconvenience 
caused to Mr C, the harm to his chances of obtaining credit, the failure to fix and 
monitor his credit file as promised, the stress he has suffered, and the possible 
hindrance to moving out from his parents.
 
Mr C didn't agree with the investigators conclusions and felt the £600 wouldn't reflect all the 
inconvenience hed been through. The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a final 
decision.
Neither party has submitted any further evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
Mr Cs credit file repeatedly showed information that both parties had agreed shouldn't have 
been there. Im satisfied that its Santanders responsibility to ensure that the credit file is 
accurate as regards Santanders relationship with Mr C, and to ensure the file doesn't carry 
any marker it was previously agreed should be removed. 
Its likely that having the default on his credit file made it harder for Mr C to get credit than 
would otherwise have been the case. But lenders look at many factors when assessing 
applications for borrowing. So its not possible to say that Mr Cs various applications for 
credit facilities would have been successful if only the default had remained off his credit file. 
However, I agree with the investigator that the repeated incorrect reporting caused Mr C 
inconvenience and distress that went beyond the annoyance of having to complain and get 
the matter sorted out. It may have contributed to his taking longer to move away from home, 
causing further disappointment and stress.
Putting things right
Santander has already offered Mr C a total of £325 compensation. For the reasons given 
above, I agree that this should be increased. Taking into account all the circumstances of the 
case, I think a total of £600 is fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance, should pay Mr C a further £275 compensation, bringing the total compensation for 
this complaint to £600. Santander should also take steps to ensure that the default in 
question is kept off Mr Cs credit file and that the late payment markers for August and 
September 2018 are accurately shown, as previously agreed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman