DRN-2539428
The complaint
Mrs B complains that AllClear Insurance Services Ltd (AllClear) misled her about the amount 
of a refund shed receive if she cancelled her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B took out an annual travel insurance policy through AllClear on 11 February 2020. She 
paid £409.86 for the policy, which was due to run until 10 February 2021. Mrs B planned to 
go on holiday on 9 May 2020.
On 22 April 2020, Mrs B got in touch with AllClear to find out if her insurer would cover 
claims which happened because of the failure of her tour operator. Her travel provider had 
cancelled her holiday because of the Covid-19 pandemic and Mrs B was concerned about 
whether shed get a refund. AllClears call handler told Mrs B she would be covered if her 
tour operator defaulted. They also told her that if she chose to cancel her policy, shed be 
entitled to a premium refund of £313.77.
Mrs Bs travel provider offered her credit vouchers for her cancelled trip. So on 27 April 
2020, Mrs B called AllClear back to cancel her policy and accept the available refund. 
Ultimately, she was told that her policy didnt cover claims where the tour operator defaulted. 
And she was told that shed been given the wrong potential refund figure  the actual refund 
amount from the insurer would be £184.44.
Unhappy with the misinformation shed received from AllClear, Mrs B complained. AllClear 
accepted that it had given Mrs B the wrong information about the policy cover and the refund 
amount available to her. But it told her the insurer wouldnt usually allow it to pay out higher 
refunds than the refund terms set out in the policy. So it didnt offer to pay her anything 
more.
Mrs B remained unhappy with AllClears actions and the fact it hadnt agreed to pay her the 
difference between the refund amount it had quoted her and the amount the insurer had 
paid. She asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. He felt the refund Mrs B 
had received was in line with the policy terms and conditions. He accepted AllClear had 
given Mrs B misinformation during her call to it. But he thought it was most likely shed have 
always chosen to cancel her policy, given the restrictions that remained in place on travel. 
And he felt that by acknowledging its errors, AllClear had done enough to put things right. 
Mrs B disagreed. She asked what would have happened if she hadnt cancelled her policy 
and had made a claim if her tour operator had gone out of business. She didnt agree with 
the investigators assumptions about what she wouldve done, as no-one couldve foreseen 
that travel would still have been restricted in the winter of 2020. Mrs B said shed decided to 
cancel her policy based on the refund figure shed been given. She felt the difference 
between the refund amounts was a large loss to her. And she maintained that AllClear 
should honour the refund amount it initially quoted her.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think AllClear needs to do anything more. Ill explain why.
First, its important that I explain that while AllClear arranged Mrs Bs policy with her insurer; 
it wasnt responsible for the way the refund was calculated. Thats because the refund was 
calculated in line with the insurers policy terms and conditions and it was responsible for the 
payment to Mrs B. If Mrs Bs unhappy with the calculation itself or doesnt feel the refund 
was in line with the terms of her insurance contract, shell need to complain separately to the 
insurer about that issue.
Theres no dispute that AllClears call handler did give Mrs B two incorrect pieces of 
information when she first called up. AllClear told her that shed be covered if her tour 
operator failed (which is specifically excluded by the terms of the policy). And it told her the 
available refund amount would be £129.33 more than she was actually entitled to. I dont 
doubt how frustrating it mustve been when Mrs B learned that both pieces of information 
were wrong. And I was pleased to note that AllClears stated that training and feedback has 
been given on this point.
But just because a financial business provides inaccurate information, it doesnt necessarily 
follow that well ask that business to honour that misinformation. Well consider whether we 
think the error has likely caused a policyholder to act differently than they otherwise wouldve 
done or lose out. 
Mrs B says that she took the decision to cancel her policy based on the incorrect refund 
figure she was initially quoted. So Ive thought about this and whether I think I can fairly 
conclude that AllClears misinformation did lead Mrs B to lose out.
In this case, I think if AllClear had explained to Mrs B that tour operator failure wasnt 
covered by the policy terms, its most likely she wouldve chosen to cancel the policy at that 
point. Thats because there was a great deal of uncertainty around when travel restrictions 
might be lifted, which mightve led Mrs B to conclude she wouldnt use the policy during the 
policy year. I also say this because it seems that the main risk she was concerned about  
her tour operator defaulting - wasnt something her insurer would pay out for.
Ive considered whether I think its most likely Mrs B wouldve looked to book a trip later in 
the year and kept her policy for that reason, if shed known the true refund figure. But as Ive 
mentioned above, there was a great deal of uncertainty that existed around the likely impact 
of Covid-19 at that point and its still the case that her pre-booked trip had already been 
cancelled. So I think, on balance, that Mrs B still wouldve chosen to cancel her policy even if 
shed been told the actual refund available to her.
In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair for me to find that AllClears mistakes did 
cause Mrs B to lose out. So Im not telling it to pay her the difference between the refund she 
received and the amount she was originally quoted. AllClear has apologised for its mistakes 
and I think in this case, thats sufficient to put things right. So Im not telling it to do anything 
more.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman