DRN-3613069
The complaint
Miss A complains about the repairs that AXA Insurance UK Plc made to her car after a claim 
made on her motor insurance policy. She wants her car fully repaired and compensation for 
her trouble and upset and loss of use. Miss A is represented in this matter by Mr M, a named 
driver on her policy. 
What happened
AXA took Miss As car for repairs, but nine months after it was returned the grill fell off. The 
car was returned to the garage and the grill was stuck on with tape. The garage said the part 
was faulty and it would pursue this with the manufacturer. Mr M declined to return the car to 
the same garage, so further repairs werent made. AXA said it would continue to pursue the 
parts manufacturer, but it thought Mr M should also do so. It offered to pay Miss A £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
But Mr M was unhappy with this. He said there was now an issue with the cars bumper and 
the garage had said this was due to a further impact. But he thought the garage was 
responsible for this and it hadnt taken photos of the car before repairs to show otherwise. 
He said the grill still wasnt repaired after a year. He thought AXA should offer further 
compensation. AXA offered £450 compensation and said it would continue to monitor and 
progress the claim. But Mr M said they would accept £1,000 and having the car repaired 
soon at a different garage.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was 
taking AXA too long to repair the car and it hadnt proactively progressed the claim. She 
thought it had confused the parties about what it and they should be doing. She thought it 
should act to resolve the issue with the bumper. And she thought it should increase its offer 
of compensation to £600 and consider Miss As alternative travel costs, subject to evidence 
of them.
Mr M replied that they would accept £1,000, taking into account his lost earnings. But he 
wanted the car fully repaired with genuine parts at a different garage and a courtesy car. 
AXA replied that it agreed that it should progress the repairs. But it said had offered to 
replace the faulty grill, and had obtained the part, but Mr M had declined this. It thought its 
offer of £450 was reasonable and it should consider travel costs up until the date it offered to 
take the car back for further repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss A and Mr Ms frustration that their car wasnt repaired fully on the first 
occasion. I can see that this matter has been ongoing for some time and I was pleased to 
see that AXA is now acting to progress the repairs. It has authorised and instructed repairs 
to be made at Mr Ms choice of repairer. But I can also see that Mr M is setting conditions for 
this and these are unacceptable to AXAs repairers. 
Mr M says that there are now further issues with the car and he also wants these repaired. 
Its not for me to deal with Mr Ms claim. I can only consider AXAs response to his complaint 
and whether it has acted fairly and reasonably. From what I can see, AXA has told its 
repairer to look into the further issues and deal with them if they are accident-related. AXA is 
only responsible for accident-related repairs, so I think this is fair and reasonable. And so I 
think its for Mr M to decide whether he wants the previously agreed damage to his car 
repaired or not. He can then raise a further complaint if hes unhappy with AXAs decision 
about further repairs. 
I can see that it has taken a long time for the parties to reach this point. And I agree with the 
Investigator that, after the initial repairs, AXA hasnt acted proactively to progress the claim, 
as it should have done. And I think, from what I can understand of its notes, AXA has 
confused the parties involved about who was responsible for resolving the issues:
AXA wanted Mr M to pursue the manufacturer because the replacement grill was faulty. 
But I think its for AXA to guarantee repairs made at its approved repairer and I think its 
for AXA to pursue the manufacturer if needed. It told Mr M it would do this, but then 
neglected to do so. 
The repairer sourced a replacement grill quickly, but Mr M refused to let it fit it. From the 
independent assessors report, the repairer said the replacement bumper wasnt a 
genuine part and this had caused the grill to fall off. He said AXA had declined replacing 
the bumper with a genuine part. And, when inspecting the car, the repairer had broken a 
clip securing the bonnet. I can understand Mr Ms reluctance to allow another repair 
when the underlying issue hadnt been addressed. 
After the initial repairs had been made, the claim was closed. And I cant see that AXA 
reopened it to deal with the rectification work until our service became involved. 
When there is a dispute about repairs, we think an independent assessor should be 
instructed to resolve the matter. And I can see that AXA did this when the repairer and Mr M 
couldnt agree. He concluded with two recommendations:
1. Renew front bumper cover and check all front bumper and front grille components for 
further damage upon stripping.
2. Renew bonnet stay clip.
And, because Mr M wouldnt return to the garage, he asked Mr M to obtain his own repairs 
estimate, which he did. The first garage had refused to pay for the repairs. But I cant see 
that AXA tried to resolve this issue with its approved repairers. So the estimate remained 
unauthorised for a further four months. 
During this time, I cant see that AXA tried to communicate with Mr M. I can see that he was 
caused stress and frustration by this and by its earlier failures to communicate with him. He 
also said his partner, Miss A, felt unable to drive the car as she thought it was unsafe. As 
parts had already fallen from it, I can understand her reluctance. 
When a business makes a mistake, as AXA accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
AXA increased its offer to Miss A of compensation for delays in the claim to £450. But our 
Investigator thought it should increase this to £600 to take into account that it had closed the 
claim and not reopened it promptly when the rectification was required. I can understand that Mr M wants AXA to pay more compensation than this amount. But I 
think £600 is sufficient recognition of the impact its handling of the claim, its delays and poor 
communication has had. 
To put things right for Miss A, I think AXA should continue to negotiate between the parties 
to make the repairs to Miss As car as soon as possible. Mr M said theyve received nothing 
in writing about the estimate being approved or the garage instructed, so some improved 
communication could be needed. 
Miss A and Mr M have been without the use of their car for some time. AXA thought it should 
only consider this for the period until Mr M declined to use the garage to make the repairs. 
But, as Ive said above, the independent assessors report implies this wouldnt have been 
effective in any case. So I think this wouldnt have resolved the issue and Mr M shouldnt be 
penalised for it. To be fair, I think AXA should consider their costs for alternative transport 
from the date the car was returned for the replacement of the grill until the car is repaired, on 
production of reasonable evidence of these costs. 
Putting things right
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
1. Expedite the repairs to Miss As car that it has authorised and repair any other accident-
related damage at a garage of Mr Ms choice, as it has already agreed to do.
2. Pay Miss A £600 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of her claim. 
3. Consider Miss A and Mr Ms costs for alternative transport from the date the car was 
returned for the replacement of the grill until the car is repaired, on production of 
reasonable evidence of these costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman