DRN-1617419
 
The complaint
Mr W complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Hitachi Capital 
Vehicle Solutions Ltd ended.
What happened
Mr W was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with Hitachi. At the end 
of the agreement the car was inspected. Hitachi asked Mr W to pay charges for damage.
Mr W disputed the charges. He said they were unfair because most of the damage couldnt 
be easily seen and fell within fair wear and tear.
Hitachi reviewed the damage and reduced the amount outstanding to £846.80. It said the 
inspection had taken place in accordance with industry guidelines and that the damage fell 
outside of what was considered to be fair wear and tear.
Mr W wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that the damage was visible in the images and that it 
went beyond fair wear and tear in accordance with the guidelines. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said the damage hadnt affected the sale price achieved by Hitachi 
when the car went to auction. He was particularly unhappy about the charges for damage to 
the wheel caps and said he didnt see how plastic caps could have suffered corrosion. He 
felt that any damage to the wheel caps must be due to age and poor-quality materials. Mr W 
said the wheel cap was not specifically identified in the guidelines as a component part for 
inspection. He also felt he was being overcharged by Hitachi because he had found 
replacement caps elsewhere at significantly less cost. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr W must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the images. This identifies corrosion/rust to the 
front alloy centre caps (right and left) and rear alloy centre caps (right and left). It also 
identifies dents to the rear door (right), quarter panel (right), rear door (left) and front 
bumper. Having reviewed the images Im satisfied that the damage to all the areas is clearly 
visible. I also think the damage exceeds fair wear and tear in accordance with the guidelines.
I appreciate that Mr W is unhappy about being asked to pay for damage to the centre caps. 
The relevant guidelines say that any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia or hub of the 
alloy wheel is not acceptable and that there should be no rust or corrosion on the alloy 
wheels.
Mr W has said that the centre cap isnt specifically mentioned in the guidelines as a 
component for inspection. I understand the point Mr W makes but I dont think its realistic to 
expect the guidelines to detail every single component part of the car. The guidelines refer to 
the hub and the centre cap forms part of the hub. Im therefore satisfied that the centre cap 
is covered by the guidelines.
Mr W has said that the centre cap cant be corroded because it is made of plastic. I cant be 
certain what material the centre cap is made from. However, the guidelines specify that any 
damage to the hub (and therefore the centre cap) is not acceptable. So, I dont think it 
matters what material the centre cap is made from if it is damaged beyond fair wear and 
tear, which as Ive said, Im satisfied that it is.
I appreciate that it is frustrating to be charged for damage to a relatively small part of the 
alloy wheel. However, Im satisfied that the inspection was carried out in accordance with the 
relevant guidelines and that the charges have been applied fairly.
I understand Mr Ws concerns that hes found replacement centre caps elsewhere at less 
cost. I can see that Hitachi provided Mr W with a collection confirmation which included a link 
to the BVLRA guidelines around 2 weeks before the collection/inspection date. I think Mr W 
had a reasonable amount of time to familiarise himself with the returns standards and to 
purchase centre caps and replace these before the inspection date if he wished. Hitachi has 
said that the charges for the centre caps are as per the manufacturers price list. I havent 
been provided with any information to suggest that this isnt true, and in the circumstances 
Im unable to say that the charges are unreasonable. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say the charges have been applied unfairly. I 
wont be asking Hitachi to reduce them or waive them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman