DRN-1868396
The complaint
Mr C says FCL Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Smart-Pig lent to him irresponsibly. He 
says that he had little money when the loans were approved and he struggled to meet his 
ordinary expenditure. He needed to borrow and again to make the loan repayments. He says 
Smart-Pig lent to him over a long time and made his finances worse. 
What happened
This complaint is about eight loans Smart-Pig provided to Mr C between November 2016 
and February 2019. Ive put some of the information Smart-Pig provided in the table below.
loan number date startedamount 
borroweddate ended
1 26/11/2016 £350 09/01/2017
2 24/01/2017 £350 28/04/2017
3 29/08/2017 £350 20/09/2017
4 17/10/2017 £350 08/01/2018
5 22/01/2018 £350 16/04/2018
6 20/08/2018 £100 17/09/2018
7 18/11/2018 £350 07/01/2019
8 18/02/2019 £350 29/04/2019
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint.  She said that the information Smart-Pig had when it 
approved the loans showed that the repayments were likely to be unsustainable. And the 
pattern of lending itself from loan 7 onwards showed that it was likely that the loan 
repayments were harmful. 
Smart-Pig disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said it asks consumers to give 
expenditure information within ranges. And it wasnt reasonable to assume that Mr C was 
spending towards the higher end of these ranges. The median values showed that the 
loans were likely to be affordable. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Smart-Pig needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Smart-Pig should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint and Ive explained why below.
Before loan 1, Smart-Pig asked Mr C to complete an expense form that looked at various 
expenditure categories and asked for an indication of these within a range of values. As our 
adjudicator explained if it is assumed that Mr Cs expenditure is at, or near, the higher levels 
of these ranges then his ordinary expenditure would be higher than his income. So, it wasnt 
safe to lend to him. 
Smart-Pig has said that it was reasonable to assume that Mr Cs expenditure was in the 
middle of these ranges, or even lower. And this would mean the lending was affordable. But 
it hasnt provided any evidence or indication to suggest why the middle of the range should 
be used. 
Having thought about this, I dont think its reasonable. The information Smart-Pig had 
showed that the lending was potentially unaffordable from the start so it should have taken 
steps to make sure that this wasnt the case. 
I think its been established it didnt do this. It assumed that Mr Cs expenditures wouldnt 
reach the higher amounts of the categories and that it had captured all of his likely 
expenditure. Both of these arent reasonable assumptions. 
If Mr Cs expenditures were significantly below his outgoings then its not clear to me why he 
would need high cost credit. And Smart-Pig is required to perform a borrower focussed 
check into Mr Cs circumstances to see if he could afford the loan repayments. I dont see how assuming that Mr Cs expenditure was at the middle or the lower levels of the ranges 
does this. I think it ignores the fact that Mr C has provided information that shows he may be 
in financial difficulty.  
So I dont think, what seems to be a cursory check into Mr Cs expenditure, did enough to 
establish whether loans 1 to 6 were affordable for him. 
Mr Cs income over his educational terms was modest and the total amount he would need 
to repay, again over his terms, was a fairly high proportion of this at around 20%. So I dont 
think the loan repayments for loans 1 to 6 were likely to be affordable for Mr C and Im 
upholding his complaint on this basis. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 7 and 8 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Smart-Pigs 
lending history with Mr C, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Smart-Pig 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
And so Smart-Pig should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
7. I say this because:
At this point Smart-Pig ought to have realised Mr C was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr C had been indebted to Smart-Pig for two years. So Smart-Pig 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr C was having to borrow further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that his 
indebtedness was unsustainable.
Mr C was provided with a new loan each term over when he was borrowing from 
Smart Pig. There wasnt an appreciable break in the lending.
And Mr C didnt make any real inroads to the amount he owed Smart-Pig. Loan 8 
was taken out around two and half years after Mr Cs first. And it was for the same 
amount as loan 1. Mr C had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt 
to Smart-Pig over an extended period.
I think that Mr C lost out because Smart-Pig continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr C borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 7 and 8 and Smart-Pig should put 
things right.
Putting things right
Smart-Pig shouldnt have given Mr C loans 1 to 8.
A) Smart-Pig should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.B) Smart-Pig should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Smart-Pig should pay Mr C the total of A plus B.
D) Smart-Pig should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Cs credit file in 
relation to loans 1 to 6. The overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing for loans 7 and 8 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Cs credit file. If Smart-Pig has sold any of the loans Smart-Pig should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Smart-Pig to deduct tax from this interest. Smart-Pig 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax Smart-Pig has deducted, if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Cs complaint.
FCL Consumer Finance Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman