DRN-4248910
The complaint
Mr N complains that he was mis-sold a timeshare product. Because he paid part of the 
purchase price using his Halifax credit card (issued by Bank of Scotland plc), he says that it 
is responsible along with the seller.  
What happened
Mr N has explained that he and his wife were on honeymoon in Mexico in 2014. They were 
invited to a reception meeting, which they were told would last about an hour. In fact, it 
lasted several hours, at the end of which they agreed to pay US$12,700 for 20,000 
Options. They were told that the Options could be exchanged for holiday accommodation 
at the resort every other year; they could also use them at other resorts with which the resort 
had arrangements. 
Most of the purchase price was paid with the help of a loan, but Mr N paid a deposit of 
US$1,905 with his Halifax credit card. 
In early 2019 Mr N complained to the resort. He said that it was difficult to book 
accommodation and that identical accommodation was available online at lower prices than 
he was able to secure using his Options. The resort did not accept what Mr N said, and it 
suggested different ways of using his Options. It also provided what it thought was evidence 
that bookings could be made more cheaply than those available to the general public. Mr N 
thought however that, in the circumstances, his Options had no real value. He asked to 
return them and for his money back. The resort declined.
In January 2020 Mr N contacted Halifax. He said that, under section 56 and section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, it was responsible for the actions of the seller. Halifax noted 
however that Mr Ns contract with the seller included provisions which meant he could not 
bring a claim for misrepresentation. It did not think the seller was in breach of contract. 
Mr N referred the matter to this service through a claims management business, which Ill 
call S. In summary, he said:
He entered into the contract for the purchase of Options as a result of 
misrepresentations on the part of the seller. As a result, he has a claim against Halifax 
in the same way as against the seller.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act makes Halifax responsible for statements made 
by the seller in connection with the sale.
The actions of the seller and the nature of the sale contract mean that the credit card 
agreement creates an unfair relationship between him and Halifax.  
Mr N seeks a refund from Halifax of money paid under the sale contract  not limited to that 
which he paid using his credit card. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but was not persuaded to uphold 
the complaint. S did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.  
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a supplier in relation 
to a transaction financed or proposed to be financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement are deemed as being conducted by the supplier as agent for the creditor.
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions includes :
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
The supplier in this case was Sol Meli VC Mexico SA de CV, a Mexican company. Mr Ns 
credit card statement shows a payment on 11 May 2014 of US$2,540 to Resorts ADV Sol 
Melia, which I take to be a reference to a payment to the same company in respect of the 
timeshare. I am satisfied therefore that there was a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in 
this case and that sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act could apply in this case. 
I have therefore considered what Mr N has said about the sale contract and the statements 
which led him to enter into it. 
However, I do not believe that the timeshare contract in this case was governed by English 
law. It was executed in Mexico, and the seller was a Mexican company. In addition: 
The ninth clause of the timeshare contract includes a reference to article 70 of the 
Federal Consumer Protection Law, a Mexican statute. 
The fifteenth clause deals with competency and jurisdiction and says that any dispute 
should be referred to the Federal Consumer Protection Bureau, a Mexican organisation.    
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act can apply to overseas contracts  including 
those which are subject to a law other than English law. But, in considering whether Mr N 
might have an underlying claim against the seller, I must have in mind that Mexican law may 
be different from English law. I have not been provided with any evidence of Mexican law, 
but it is open to the parties to make further submissions on it if they wish to do so.
I do note however that Mr N signed an acknowledgment that there had been  no oral or 
written representations other than those contained in the vacation purchase agreement and 
network services agreement 
I think the paperwork also made clear that additional charges could apply at resorts and that 
bookings were made on a first-come first-served basis. If chosen accommodation was not 
available, the resort said it would seek to find suitable alternatives, and the evidence I have 
seen indicates that it did that.         
In the circumstances, I do not believe that there is sufficient evidence that Mr N has a claim 
against the seller which could in turn give rise to a claim against Halifax. 
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.In deciding whether to make orders under these provisions, a court can consider any linked 
agreement  which in this case would include the timeshare contract. Again, I do not 
understand the fact that a linked agreement is subject to overseas law to be a bar to claims 
under section 140A and section 140B. The provisions of the applicable law must however be 
a relevant consideration. 
For the reasons I have explained, I think it unlikely that a court would make an order under 
section 140B on the basis of misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
But S seeks to rely on other matters in support of its claim that the timeshare contract makes 
the credit card agreement unfair. Specifically, it says:
The type of contract which Mr N signed has been declared unlawful (and 
unenforceable) as a matter of Spanish law.
The contract does not comply with relevant timeshare law. It mentions European 
Directive 94/47/EC, but the Directive that applied in the EU at the time was 
2008/122/EC. 
Some of its terms are unfair within the meaning of the Unfair Terms in Consumer 
Contracts Regulations 1999.   
For the reasons I have explained, however, I believe the timeshare contract is governed by 
the laws of Mexico. The regulatory breaches which S has alleged all arise (if at all) under 
European legislation, which member states have incorporated into national law. For obvious 
reasons, neither European law nor the national laws of member states have any application 
to contracts governed by the laws of Mexico. And I have been provided with no evidence of 
any breach of any timeshare laws or regulations which applied in Mexico at the time.
There has been no suggestion that the terms of Mr Ns credit card agreement with Halifax 
were or are inherently unfair. It is significant too, in my view, that he did not open the credit 
card account as a result of anything done or said at the time he bought the timeshare. He 
already had the credit card and used it (both before and since) to make other purchases. In 
the circumstances, I do not believe that I can safely conclude that the actions of the seller 
made unfair an agreement which Mr N already had with Halifax. This is not a case where, 
but for the timeshare agreement, there would be no credit agreement.       
Halifax and S both said that they had nothing to add in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments in response to my 
provisional decision, I do not believe there is any reason for me to change my view. In 
saying that, I stress that I have reviewed the case in full before issuing this final decision.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint and do not 
require Bank of Scotland plc to do anything more to resolve it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman