DRN-4031928
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas) under her home care policy.
What happened
Mrs S experienced a boiler break-down in December 2022 and called out British Gas to fix 
the boiler under her home care policy. British Gas informed Mrs S that it was unable to send 
anyone out immediately. Mrs S had young children in the home and needed to find an urgent 
solution as she was without heating and hot water. British Gas made an appointment for its 
engineer to attend Mrs Ss home four days later, however its engineer didnt attend. 
Mrs S was to be left without hot water and heating for eight days and, in the meantime, she 
called her own engineer. He provided a repair estimate of £700, however Mrs S decided to 
ask him to install a new boiler instead. Mrs S didnt consider that the compensation offered 
by British Gas adequately recognised the distress and inconvenience suffered due to its 
poor service. However British Gas considered that it had done as much as it could to assist 
Mrs S. It had offered £150 in compensation in recognition of its admitted service failures. 
Mrs S remained unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and thought the compensation 
was too low, so she referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld Mrs Ss 
complaint. It was his view that British Gas should pay the call-out charge Mrs S had paid to 
her engineer. He also thought it should pay what it would have cost to repair the boiler had it 
not been replaced. In this context however, he considered that the original offer of 
compensation for the service issues was fair and reasonable.
British Gas didnt agree. The matter has therefore been referred to me to make a final 
decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether British Gas service and response to Mrs Ss 
complaint were fair and reasonable. I dont consider that they were fair and reasonable in all 
respects. Ill explain why.
Mrs S provided background information. She said shed called British Gas on a Monday in 
December 2022 as her boiler had broken down. It was snowing and the temperature later 
reached -6c. British Gas informed Mrs S that it couldnt attend until Thursday that week. She 
understood the difficulties as the weather caused a lot of breakdowns so we waited. A 
British Gas representative called on Wednesday and guaranteed that an engineer would 
attend on Thursday. On Thursday, she received a text message from British Gas, and she 
tried telephoning. She was kept on hold for 2 hours and 20 minutes before she gave up. Mrs 
Ss husband had taken a day off work to assist with arrangements. 
British Gas telephoned later that day to say that its engineer couldnt attend and couldnt 
offer another appointment until January 2023. Mrs S said shed explained that her daughter 
was ill and that the family was freezing cold. Mrs S only had electric heaters and an 
immersion heater. Mrs S also explained that the family was using hot water bottles at night 
to try to keep warm. Mrs S said she was on the phone most of the day with the British Gas 
and it eventually agreed to come out the following Monday, eight days after the incident. By 
Saturday however, the family was so cold, that Mrs S decided to call out an engineer. Mrs S 
said shed lost faith in British Gas and was worried it would let the family down again. Also, 
as British Gas hadnt assessed the problem and had no idea what parts (if any) were 
needed, Mrs S felt there was no guarantee it would be able to fix the problem.
Mrs Ss engineer said that the issue was to do with the fan and quoted £700 for the repair 
and charged a £120 call-out fee. He advised that the boiler was very old and as the fan had 
only been changed in September this may not solve the problem and would not advise the 
expenditure when we had planned to get a new boiler on a British Gas monthly plan! Mrs S 
explained that the dilemma was whether to wait for British Gas, as it may not turn up, may 
not have the part and there is no way they will fit a new boiler before Christmas or shell out 
the money to gain some heat! Since the incident, Mrs S thought that British Gas had sent 
us around the houses to gain any form of compensation for not upholding the service we 
paid for! She concluded that if the fan was the problem, it would have been covered by the 
service plan and she wouldnt have had to spend on an engineer, wouldnt have used so 
much electricity and wouldnt have had to borrow money around Christmas to install a boiler. 
Mrs S said that she remained incredibly upset about this situation and how it had been 
handled. She referred to Terrible empathy and customer services.
British Gas acknowledged its service errors in cancelling an appointment and not offering 
another within a reasonable timescale. It noted that the electricity use would have been high 
when the boiler wasnt working. British Gas explained that it had cancelled the first 
appointment: due to the time of year and our engineer availability we could not attend and 
called her to reschedule till 5 January 2023. It said that it had offered to provide Mrs S with 
£60 to cover the cost of heaters, but shed refused. It didnt consider it was liable for costs of 
installation of a new boiler. It said that it had provided £150 compensation to recognise the 
overall inconvenience and stress this matter caused, and believed this to be a fair outcome.
As the boiler wasnt repaired by Mrs Ss engineer, British Gas didnt think it should have to 
pay out for this. It accepted that if Mrs S had arranged for the engineer to repair the system, 
British Gas would then have reimbursed this sum if the work was covered by the policy. It 
said: looking at the invoice, it would have been. British Gas thought it was Mrs Ss choice to 
have the boiler replaced and it posed the question why Mrs S would pay out over £2,000 for 
a new boiler, when it could have been repaired for £700, with British Gas covering the cost. 
Ill provide the reasoning for my final decision. I consider that Mrs S has fully explained the 
dilemma which she faced. British Gas had failed to keep its appointment despite promises. 
Mrs S had also been kept on the phone for an unreasonable length of time in trying to 
discuss the issue with British Gas. After stating that it couldnt provide another appointment 
until the new year, it did then eventually offer a further appointment in December 2022. I 
appreciate that it had been a busy time of year for British Gas and that it had agreed to bring 
an appointment forward from January 2023 to eight days following Mrs S reporting the 
incident. However, I consider that this timescale was still unfair and unreasonable. The 
failure to keep an appointment where young children were affected was unreasonable. In 
this context, its unsurprising that Mrs S lost confidence in British Gass ability to help within 
a reasonable timescale and before Christmas. 
I also consider that it was reasonable for Mrs S to have decided to take the matter into her 
own hands and instruct an engineer the weekend after the incident. Mrs S also candidly explained the dilemma of whether to further repair something which had already been 
repaired in September 2022. It was an old boiler which she was hoping to replace with 
British Gas the following year in any event, so she decided to buy a new one instead. I 
consider this to have been a reasonable response. I note that British Gas likewise candidly 
confirmed that it would have covered the repairs had it been given the opportunity to do so.
Ive looked at the engineers quote for repairs, as well as the call-out charge, and have no 
reason to doubt the veracity of these documents. British Gas hasnt challenged the level of 
repair costs. In summary, I consider that it was reasonable for Mrs S to have called out her 
own engineer and consider that it would be fair and reasonable for British Gas to pay the 
call-out charge of £120.
I can also understand why Mrs S declined the £60 offered by British Gas to buy a fan-heater 
as she already had a small electric heater and considered them expensive to run. I also note 
that British Gas offered £150; in recognition of the issues raised. I consider however that its 
failure to attend an appointment as promised during a particularly cold period of weather was 
unreasonable. Its statement that it wouldnt be able to visit until January 2023 will have 
caused further distress. The fact that Mrs S and her family would have been then left without 
heating or hot water for eight days was also a serious service failure. This is particularly as 
young children were in the home. It was also unfair and unreasonable that Mrs S had to 
complain before another appointment was arranged for eight days following the boiler failure.  
I dont consider Mrs Ss logical decision to replace her boiler earlier than necessary was 
unreasonable. This was due to British Gas poor response. It confirmed that if repairs had 
been carried out, British Gas would have paid £700 as well as the call-out fee of £120 to 
resolve the issue. I note that the investigator considered that the £700 would act as a 
contribution towards a new boiler, and in this context didnt require British Gas to increase its 
offer of £150 compensation. I agree with our investigators conclusions, whist also noting 
that Mrs S may have been able to find a cheaper replacement boiler with the benefit of time 
and planning but was forced to make an urgent decision due to the service failures. She also 
had to borrow money prior to Christmas to buy a new boiler and had extra energy costs.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that the fair and reasonable overall outcome to this matter is for 
British Gas to pay the call-out fee of £120 and the repair fee which it would otherwise have 
paid of £700, together with the compensation of £150 already offered by British Gas. In 
reaching this overall figure, Im mindful of the services guidance which recognises that 
compensation at this level would have been appropriate where the impact of a businesss 
failures caused considerable distress, upset and worry. It would also have been appropriate 
where the failure caused significant inconvenience and disruption, needing extra effort to 
sort. I consider this to be the case here. Whilst the impact didnt last for many weeks, Im 
satisfied that the failures had a serious short-term impact for Mrs S and her family. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint against British Gas Insurance 
Limited and I require it to: -
- Pay Mrs S the sum of £700 towards the cost of installation of her new boiler.
- Pay £120, being the call-out charge for Mrs Ss engineer.
- Pay compensation of £150 (unless this has already been paid to Mrs S) for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by British Gas service failures.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman