DRN-3423729
The complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly declined to cover costs 
related to an expert opinion under his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
Any reference to Mr T or Aviva includes the actions of any agents or representative.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr T holds an Aviva LEI policy. And in November 2020 Mr T sought to claim on this 
policy in relation to a dispute about a vehicle purchased the previous year.
Aviva declined the claim, its solicitor (Company A) said it didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success (as required by the policy) without an expert report.
Mr T disagreed, saying there was sufficient evidence without the need for a report, 
including an admission from the seller. And he thought Aviva should cover any expert 
report costs if these were needed.
A separate complaint about this matter was previously considered by this Service 
and not upheld. It was determined by our previous Investigator that Aviva had acted 
reasonably by declining the claim at that time on the basis there were no reasonable 
prospects of success based on the available evidence  on the expert advice of 
Company A. 
Following this, Mr T obtained an expert report and provided it to Aviva. 
Aviva said at this time Company A no longer had capacity to reassess the claim and 
appointed another firm  Company B. Aviva declined to cover the cost of obtaining 
the expert report, saying it was a policy condition that claimants should provide 
information and evidence required to show reasonable prospects. And that costs and 
expenses incurred without its prior agreement werent covered.
Company B, on behalf of Aviva, confirmed the claim now had prospects of success 
and agreed to send a letter of claim to the respective garage.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
agreed the report was needed to show the claim had reasonable prospects, so it 
wasnt a legal cost under the policy. And in turn, Aviva had fairly declined to cover 
these costs. She also said the change of appointed solicitors hadnt changed 
anything in light of the significance and apparent necessity of the expert report.
Mr T disagreed, and reiterated that the expert opinion wasnt key when determining if 
his case was going to be successful and that the case did have reasonable prospects 
without it.
The Investigator looked again, she said the definition for legal costs within the policy 
was clear, including costs charged by the lawyer and authorised by Aviva, or ordered 
to pay by the court  which this report wasnt.
As Mr T disagreed, the matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
As Ive outlined above, a previous complaint regarding the advice given by Company 
A and Avivas actions regarding this claim has already been considered by this 
Service. So, while I acknowledge Mr T still believes Company As request to provide 
an expert report was unnecessary, this doesnt fall within the scope of this decision. 
This means Im going to, and can, only comment on the actions of Company B and 
Avivas actions following its reassessment of the claim, after the previous view was 
issued in August 2021.
Mr Ts policy is clear that policyholders must provide any information or evidence 
required to confirm whether the claim enjoys a reasonable prospect of success.
In the previous complaint, it was determined by this Service that obtaining this expert 
report was necessary in demonstrating reasonable prospects. So, Mr Ts decision to 
obtain this report follows this logic.
Mr T submitted his expert report to Company B. It assessed all of the evidence 
provided and agreed to write to the garage in the first instance. And Aviva said it 
wouldnt cover the cost of obtaining this report if this was needed to demonstrate the 
claim had reasonable prospects  as previously determined by this Service. So, while 
Mr T has again argued that the report was unnecessary  these simply arent points I 
can consider for the reasons Ive given above.
As our Investigator has outlined, the definition of costs and expenses within the 
policy specifies these are costs charged by the lawyer and authorised by the insurer, 
or, ordered to pay by a court or other body. The costs in this case were never 
charged by a lawyer or ordered by a court, and deemed necessary in proving 
reasonable prospects by Company A by this Service previously. 
Mr T has said that Aviva should cover the costs involved as Company A no longer 
was able to represent him. However, even if Company B disagreed with Company 
As findings here on whether the report was necessary, this wouldnt change my 
mind. I say this as I think its reasonable for Aviva to rely on the advice of its legal 
representatives, which is what it has done. And a potential difference in opinion 
doesnt persuade me that previous advice was inaccurate or wrong  particularly as 
this was unchallenged by other legal opinion at the time as Aviva had invited.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman