DRN-4196064
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs G complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of a 
claim under their home insurance policy.
Mr L and Mrs G bought their policy through an insurance intermediary, however Lloyds is the 
underwriter (the insurer) so their complaint is against Lloyds. However, the complaint 
concerns the actions of the intermediary and its contractor. Lloyds has accepted it is 
accountable for the actions of the intermediary, so any reference to Lloyds in my decision 
includes the actions of the intermediary.
Also, both Mr L and Mrs G are named policyholders on their Lloyds policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information 
about the complaint has been provided by Mr L, Ill refer mainly to Mr L from here onward.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs G had a home insurance policy unwritten by Lloyds, bought through an 
intermediary. In May 2022, they discovered an escape of water from their bathroom and 
reported this to Lloyds. In early August 2022, Mr L sent Lloyds his plumbers quote for 
repairs. He also said his plumber believed the leak was coming from the shower waste pipe. 
Lloyds referred the claim to one of its agents.
Lloyds agent visited Mr Ls home on 9 August 2022 to make an initial inspection. The agent 
told Mr L his policy didnt cover the damaged pipe, but it did cover the resulting water 
damage (for example, redecoration costs), subject to a £500 policy excess.
Lloyds instructed a contractor to carry out trace and access work to confirm the source of the 
leak. The contractors report concluded the leak was from the shower waste pipe. He 
couldnt determine the cause of leak but suspected shower seals may have worn away. 
However, Mr L discovered a second leak the same day the contractor carried out his trace 
work. He believes the contractor caused this and later complained about Lloyds handling of 
his claim.
Lloyds upheld part of Mr Ls complaint. It said, in summary:
Its agent initially quoted an incorrect policy excess for the trace and access work.
The contractors report said hed carried out a pressure test on the waste pipe, but 
this was wrong.
It took too long to send Mr L the thermal image taken by its contractor. 
Lloyds offered Mr L £200 to apologise for these failings. However, it didnt accept that its 
contractor caused the second leak or that its agent had been unprofessional. 
Mr L didnt accept these findings and brought his complaint to this service. He wants Lloyds 
to refund the costs he incurred repairing the damage to his bathroom (approximately £6,400) 
and the policy excess for the trace and access work (£100).
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. He accepted 
Lloyds explanation that its contractor ticked the wrong box on his report and hadnt carried 
out a pressure test. He found no evidence the second leak was caused by Lloyds contractor 
and was satisfied that its apology and £200 offer to reflect poor service was fair. 
Mr L disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls policy documents show hes not covered for the broken pipe. For example:
Page 7 of his policy booklet (Got a water leak?) says: If you have a leak from an 
appliance or pipe, we dont cover plumbing costs for repairing the leak itself (unless 
the pipe is frozen, or the damage was accidental and you have Buildings  
Accidental damage cover). But we do cover the repair costs for any water damage to 
your home.
His Insurance Policy Information Document (IPID) gives examples of damage that 
isnt covered by his policy, including Wear and tear or loss or damage that 
happens over a period of time. The contractor believed the shower seals were worn. 
If this is correct, I think worn shower seals might reasonably be considered wear and 
tear or damage that happens over time.
So Im satisfied that Mr Ls policy doesnt cover him for the original bathroom leak. Lloyds 
internal notes show that its agent explained this to Mr L. Emails also show that the agent told 
Mr L the cost of repairing the water damage was relatively small, so hed need to decide 
whether it was worth making a claim given the £500 policy excess. 
Mr Ls policy schedule shows he had trace and access cover, subject to a £100 policy 
excess. Lloyds contractor visited Mr Ls home to carry out this work on 30 August 2022.
I understand why Mr L might think the second leak  discovered the same day as the 
contractors visit  was caused by the contractors trace work. However, Lloyds says the 
trace work carried out by its contractor was non-obtrusive and couldnt have caused further 
damage. Its notes show the contractor poured hot water down the pipe to pinpoint the 
source of the leak. Im not an expert, but I think its unlikely that this would have caused a 
new leak; at worst, I think it would simply expose existing damage. 
More importantly, Mr L hasnt provided any evidence to show the contractors actions caused 
the second leak, such as a report by his own expert identifying the source and cause of the 
leak. Lloyds says the contractor made a mistake when he ticked a box on his report to say 
hed carried out a pressure test. However, Mr L hasnt shown how a pressure test might 
have caused the second leak. Without this sort of evidence, I cant reasonably conclude that 
Lloyds contractor caused the leak or that it should be covered by Mr Ls policy.
I also think its worth noting note that the repairs and costs claimed by Mr L are broadly 
consistent with the initial quote by his plumber. This quote was at least a month before the 
second leak happened, and repairs would have included lifting the bathroom floor to fix the 
waste pipe. Ive already explained that Mr Ls policy doesnt cover him for this, and its not 
clear to me what additional damage was caused by the second leak.
Mr L has also argued that Lloyds breached its contract with him because its contractor didnt 
cut out a section of his ceiling as part of the trace work, as Lloyds agent proposed. I dont agree. Its clear from Mr Ls emails with Lloyds that he didnt want the contractor to cut a 
larger hole in his ceiling. In any case, I dont think this would have made a difference to his 
claim. Mr Ls plumber identified the source of the leak and this was confirmed by Lloyds 
contractor. As Ive said, repairs to the waste pipe arent covered by his policy. 
Finally, Lloyds contractor carried out the trace and access work and confirmed the source of 
the leak. I dont think it would be reasonable for me to ask Lloyds to refund the policy excess 
for this work.
I know Mr L and Mrs G will be disappointed by my decision, but Im satisfied that the original 
leak isnt covered by their policy and Ive seen no evidence that Lloyds contractor caused 
the second leak. I think Lloyds response to Mr Ls complaint was fair and Im satisfied that 
its offer of £200 to apologise for its poor service is reasonable. I leave it to Mr L and Mrs G to 
decide whether they want to accept this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint because I think Lloyds offer is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2023. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman