DRN-3591122
The complaint
Mr S complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Pensionhelp Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to Pensionhelp.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ss employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ss employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr S was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to 
Pensionhelp which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered 
about his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as 
follows:
Mr S was 39 years old, single and with no dependent children. He was described as 
being in good health and at the time of the advice he had accrued over 21 years of 
pension benefits with the BSPS.
Mr S lived in a home valued at around £160,000 with a 13-year mortgage 
outstanding of around £80,000. 
Mr S earned around £45,000. After expenses he had some disposable income left 
over. Mr S had savings of £20,000 and was paying a type of car loan. He had no 
other assets or liabilities.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ss BSPS was approximately 
£318,790. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Pensionhelp set out its advice in a suitability report on 25 November 2017. In this it advised 
Mr S to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. 
Pensionhelp said this would allow Mr S to achieve his objectives. Mr S accepted this advice 
and so transferred out. In 2021 Mr S complained to Pensionhelp about its advice, saying he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, Pensionhelp said it hadnt done anything wrong 
and was acting on the financial objectives Mr S had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Pensionhelp's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Pensionhelp should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ss best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from Pensionhelp (30 November 2021) and the representations from its legal 
adviser (27 June 2022). Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses made to 
the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Financial viability 
Pensionhelp referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. In this case, Pensionhelp used the existing scheme (BSPS) for 
the critical yield comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. 
Pensionhelp now says that using critical yields isnt fair or relevant mainly because Mr S 
wasnt wanting to buy an annuity. However, I disagree with this. The critical yield comparison 
was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising clients on DB transfers. Its 
also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is only one of a number of 
different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in my view, these all point 
one way  that Mr S was probably going to receive lower pension benefits overall, as a result 
of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
However, before assessing the critical yields in Mr Ss case, I think its important to point out 
that Pensionhelp could have taken time to compare the benefits of the BSPS2 with 
transferring out, rather than just using the current BSPS for comparisons. We know BSPS 
was being stopped. Also, many weeks before this advice, which was dated 25 November 
2017, BSPS members had been told that if the RAA was approved, they would have a 
choice  to move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or into the PPF with the old scheme. A 
newsletter had also been put on a microsite that had been set up to support BSPS members 
and more details of the BSPS2 had emerged by the time Pensionhelp produced its suitability 
report. 
Its true the situation was dynamic in that some changes were being proposed at that very 
point, but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar 
complaints to this one. And as the existing scheme (BSPS) was clearly no longer an option, 
using the existing scheme rather than the new one, to make comparisons with, wasnt giving 
Mr S the best opportunity to make an informed decision about what to do. I think its also fair 
to say that despite some uncertainty at the time, the BSPS2 critical yields were likely to be 
between the BSPS and PPF yields, but most likely much closer to the existing scheme 
(BSPS). In my view, all this shows the advice probably wasnt quite as comprehensive as it 
ought to have been.
Having said all that, Pensionhelp said that the critical yield required to match the benefits at 
the age of 65 in the BSPS, was 6.19% if Mr S took a pension without a tax-free lump sum. If 
taking a tax-free lump sum, the critical yield was 6.73%. However, Pensionhelp also 
calculated the critical yield rates for an earlier retirement, at the age of 60. It did this because 
Mr S had apparently expressed a desire to retire early.
However, as Ill explain more about later, retirement was still a very long way off for Mr S and 
so I very much doubt whether retiring at 60 was anything more than something he just 
aspired to, rather than being part of a real plan. For the age of 60, the critical yields came out 
at 5.98% (no tax-free cash) and 4.94% (with tax free cash) respectively. 
However, I think Mr S would have found some key aspects of the suitability report confusing. 
For example, on page 3 of the report, the adviser said this about achieving the critical yield,
We have carried out a comparison of your potential scheme benefits and a 
transfer to a personal pension. We do [my emphasis] believe that the critical 
yields required to match the scheme benefits are achievable based on your 
attitude to risk.However, on page 10 it says,
The critical yield required to replicate the scheme benefits at age 60 is not [my 
emphasis] achievable based on your attitude to risk (assumed long term 
investment return of 5.90% per annum).
I think all this needed a careful explanation, but I dont believe it was made clear enough 
what Pensionhelp was actually saying. Pensionhelp was saying that retiring at 60 might 
meet the critical yield but only if Mr S took a tax-free lump sum, something hed expressly 
said he might not do upon accessing his benefits. But I dont think there was any real doubt 
at the time that achieving enough growth outside the DB scheme, to make transferring 
financially viable, was going to be unlikely. Using the age of 60 wasnt strictly giving Mr S the 
full picture here or enough information about the various critical yield rates to allow him to 
make an informed decision; hed only said he may retire at 60. And Pensionhelp 
unilaterally assuming a growth rate of 5.9% (as shown above) was also, in my view, an 
exaggeration. I say this with the following in mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was only 4.6% per year for 25 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below all of the 
critical yield figures Ive referred to above. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower 
projection rate was 2%. So, Pensionhelp assuming growth of 5.9% over such a long period 
in the future probably wasnt credible.
At the time, Pensionhelp assessed Mr Ss attitude to risk (ATR) as balanced (or level 6 out 
of 10). But everything Ive seen shows Mr S had no experience of these types of money 
market investments. Although he filled out an ATR questionnaire, Mr S didnt have any 
relevant investment experience to call upon and despite having around £20,000 in savings, 
theres no evidence this was invested in anything other than a deposit type bank account. 
This was confirmed in the knowledge and experience assessment by Pensionhelp which 
recorded that this would be my first investment  I have no previous knowledge or 
experience of investments. Ive considered that Mr S had joined the new TATA Steel 
defined contribution (DC) scheme moving forward. But theres no indication he was invested 
in anything other than the off the shelf investment strategy and he likely had no direct 
responsibility for making investment decisions. In short, I think categorising his ATR as 6/10 
only pushed him into investment strategies that he most likely wasnt comfortable with.
Ive seen that Pensionhelp also said he had a high capacity for loss (CFL). But I think this 
was also a mis-categorisation. Mr S lived in a modest home, had a mortgage with several 
years left to run and he also had a vehicle purchase contract. Saying he had a high capacity 
for loss implied he could accept significant investment losses. Generally, the higher his 
capacity for loss, the more risk hed be able to take, but that doesn't necessarily mean that 
he should have been advised to take that level of risk. Our investigator explained these mis-
categorisations in some detail and I agree with what he said. Ultimately I think the adviser pushed Mr Ss ATR and CFL categories into areas that were 
too high. This was all a part of what Id say was advice that fell short of what Mr S had the 
right to expect; although this didnt really change anything anyway.
Thats because Pensionhelp seemed to accept that higher levels of growth most likely 
wouldnt be achievable. By definition, it was admitting that 6.19% couldnt be achieved - it 
effectively told Mr S this. However, to be clear, the regulators growth assumptions were at 
very best 5% for a mid rate return. But as Ive set out above, I do think the growth 
assumptions should have been more appropriately measured against the low regulators 
rate of nearer 2%. So, I think a growth assumption at the lower end of the regulators 
projections and also close to the discount rate was most relevant here. This was around 2-
to-4 % and substantially below the critical yield figures for the BSPS, so I think this too 
showed that achieving the critical yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out was unlikely. 
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, Pensionhelps own transfer analysis said that in 
order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits 
provided by the existing scheme the estimated fund required (also known as the capital 
value) was £1,073,434. Even to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the 
estimated benefits provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no 
increases in payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was 
£536,221. 
To reiterate, these figures are found in Pensionhelps own analysis based on data the 
regulator required businesses to refer to at the time. And because these figures are far 
above Mr Ss CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the 
guaranteed pension Mr S could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan, rather 
than a similar DB scheme that was on offer here.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, Pensionhelp also made mention of the PPF, which it 
described as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when 
the sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. Pensionhelp said the critical yields to match 
the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the 
reduced benefits available with the PPF and Pensionhelp itself says Mr S wouldnt have 
wanted to transfer to this scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect of 
charges and fees associated with a personal pension such as the one being recommended 
to Mr S, would have further reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Pensionhelps 
own figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr S would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS. But as Ive said, Pensionhelp 
should have waited and recalculated the comparisons for Mr S when the situation with 
BSPS2 became clearer. 
Ive also considered some projections Pensionhelp used to help show that if he transferred 
out to a personal plan, the funds could last Mr S well into retirement. Again, I think most of 
these were based on growth projections which were unrealistic given his actual ATR. Its 
also fair to say these were certainly not comparing like-with-like. What Pensionhelp was 
showing Mr S were comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a 
DB scheme. They relied on investment risk which I think was too high, factored in over many 
years.
Of course, according to Pensionhelp, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme alone. Rather, Pensionhelp said Mr S also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was 
suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
As Ive said, the suitability report noted that the critical yield required to replicate the scheme 
benefits is not achievable based on your attitude to risk. In my view, what this means is that 
the Pensionhelp adviser was acknowledging from the outset that transferring away from a 
DB scheme for financial viability reasons probably wasnt worthwhile. So, knowing the 
transfer simply didnt add up from a financial perspective, I think that this ought to have 
meant that any transfer recommendation which did follow, really ought to have been based 
on quite powerful other reasons. Ive therefore looked carefully at what these reasons were.
Pensionhelp recommended a transfer to a personal pension plan based on what it said were 
Mr Ss wider objectives. I have used all the documents we still have from the advice 
sessions to summarise the following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer 
away:
Pensionhelp implied that Mr S wanted to retire at the age of 60. It said that by 
transferring away from a DB scheme and into a personal one Mr S could have a 
greater degree of control over the way in which his benefits were paid.
Pensionhelp said hed be able to select the timing and type of benefits taken at 
retirement and vary his income to suit his tax situation. It said this would be 
particularly useful in that he had another pension and so he could reduce the amount 
hed need to draw from that if he transferred his DB funds.
Pensionhelp said he could more flexibly pass on the benefits from a personal plan, 
potentially tax-free, if he died.
I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Retiring early
Ive taken into account that Mr S approached Pensionhelp for advice because of the 
uncertainties he faced with the BSPS. He clearly didnt want to enter the PPF. 
But as Ive mentioned above, Mr S was still only 39 years old and in good health. In this 
context, I think Pensionhelps adviser saying Mr S had specific uses for his retirement funds 
lacked credibility. 
In my view, the adviser portrayed the DB scheme opportunity Mr S had with the proposed 
BSPS2 in a negative dimension. I say this because references were made to a DB scheme 
paying an increasing and fixed amount at retirement, rather than a more flexible 
arrangement which he could find with a personal pension plan. The implication here was that 
transferring to the BSPS2 was somehow too restrictive for Mr S and unsuitable for him.
But I think its important to focus for a moment here on Mr Ss comparatively young age by 
pension standards. The evidence Ive seen here is that Mr S  understandably - had no 
concrete plans whatsoever for his retirement. As Ive said, he only referred to the possibility 
of retiring at 60. With 20  25 years still left to when hed be actually contemplating retiring, 
theres simply no way that what he might possibly use the money for, should have been a 
major influence in him deciding to irreversibly move away from a DB scheme. Doing so involved an investment risk which Pensionhelp had already acknowledged could mean lower 
overall financial benefits at retirement. 
So whilst Im sure, like most people, Mr S probably wanted to stop working as early as 
possible, I think what he told the adviser could only ever have been general retirement 
aspirations on his part. In reality, there was no plan to retire early. It was simply far too early 
to speculate about this.
Flexibility and control
In a similar vein, Pensionhelp also said hed be able to select the timing and type of benefits 
taken at retirement and also vary his retirement income. 
However, I cant see that Mr S required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser 
suggested. In any event, flexibility was poorly defined by Pensionhelp. I therefore think this 
was no more than a stock objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out 
to a personal plan. For example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr S required changing how 
his retirement benefits ought to be paid. He already had a new and more flexible DC pension 
with his existing job as a consequence of the old BSPS scheme being closed to new 
contributions. This DC pension was being significantly contributed towards by both Mr S and 
his employer - 6% and 10% respectively. It had already reached around £5,000 in value and 
still had up to 25 years left to run (20 years if he did eventually retire early). So, this 
secondary pension would have afforded Mr S any flexibility he might have needed in the 
years ahead.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr S wouldnt want to continue membership of 
a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr S could have been in a very 
agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of considerable 
value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring 
which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation 
guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On 
the other hand, hed have also built up a substantial DC scheme over a long period of time  
up to 25 years. So, if Mr S ever found he needed so-called flexibility, then hed be able to 
use the latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Pensionhelp even advised in the suitability report that by transferring away from a DB 
scheme, hed be able to flexibly access those benefits. This would then allow him to not dip 
into his Tata Steel DC pension when that became payable. In my view, this makes no sense 
at all and it merely demonstrates the shortcomings of the advice.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr S had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr S was being offered the opportunity to transfer to 
the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. 
Mr S himself had no experience of these types of money market investments and I think he 
would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over £318,000 of 
transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr S 
would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him 
money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
Pensionhelp itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. In my view, this 
showed a reasonable income when assessed against what Mr S had speculated that he 
might need in retirement. Of course, Ive already explained the unpredictability of assessing retirement needs so far in advance and at such a young age. However, Mr S speculated that 
he might have needed around £20,000 per year in todays money.
Pensionhelps analysis said that if retiring at 65, Mr S could expect an annual pension of 
around £23,462. Even if I were to only use the estimated pension calculated for the earlier 
retirement, at aged 60, this was still £14,515 per year. And it certainly isnt unreasonable to 
say that by then, Mr S could have built up a DC fund well in excess of £200,000. So, I dont 
think theres anything showing Mr Ss pension entitlements wouldnt have easily met his 
anticipated requirements, without any need to transfer from a DB scheme.
These were BSPS figures, but that doesnt really matter because current members were 
being given similar estimates about the new scheme (BSPS2) at around the very time this 
advice was being sought. I dont think Pensionhelp adequately explained these things to Mr 
S as its advice simply discounted him transferring to the new scheme to obtain flexibility 
which was poorly defined and which he didnt need.
I therefore think Mr Ss circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to 
him still being able to retire earlier than 65 if he felt he really needed to  there would have 
been an actuarial reduction involved, depending on his age at the time. But because he also 
had a smaller second DC pension, this supported that strategy in my view. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mr S died. Mr S wasnt married and didnt have children 
and so the adviser told Mr S that hed be able to pass on the value of a personal pension, 
potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated.
I think there was clearly a discussion about this because Mr S said he could think of a close 
family member to whom he could leave such a lump-sum. So, the lump sum death benefits 
on offer through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to 
Mr S. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr S might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Pensionhelp explored 
to what extent Mr S was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for 
different death benefits.
Mr S was only 39 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr S had lived a 
long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 60 was at least mentioned  Pensionhelps defence of 
this complaint is effectively predicated on this. The adviser should have therefore additionally 
known that a healthy male retiring at 60 would likely have many years ahead in which he 
would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to pass on to someone.
I also cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. 
But at 39 years old, a modest term life insurance policy may have still been a reasonably affordable product if Mr S really did want to leave a legacy for a specific relative or someone 
else. But more so, it doesnt appear that Pensionhelp took into account the fact that Mr S 
could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other (TATA) DC scheme. 
So, to this end, Mr S already had plenty of options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die 
with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Ss situation. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr S, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
Pensionhelp said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and Pensionhelp said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr S was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Pensionhelps obligation to give Mr S an objective picture and recommend what was in 
his best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Pensionhelp 
should have reassured Mr S that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr S through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to Pensionhelps recommendation to Mr S to transfer out of the 
DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments 
Pensionhelp recommended that Mr S invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mr S and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear 
advice had been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the 
DB scheme and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice 
had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr S was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think Pensionhelp ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in 
retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ss best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr S still had 
many more years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr S would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think Pensionhelp should have advised Mr S to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr S would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Pensionhelp disclosed some of 
the risks of transferring to Mr S, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr S to transfer out, and I think Mr S relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr S would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Pensionhelps advice. I say this because Mr S was an inexperienced investor and 
this pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Pensionhelp 
had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining 
why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ss concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if Pensionhelp had explained Mr S was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think Pensionhelp should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Pensionhelps unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension 
if he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. Pensionhelp 
should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
Pensionhelp must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. Pensionhelp should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr S and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ss 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Pensionhelp should:
calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr S accepts Pensionhelps offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr S for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ss end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Pensionhelp may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Ss likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct 
Pensionhelp Limited to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Pensionhelp Limited pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Pensionhelp 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman