DRN-2595025
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy with the actions taken by Barclays Bank UK PLC as the receiving bank, 
when she sent money to one of its customers as the result of a scam.
Ms G brings her complaint through a representative, who Ill refer to as M, but for ease of 
reading Ill mostly refer to Ms G.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary of key events here. 
In December 2018, Ms G was unfortunately the victim of an email interception scam. She 
was in the process of purchasing a property and received, as expected, an email from her 
solicitor  L requesting a deposit payment of €24,842.50. The email set out the account 
details for where the funds should be paid. 
Ms G visited her local branch. She sent the payment from her account with her own bank A 
to the details provided in the email. Ms G was unaware at the time Ls email had been 
intercepted and the account details changed. The funds credited an unknown third-party 
account, rather than Ls account as shed intended. The receiving bank account was with 
Barclays. 
As soon as Ms G became aware of this, she informed A and M  both of whom contacted
Barclays in an attempt to recover the funds from the beneficiary account. But by the time
this happened, a large portion of Ms Gs funds had already been transferred out of the 
beneficiary account. Barclays were able to recover some of Ms Gs funds and later returned 
€1,462.99. 
This still left Ms G with a considerable loss, so she complained. She was unhappy for a 
variety of reasons, these include but arent limited to;
 
- Barclays delay in acting on notification sent by A and returning her funds; 
- inaccuracies in information provided by Barclays to M; 
- being misinformed by Barclays it was unable to locate the account which caused her 
confusion and stress; 
- lack of communication from Barclays necessitating Ms G, M and A to continually chase;
- Barclays failure to comprehend the significance of a fraudulent payment being reported 
to it; and  
- Barclays unsatisfactory responses, lack of communication and/or co-operation with A.
Ms G wants Barclays to refund the outstanding sum of €23,389.51, reimburse the additional 
legal costs she has incurred trying to recover her funds and pay compensation as the 
incident has caused her considerable upset, stress and anxiety, which she believes has 
been drawn out and added to by the poor handling of the matter by Barclays. 
Barclays didnt agree to refund the outstanding loss as the funds Ms G had paid into their 
customers account had been utilised by the account holder prior to As notification of alleged 
fraud. It maintained it had correctly returned what could be recovered. However, it 
acknowledged and apologised for providing incorrect information to M and for the confusion 
and stress its update message in response to As recall request caused. Barclays offered to 
pay Ms G £300 compensation. 
Ms G considered that she should receive considerably more than £300, given Barclays lack 
of co-operation in assisting in the recovery of her funds. She doesnt believe the amount 
offered takes into account the time and effort she spent trying to get to the bottom of what 
had happened or the emotional distress and anxiety that she experienced. 
Unhappy with Barclays response she brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into things. He concluded that this service had no power to look into 
Ms Gs complaint as she wasnt an eligible complainant under our rules.
Ms G disagreed with the investigators outcome. Whilst she accepts that she isnt an eligible 
complainant under DISP 2.7.6R (2B) she didnt agree that this precluded her from being 
considered an eligible complainant through another relationship listed under DISP. She says 
her complaint is about Barclays failure to co-operate with A in its efforts to recover her funds. 
She says Barclays didnt respond in an adequate and timely manner to notification provided 
by A. She believes this likely resulted in her incurring a greater financial loss. In these 
circumstances as she was the payer in a misdirected payment transaction with Barclays 
being the payees payment service provider, she submitted that this service does have 
jurisdiction to look into this aspect of her complaint under DISP 2.7.6R(2A) which says; 
 .. the complaint is (or was) a payer in a payment transaction in relation to which the 
respondent is (or was) the payees payment service provider, provided the complaint relates 
to the respondents obligations under regulation 90(3) of the Payment Services Regulations   
As Ms G didnt agree the complaint was passed to me to decide on the jurisdiction of this 
case. 
Having reviewed Ms G and Barclays submissions I reached a different outcome to our 
investigator about this services jurisdiction. Whilst I agreed, and Ms G has accepted the 
investigators outcome, in so far as Ms G isnt an eligible complainant under 
DISP 2.7.6R (2B) as the acts and/or omissions being complained of occurred before this 
relationship came into effect on 31 January 2019. I do agree with Ms G that she is an eligible 
complainant under DISP 2.7.6R (2A) and we can consider some aspects of her complaint 
under this relationship. 
I explained to both Ms G and Barclays this relationship however, only allows us to consider 
whether or not Barclays complied with its obligations under regulation 90(3) of the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017. This limits what we can consider to just whether 
Barclays co-operated with A in its efforts to recover Ms Gs funds. And it would not include, 
and we could not comment on Ms G or Ms direct interactions with Barclays to try and 
recover the funds. Both Ms G and Barclays accepted this so the complaint was passed back 
to the investigator to look into the limited aspect of Ms Gs complaint that this service is able 
to consider. 
In short, our investigator said for what we can consider, he didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. He concluded Barclays had fulfilled their obligations under regulation 90(3) of the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 and the £300 compensation offered for the poor 
customer service was sufficient. Ms G was dissatisfied with the investigators response and maintained Barclays failed to 
effectively communicate and/or co-operate with A, which added considerably to her stress 
and caused upset at what was already a difficult time. It failed to act immediately on the 
information provided (whether or not this resulted in any further financial loss) and failed to 
comprehend the significance of a fraudulent payment being reported to it. She was also 
unhappy that she was not afforded any opportunity to review and comment on Barclays 
submission to this service and the evidence relied on by the investigator in reaching his 
outcome. Ms G asked for an ombudsman to review the case. 
The complaint was passed back to me for a decision. With Barclays agreement, I shared 
with Ms G redacted copies of the evidence it had submitted  which has been relied on. 
I explained I could not make an award for trouble and upset, nor could I ask Barclays to 
refund any legal costs that resulted from any of Barclays acts or omissions whilst responding 
to enquires made directly by Ms G and/or M. This aspect of Ms Gs complaint fell outside my 
jurisdiction. I also explained we are a free alternative dispute resolution service and legal 
representation isnt needed to bring a complaint to our service, so we do not generally make 
costs awards for circumstances where a complainant has chosen to do so. 
With that being said, I agreed to approaching Barclays with a view to seeing whether it would 
be prepared to increase its compensatory offer of £300 as a gesture of goodwill on account 
of the upset and inconvenience Ms G has said it caused. 
Barclays responded to say whilst it empathises with Ms G, it deems the amount of 
compensation offered to be appropriate for the service issues that occurred at Barclays, it 
wouldnt look to offer any more.
Now everyone has had an opportunity to review the evidence and comment, I can go ahead 
with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have evidenced that Ms Gs payment for €24,842.50 was credited to the 
beneficiary account on 20 December 2018 and the majority of those funds with the exception 
of €1,462.99 that was later returned to Ms G were utilised before it received notification of 
fraud from A on 3 January 2019. Based on this, I dont think Ms Gs ability to recover the 
money she lost as a result of the scam was negatively impacted by any acts or omissions by 
Barclays. The majority of funds had already been removed before Barclays received 
notification of fraud from A and the amount that was recoverable on the day of notification 
has been returned to Ms G.  
Ms G has also provided a detailed explanation in support of the emotional distress, upset 
and anxiety that she experienced due to the lack of communication and/or co-operation 
between both banks - specifically on the part of Barclays. She remains unhappy A needed to 
continually chase Barclays in respect of matters. I sympathise with Ms Gs situation and do 
understand from her perspective why she thinks Barclays actions didnt demonstrate any 
sense of urgency to recover and return her funds. However, the notification of fraud which 
Barclays received from A gave rise to the necessity to check the beneficiarys entitlement to 
the disputed funds  the responsibility of investigating and validating Ms Gs allegation 
passed to Barclays at this point.Some investigations are more straightforward than others and easier to conclude. And 
simply because Barclays didnt immediately notify A of the amount remaining and/or return 
the funds doesnt mean it failed to co-operate with A in its efforts to recover Ms Gs funds. 
Barclays needed to ensure it had satisfied its own legal and regulatory obligations before 
concluding its investigation and making a decision on how to treat any funds remaining 
and/or whether these should be returned. 
I can see Barclays took action in relation to As notification on 4 January 2019. It then on 
7 January 2019 (next working day) put A on notice that it would need to conduct an 
investigation. Enquiry timescales are dependent on a number of things and there is no 
requirement for Barclays to return funds until it has concluded its outcome. Barclays 
completed its investigation and returned the funds to A on 29 January 2019. Im satisfied it 
did so within a reasonable time. I also note in the interim when A did request an update, 
Barclays responded in a timely manner keeping A informed on its progress. 
I realise Ms G wasnt satisfied with the response given by Barclays. Barclays have in their 
final response explained this was a standard update message that it uses in fund recall 
situations. It apologised for and acknowledged the confusion which it likely caused. It made 
a compensatory offer of £300 for both this and incorrect information it had provided M. 
Overall, I think that this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Ms Gs 
complaint. I understand that Ms G has declined the £300 compensation offer. But if she 
would like to accept that offer, she should contact Barclays directly.
Im sorry to hear that Ms G has fallen victim to a cruel scam and lost such a significant 
amount of money. I do recognise the impact this has had on her and her family. Ultimately, 
however, it was the scammer that tricked Ms G. I dont think there are failings by Barclays 
that would have led to more of Ms Gs money being recovered once it had been notified by A 
of the scam. And overall, Im satisfied Barclays have co-operated with A in its efforts to 
recover Ms Gs misdirected funds  complying with its obligations under regulation 90(3) of 
the Payment Service Regulations 2017. As such, Im not upholding this complaint or making 
an award.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman