DRN-3858829
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as K, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
misled it about the need to move its banking and then communicated poorly when problems 
arose after the switch. 
K is represented by its sole director, Mr H. 
What happened
K operated a business current account with RBS with an overdraft facility. RBS invited K to 
participate in its switching scheme, offering an incentive payment if K successfully moved its 
account to another bank. 
In October 2020, K applied to switch and completed an application form for another bank 
(which Ill refer to as the new bank) and applied for an overdraft there. The new bank asked 
for more information in order to consider this request. 
The deadline to complete the switch was June 2021. In May 2021, the new bank didnt 
consider it had enough information to make a decision about Ks overdraft. So it asked Mr H 
if K wanted to proceed with the switch and complete the overdraft application later. Mr K 
agreed. 
By 29 June 2021, Ks account at the new bank was open and all direct debits had 
transferred to it. But the new bank informed Mr H that Ks overdraft application had been 
declined. 
Mr H contacted RBS and told them the business had been left with no working capital to 
cover payments going out of the new bank and no means of repaying the overdraft at RBS. 
He carried on asking the bank for help and making complaints over the following weeks. In 
July 2021, RBS told Mr H they could reverse the switch, but this never happened.
In August 2021, Mr H referred Ks complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He said RBS had 
misled him into believing that K had to move banks and had left his business in an 
impossible position. He told us he was desperate for help, but RBS werent providing any 
help at all. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She didnt think RBS were 
responsible for Mr H thinking the switch was mandatory, nor for K not obtaining an overdraft 
facility at the new bank. But she did think RBS had caused K inconvenience when theyd 
wrongly said they could reverse the switch. She recommended RBS pay £150 in recognition 
of this. 
The bank agreed to pay the proposed compensation. Mr H disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at things again. He made the following points:
He accepted that no-one had told him he had to switch. But hed made numerous 
attempts to contact RBS and no-one had been available to assist him. 
The main complaint was RBS poor communication. 
RBS had never told him he could open a new account or given him any help as to 
what to do about his overdraft. 
The bank had said hed used online banking since March 2022. This was incorrect. 
He hadnt used it because hed never been told it was working. 
Whilst this complaint had been going on, RBS had been adding extortionate 
charges to his overdraft and nothing had been done about these. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I am aware that the events that began with the switch are still ongoing and continue to 
have serious consequences for K. In this decision, I will only be able to consider the 
complaint Mr H referred to us in August 2021 and not what has happened since then, which 
Im aware has led to a number of subsequent complaints.
I think Mr H now accepts that RBS didnt tell him at any point that it was mandatory to switch, 
although he may have misinterpreted this at the time. I wont repeat our investigators 
conclusions in this regard. Suffice it to say that I agree that RBS letters werent misleading 
on this point. Neither have I seen any evidence of misleading phone calls at this time. 
Unfortunately, I think the central problem here is Mr Hs decision to go ahead with the switch, 
knowing that the new bank had yet to decide whether they would give K an overdraft or not. 
RBS werent to blame for this and I think most of the problems since flowed from this 
decision. 
That said, I do agree that RBSs service and communications have been very poor in terms 
of sorting things out after the switch. Its clear that Mr H has made many requests for help 
and has not been given any. This started on 1 July 2021 when he was told they could just 
reverse the switch, giving him false hope that things could be sorted out simply and quickly. 
As our investigator set out, for several months after this, various RBS representatives said 
contradictory things and failed to resolve Ks problems. It wasnt until October 2021 that RBS 
told Mr H it couldnt reverse the switch and even then, there was still confusion about what 
he should do next. 
There has also been some confusion over online banking. RBS has assured our service that 
this is working. They have also provided evidence of a transfer into the account, which 
appears to have been made by mobile banking in March 2022. As this is a transfer in, Im 
not persuaded this means Mr H could view or make payments out of this account. However, 
I think this complaint point has largely been superseded by events as my understanding is 
that Ks account is currently in Recoveries, so the bank wont be permitting any payments 
out in any case. Mr H has also mentioned overdraft charges being added to his account, although he has 
also said he has no evidence of this since he has no access to the account. The bank has 
sent me a bank statement for Ks account from January 2022 to January 2023. This doesnt 
show any charges except for a £150 arrangement fee, which I can see has been refunded. It 
also shows the refund of £357.81 of interest. So I can reassure Mr H that the bank hasnt 
added any charges over that period. I dont know what happened before between the switch 
in June 2021 and January 2022 but based on what Ive seen, I have found no evidence of 
unfair charging. I suggest Mr H asks the bank for statements for the whole period if he is 
having trouble reconciling the balance.  
I appreciate this outcome isnt satisfactory for Mr H. He still needs help. I can only suggest 
that he persists in communicating with RBS regarding either repaying or reinstating Ks 
overdraft facility. 
Putting things right
Although I dont think RBS are responsible for K ending up with a bank account at one bank 
and an overdraft at the other, I am satisfied that RBS have caused K some inconvenience as 
a result of their poor customer service. I am therefore upholding the complaint about poor 
communication. I agree with our investigator £150 is fair to compensate for the 
inconvenience caused.
In the interests of avoiding confusion, I am aware that in July 2022, the bank offered to pay K 
£250 in recognition of different communication errors, in respect of Mr Hs request to 
reinstate Ks overdraft. This was in response to another complaint and is entirely separate 
from the communication errors discussed here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to pay K £150 as compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman