DRN-2705146
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the amount shes been paying for her home insurance policy. The 
insurance policy is with Hiscox Underwriting Limited.
What happened
Mrs C said shed purchased her home insurance from Hiscox for many years. Over the last 
five or so years the premium had increased from just under £900 to over £2300 for the 
current year. Mrs C said the last three years had seen increases of over £500 despite not 
making any claims. 
Mrs C said nothing had changed in her circumstances. She didnt live in a high-risk area or 
somewhere that suffered from a risk of flooding. Mrs C said Hiscox hadnt explained properly 
why the premium has increased so much. It just said itd charged her incorrectly in the past 
and the price had gone up in line with normal rate increases. Mrs C wants to stay with 
Hiscox. But having looked elsewhere she thinks she can get the same cover a lot cheaper. 
So she wants a full and clear explanation for the premium increases in the last few years.
Hiscox said itd spoken with the underwriters about the premium increases. Although Mrs C 
had unlimited cover it hadnt recorded the correct property values in the past. So the policy 
had been underfunded. The underwriters had done a new valuation in 2018 and 2019 and 
had amended the premium so it was correctly covering the property.
Hiscox said products, appetite for risk and rates are reviewed regularly. And that affected the 
premium paid by customers. But it didnt change the rates all in one go. Instead it did so 
steadily over the years to reflect customer loyalty to Hiscox. And it felt the premium charged 
for 2020 was correct.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with Hiscoxs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He asked Hiscox to explain the price increases. After 
considering all of the information Mrs C and Hiscox had provided he felt Hiscox had shown it 
wouldve priced the policy the same way for any customer in similar circumstances. So it 
hadnt taken advantage of Mrs Cs loyalty. And he couldnt uphold her complaint. 
Mrs C didnt agree. Shed had full conversations with Hiscox every year trying to understand 
why the price kept going up. But itd never given her a proper explanation. So shes asked 
for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs C feels frustrated by the lack of explanation. She feels Hiscox hasnt 
treated her fairly when setting the price for her insurance premiums  especially in the last 
few years. 
Its important to realise our service cant tell an insurer how it should price risk or what an 
insurance policy should cost. Its not our role to tell a business how to operate. But I can 
consider how Hiscox has treated Mrs C with regards to her insurance and whether she was 
treated fairly when it was priced.
Mrs C first purchased her home insurance from Hiscox in 2012 and the cover was altered in 
2016 when Mrs C moved home. The following year Mrs C paid nearly £900 for her insurance 
premium. This increased to over £2100 in 2020  a substantial rise. So I need to consider if 
Hiscox has acted fairly in the way its priced Mrs Cs policy.
When a customer hasnt engaged with their renewal documents for a few years we describe 
such customers as inert. We think the business should notice this and we wouldnt expect it 
to increase its price just because of the customers inactivity. 
But in this case Mrs C said shed contacted Hiscox each year to ask what the increases 
were for. Mrs C said she never felt she was given a proper explanation. So Ive looked at the 
information provided by Hiscox for each price increase. 
After Mrs C moved home Hiscox carried out a manual review and increased the premium. It 
felt the current level wasnt correct and it was concerned the value of Mrs Cs policy didnt 
cover the cost of rebuilding her home. So Hiscox increased the premium from just under 
£900 to over £1500 to make sure the premiums properly reflected the cover required. 
The premium increased by over £500 in 2019 when Hiscox introduced a new system to 
calculate risks and premiums. I can see Mrs C got in touch with Hiscox and it carried out 
another valuation of her property to make sure its information was accurate. As a result it 
was able to reduce the increase by around a half. 
I can see why Mrs C felt the explanations couldve been clearer. It seems Hiscox may have 
underestimated the rebuild cost at first. And Mrs C had benefitted from lower premiums as a 
result. When Hiscox improved its valuation processes it was able to determine a more 
accurate risk  and work out a more accurate premium to charge. But unfortunately this 
meant Mrs C had to pay a more higher amount.
The premium for 2020 increased by about £350. Hiscox has explained the rise was because 
of a number of different factors including claims inflation and a price correction. Hiscox 
wanted to make sure the premium it received reflected the risk it faced by offering the home 
insurance policy to Mrs C. 
I understand Hiscox also looked at an alternate policy it offered to other customers. But it 
would be a higher net worth product and more expensive. So Mrs C wouldnt have been 
offered a lower price if she came to Hiscox as a new customer.
Mrs C says she might be able to find cover elsewhere for a lower price. But thats often 
because new customer policies come with a new customer discount to attract their business. 
The opening price is then increased over the next few years to recover the discount. 
Based on everything Ive seen I cant say Hiscox has treated Mrs C unfairly or taken 
advantage of her loyalty as a long-standing customer. Its not unusual for the cost of 
insurance to go up. And the insurer has explained why the premiums have increased 
following a re-appraisal of the risk it faced when insuring Mrs Cs property.
I know Mrs C will be disappointed by this outcome. Shes been a very loyal customer for 
many years. And she felt frustrated by Hiscoxs inability to properly explain the price 
increases in recent years. I hope, along with our investigator, that Ive been able to clarify why there was a large 
increase in 2018-2019 following the revaluation by Hiscox. Unfortunately some of the 
information provided by Hiscox is business sensitive and Im not able to fully share it. But it 
seems Hiscox had, in effect, undercharged Mrs C for the risk it was exposed to. And it 
needed to increase current premiums to more accurately reflect its position. I cant say that 
was unreasonable or unfair. Hiscox needed to charge a fair price for the risk it faced.
I do agree with Mrs C that Hiscox couldve explained the price increases more clearly. Had it 
done so, the matter may not have been unresolved for as long as it has been. But that 
doesnt mean I can ask it to refund any of the premiums, because I dont think they were 
charged unfairly.
Overall I think Hiscox has treated Mrs C fairly when setting the renewal price for her policy 
each year. And I cant ask it to provide any further information about the reasons it has 
increased her renewal premium in recent years. So Im afraid I cant uphold her complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman