DRN-2145827
The complaint
Mr O complains Lloyds Bank PLC made unfair changes to his Trustcard account reward 
scheme and didnt give him reasonable notice. 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr O received a letter from Lloyds to say it was changing his credit cards 
reward points scheme to a cashback scheme. 
The letter stated any points earned prior to September 2015 would expire in December 
2019, and any remaining points would need to be redeemed before January 2020. Mr O said 
this was unfair because hed saved up reward points over time and intended to use the 
points for a future furniture purchase.
Lloyds accepted it shouldve given Mr O more notice about the changes. So it offered to pay 
him £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. It also increased Mr Os 
cashback amount on retail purchases to 12% for three months. 
Mr O remained unhappy with this and brought a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into his complaint. She agreed Lloyds acted unfairly by 
failing to give Mr O adequate notice about the changes. She considered the offer Lloyds 
made, however, and felt this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr O disagreed. He said hed accumulated over 17,000 reward points and maintained 
Lloyds had acted unfairly in making changes which meant hed lose these points. He also 
said COVID-19 meant he was unable to use his credit cards as he usually would and 
couldnt fully benefit from the increased cashback promotion. Because of this, he asked for 
an ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing I need to consider is whether Lloyds were entitled to make changes to the 
points reward scheme. This terms and conditions of the scheme say:
the Trustcard plus scheme will continue until we notify you otherwise. We will give you at 
least six months notice before we end Trustcard Plus. The notice will tell you how long your 
points remain valid. 
It follows Im satisfied Lloyds can make changes to the scheme at any time. Therefore, I 
dont think it made an error or acted unfairly by changing the points reward scheme to a 
cashback scheme. 
But Mr O wasnt provided with sufficient notice following Lloyds decision to make changes to 
the scheme  which it accepts. So I need to go on and consider if this impacted Mr O. 
Having done so, I think it did  Ill explain why. 
Mr O accepts he wouldve had to pay a large amount of money in order to redeem his 
reward points  even if Lloyds had provided him with the notice it promised. Ive seen 
nothing that suggests Mr O wouldve acted differently here and had intended to make a large 
capital purchase within six months from the receipt of the letter. Because of this I dont think 
hes been disadvantaged. 
Mr O said he couldnt use his credit cards as he usually wouldve due to the COVID-19 
pandemic. He said this meant he couldnt fully benefit from the cashback promotion period. 
But I dont agree this means the offer itself was unfair. From what Ive seen, Lloyds only 
provided this to Mr O because itd failed to provide sufficient notice  and not because it 
made an error or acted unfairly by changing the scheme. 
Overall, whilst I accept Mr O didnt receive sufficient notice about the changes, I dont think 
Lloyds made an error or acted unfairly by making changes to the scheme. Its already paid 
Mr O £75 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this caused. This was in addition 
to the cashback promotion given to Mr O to use between January 2020 to April 2020. I think 
this is fair and reasonable in this case and so I wont be directing it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman