DRN-4125505
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, who Ill call Oodle.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I think Oodle have been reasonable here. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Oodle, who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here was a little 
over six years old and had already completed about 59,767 miles. 
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a car when a fault is 
identified that was present or developing when the car was supplied.
Mr S has identified several faults with his car and the dealership has offered to repair them. 
Theyve not had that opportunity yet, and Oodles final response letter explains that although 
the dealership is a considerable distance from Mr Ss home, the cost of transportation will be 
covered, and that the dealership have accepted responsibility for repairs. Oodle have also 
offered Mr S £100 as a goodwill gesture and, all told, I think their response has been 
reasonable. If further faults occur after the repairs are completed, and if those further faults 
can be shown to have been developing from the point of supply, or demonstrate the car isnt 
suitably durable, then Mr S may have rights to reject the car. But, in the first instance the 
business are entitled to try to repair it, and I dont therefore think Oodle have done anything 
wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman