DRN-2565757
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank plc trading as first direct didnt allow them to 
port their mortgage which meant they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage and a mortgage product with first direct. They intended to 
move house at some time and enquired from first direct whether the product was portable 
and were told that it was. But when Mr and Mrs M enquired about porting it to a plot of land 
to build on - or to a property they already owned, they were told that they couldnt do so. Mr 
and Mrs M say that they have been sold a product that isnt fit for purpose. Mr and Mrs M 
redeemed the mortgage in late 2020 and paid the ERC.
first direct said that porting depended on the mortgage application meeting their lending 
criteria and neither of these two scenarios did, so it didnt uphold their complaint. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed 
and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M took this mortgage product out to take advantage of the discounted rate for an 
extended period. If Mr and Ms M were to redeem the product within the period - which they 
in fact did - they would be liable to an ERC. But as a concession, the ERC can sometimes 
be avoided if Mr and Mrs M had been able to take out a mortgage on a property that they 
were buying and transfer the mortgage product over. Thats whats known as porting. Strictly 
speaking its the mortgage product that is ported and not the mortgage. In that situation there 
will have to be an application for a new mortgage on the new property. So, in effect Mr and 
Mrs M will apply for a mortgage on a new property and first direct will determine if its willing 
to lend on it. first direct will have criteria as to what type of lending its willing to do. This isnt 
unusual and we recognise that lenders as commercial entities are entitled to set their own 
criteria as to what they will lend on.
The difficulty here is that first direct didnt want to lend in the two situations that Mr and Mrs 
M proposed because the proposed loans were outside its lending criteria. The first one was 
to lend on a plot of land that they intended to build on but first direct doesnt lend in that type 
of situation and Mr and Mrs M accept that. The second one was that they wanted to port to a 
property they already owned. As the property was unencumbered, they wouldnt be buying a 
property with the assistance of a mortgage which is the normal situation. 
I note that Mr M feels he was misled during the phone call he had with the first direct 
mortgage adviser during the application process. I listened to that call. Mr and Mrs M were 
remortgaging over a ten-year term for home improvements. Mr M enquired if the mortgage 
was portable and was told it was. As it turned out, the mortgage product was portable as it 
could be ported to a property that first direct was willing to lend on but not for the particular 
circumstances that Mr and Mrs M wanted. Mr and Mrs M make the point that they had no 
easy access to know what first direct was willing to lend on or what first directs lending 
criteria was. 
The difficulty with first direct setting out its lending criteria is that its lending criteria can 
change. From time to time a lender will lend on some types of property and not on others 
and for some purposes and not others. Setting out what its lending criteria is at a particular 
moment in time would not necessarily assist a borrower porting a mortgage product 
sometime in the future and could indeed be misleading. So, along with the lenders right to 
confidentiality in not disclosing its lending criteria Im not of the view that its always beneficial 
for a lender to set it out. In this case, if Mr and Mrs M had a project in mind to port to, they 
had the opportunity to raise that with the adviser but didnt. If they didnt have a project in 
mind its unlikely that they would have investigated the lending criteria in any case. So, Im 
not of the view that Mr and Mrs M were at a disadvantage because the lending criteria 
wasnt published.  
The mortgage product would certainly be portable in the most likely situations  those of 
taking out a mortgage with a house purchase  and had Mr and Mrs M gone down that 
route, I expect that, subject to affordability etc that they could have ported the mortgage 
product and avoid paying the ERC.  So, I dont consider describing it as portable was 
misleading by first direct. In their particular circumstances, I believe it was open for Mr and 
Mrs M to clarify before they took out the product whether they could have ported it to their 
proposed project, but they didnt do so. Im sorry that Mr and Mrs M had to pay an ERC but 
for the above reasons my view is that first direct did nothing wrong and, so, I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman