DRN-3157587
The complaint
Ms H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit card 
account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Ms H says she opened the Vanquis credit card account in 2015. She says the lending was 
unaffordable and that appropriate checks were not carried out. Ms H says that if appropriate 
checks had been carried out then Vanquis ought to have realised the lending was 
unaffordable. She would like all interest and charges refunded as well as interest paid on 
that refund.
Vanquis says the account was opened in 2015 with a modest credit limit of £150 after 
appropriate checks were carried out. It says Ms H declared an income of £12,000 a year 
with additional income of a further £15,000 a year. Vanquis says Ms H had non-mortgage 
debt of £1,900 and the last default on her credit file was recorded some 20 months before 
this application. It says Ms H says she lost her job in 2017.
Ms H brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Vanquis carried out appropriate checks on the application and didnt 
think there was any adverse information it should have considered. The investigator also 
thought Ms H managed her account until she lost her job and that the credit limit was 
modest.
Ms H doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit applications. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type or 
amount of any lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for example a 
mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected Vanquiss checks to have been as detailed as for 
that type of lending, but appropriate checks must still be completed.
I have looked at Vanquiss records and I can see it checked Ms Hs credit file and calculated 
her other debt. I can see it checked the date of her last default which was some 20 months 
before the application and noted her overall income of £27,000 a year. So, Im satisfied that 
Vanquis did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Ms Hs application and that it 
was reasonably entitled to conclude the lending was affordable. It follows that Im also 
satisfied that the lending decision was not irresponsible.
I can also see that Ms H managed her account appropriately until she appears to have lost 
her job in 2017, which I think provides additional evidence that the lending was affordable at 
the time. And I think Vanquis approved what I think is a very low credit limit of £150 and I 
cant see why that would be unaffordable taking into account the annual income and debt.
Overall, Im satisfied Vanquis carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on this credit 
card account application that that the lending decision was affordable. In those 
circumstances I cant fairly order Vanquis refund charges or interest as Ms H would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman