DRN-3668577
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct bank didnt provide the service 
it should have in regard to his international payment.
What happened
Mr A made an international payment to a family members account overseas on 19 May 
2022. He called the bank on 20 May to confirm everything was alright and says he was told 
the money would transfer within four working days. Mr A says the money was being 
transferred to purchase a property and if it wasnt completed by 27 May then he would lose 
his deposit. As the money didnt arrive by 26 May he borrowed money to complete the 
transaction. He says he was told the issue was with the intermediary bank. Mr A returned to 
the UK on 31 May and asked his bank to recall the transaction. He says he was told this had 
happened, but this was a slow process. He says the situation cost him money due to the 
interest on his borrowing and payment for international calls as well as causing him stress.
First Direct issued a final response letter dated 25 May 2022. It said that international 
payments usually arrive within four working days although this can be longer depending on 
which country the payment is being sent to. It said that Mr As payment was stopped for 
compliance checks by the beneficiary bank and this was why it asked Mr A to confirm certain 
information. It said the information Mr A had confirmed had been relayed back to the 
beneficiary bank. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that First Direct was 
responsible for the delays in the movement of Mr As money.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the money had never reached the 
beneficiary bank. He said that although he recalled the money, the money was returned due 
to incomplete information being provided. He said that he wasnt contacted directly by the 
intermediary bank but instead this happened through First Direct. He said that he provided 
the additional information First Direct requested and so it was First Directs fault that the 
payment was returned due to incomplete information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr A is upset by the issues he experienced when trying to make an 
international payment. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied 
that First Direct did something wrong or treated Mr A unfairly. I do not find I can say this is 
the case here.
Mr A has said that he made the payment on 19 May, however this is noted in First Directs 
systems as debiting Mr As account on 20 May. First Direct has explained that an 
international payment will usually take up to four working days but that it can take longer 
depending on where the payment is being sent. On 25 May First Direct was contacted by the 
beneficiarys intermediary bank with some compliance questions. As the payment had 
reached the intermediary bank by 25 May (noting 20 May was a Friday) I find that First 
Direct did make the payment within its usual four working days timeframe. 
Additional information was requested to meet compliance checks. It isnt unreasonable for 
further questions to be asked on a transaction when compliance checks are needed. What is 
expected is that any information request is put to the customer in a timely way. In this case 
the information was requested on 25 May and this was raised with Mr A on the same day. 
First Direct confirmed in its final response letter dated the 25 May that the required 
information had been relayed to the beneficiary bank. Therefore, I find that First Direct acted 
in a timely way in regard to this request.  
While I note the comment Mr A has made that the transaction wasnt initiated until 25 May, 
the evidence shows this wasnt the case and that the transaction was initiated on 20 May. As 
further information was requested and provided on 25 May, this may be why the transaction 
was considered as initiated on that date by the beneficiary bank. 
As the money hadnt been received by the beneficiary bank on 26 May, Mr A has said he 
took action to source money from elsewhere to prevent losing out on a property and the 
costs involved in this. I understand this would have been stressful and frustrating, but I 
cannot say the delay was due to any fault of First Direct. I also cannot hold First Direct 
responsible for the actions Mr A then chose to take and any costs incurred as a result of 
these.
On 27 May, Mr A asked for the payment to be recalled. First Direct acted on this request. 
First Direct explained that the recall process could be lengthy, and I note the money was 
retuned (less costs) on 9 June. Mr A has noted that the transaction was returned due to 
insufficient information rather than the recall. While I can see this was the reason given the 
correspondence dated 14 June, I also note that First Direct had provided the answers to the 
questions the intermediary bank had asked. I have no evidence of further information being 
requested and so I cannot say that First Direct didnt act as it should have in response the 
information request. Mr A had requested the return of his money and this happened. While I 
accept there is a discrepancy about the reason, I do not find this will have disadvantaged 
him. 
In conclusion, I can understand that this process has been stressful and frustrating for Mr A. 
He has had to spend time and money dealing with the payment and lost out on funds due to 
the money being paid and recalled. However, as I do not find that First Direct did anything 
wrong or treated Mr A unfairly in anyway, I do not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman