DRN-1606139
 
The complaint
Miss J says Morses Club PLC (Morses) lent to her irresponsibly. She says she was in a 
vulnerable position at the time of lending and she also says the Morses agent took 
advantage of her. This caused her to suffer financial detriment and it also caused her a 
significant amount of trouble and upset. 
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the offer Morses made was reasonable. Miss J disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
Ive issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Js complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics:
 
extract from my provisional decision
This complaint is about nine home collected credit loans Morses provided to Miss J between 
September 2016 and February 2019. Some information the business has provided about the 
loans is as follows:
loan 
numberdate startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayments
1 11/11/2016 £300.00 33 £15.00
2 23/02/2017 £300.00 33 £15.00
3 25/05/2017 £400.00 33 £20.00
4 17/08/2017 £400.00 33 £20.00
5 01/12/2017 £800.00 52 £28.00
6 26/02/2018 £500.00 33 £25.00
7 06/11/2018 £1,200.00 52 £42.00
8 26/11/2018 £300.00 33 £15.00
9 12/02/2012 £500.00 52 £17.50
From what I can see Miss J would borrow before she had repaid the loan she already had. 
She would then use part of the proceeds of the new loan to repay part of the balance of the 
outstanding loan. So each loan doesnt have an end date as such. And Miss J was unable to 
fully repay loans 7, 8 and 9.
Miss J has clarified that she doesnt want to complain about loan 1. She says her problems 
with Morses started with the agent that sold loans 2 to 9. Because of this I havent 
considered the sale of loan 1.Morses has looked at Miss Js complaint and it agrees that it should be upheld. In its final 
response it said that, in summary:
loans 2 to 9 were not provided within its guidelines and the agent had acted 
unprofessionally during the loan application process
the evidence supported Miss Js allegation that the agent had completed the 
application process on the consumers behalf at times, so it wasnt persuaded that 
Miss J was fully informed about the lending
it couldnt verify how loans 2 and 3 were applied for
it was also unprofessional for the agent to arrange the loan repayments by text 
message as this involved Miss J providing her bank details, including security codes, 
in this format
 
Because of this Morses paid Miss J compensation, it has:
refunded the interest and charges Miss J paid on loans 2 to 9 plus interest of 8% 
simple
refunded the capital amounts on loans 2 and 3 plus interest of 8% simple
it reduced the compensation amount by the amounts Miss J still owed on loans 7, 8 
and 9
paid Miss J £500 for the distress and inconvenience the agents actions have caused 
her
 
Our adjudicator thought that this was a reasonable way to resolve the complaint. Miss J 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She said that:
she didnt apply for much of the lending, it wasnt just loans 2 and 3, the representative filled 
in the paperwork and the loans were placed into her account without her agreeing to them
she was a vulnerable adult and feels she was pestered by Morses over an extended period 
of time. She says this affected both her physical and mental health. She also struggled 
financially to repay the loans and sometimes relied on foodbanks
Miss J has told me that due to the extent of the problems her relationship with the agent, and 
the lending itself, caused her she would accept a further £1,500 compensation. At present, I 
dont think this is unreasonable. And at Morses' request I am putting my reasons why this is 
in writing.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term and high cost lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Looking through the file I can see that its not clear how Miss J applied for the loans. There is 
a large amount of variation in the signatures on the application forms. And Morses itself says 
that its likely the agent applied, at least in part, for loans 2 to 9 on Miss Js behalf.
Taking this into consideration I havent seen any persuasive evidence that Miss Js 
circumstances were properly considered. And I cant reasonably say that Morses was likely to have made proportionate checks before approving any of this lending. I note it agrees to 
this.
So I agree that Morses lent irresponsibly to Miss J. And I agree with the compensation it has 
paid in this respect. That is to refund all of the interest and charges repaid, plus interest and 
also to refund the capital paid on loans 2 and 3. I dont think its reasonable to refund the 
capital on any of the other loans as I understand Miss J did receive them.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Miss J was in a vulnerable situation at the time of 
sale of these loans. She has explained that she has problems with both her physical and 
mental health. Her financial situation can be precarious at times as her only source of 
income is benefits. So Morses had a particular duty of care here to ensure that it treated 
Miss J fairly. I has agreed that it fell short of this.
But I dont agree with the compensation Morses has made for the amount of trouble and 
upset its agents actions caused Miss J. I think this should be significantly higher. Ive 
detailed why this is below:
the tone of the communication from the agent to Miss J was often inappropriate. For 
example in one text I have seen regarding payment Miss J made via the Morses 
office she says Oh god Hun, sorry, I didnt even notice a payment was done! Sorry 
Hun, I cant believe they dont give out our numbers, ridiculous! Never mind, thanks 
Hun. Buggers, they love taking payments as we dont get the commission
the agents brother was regularly acting on Morses' behalf at the agents request. I 
can see that Miss J texted the agents brother to cease contact and complained 
about being harassed. As far as I am aware this person was not employed by, or 
had any other connection with Morses, other than being related to the agent. And this 
does point to some wider issues in respect of the treatment of Miss Js data
the agent asked Miss J to inform Morses' office or the auditors that they talk face to 
face rather than by text. In the text of 12 March 2018 the Morses' agent says Just 
to say if anyone rings from my office this week about payment will you say we 
actually speak to each other? Dont say we text. And on 23 Oct 2018 she says Ok 
Hun, our auditor is on the prowl , just to remind you if she rings / calls, tell her we 
actually speak to each other to do your payments ok. Thanks Hun  xx
she regularly asked the consumer to forward her bank card details, including the 
security code, to her to make the loan repayments. I can see that Miss J sent the 
agent a picture of her bank card and told her of the security number as well as texting 
the detail
one of Miss Js family members was unwell and the agent knew about this. At one 
point the agent suggests that Miss J might consider taking another loan due to the 
expenses incurred due to hospital visits to this family member. The agent says in 
respect of the loan I thought I would say as you have probably spent a fortune 
over the last few weeks back and for [sic] your hospital
the agent informed Miss J of the details about another complaint made against her. 
She described this consumer as deluded
the agent seemed to offer loans without them being requested by Miss J, even 
though Miss J described dealing with the temptation as difficult
 
Bearing in mind Miss Js vulnerabilities this seems to me to be far more than what Morses 
has described as unprofessionalism. The correspondence I have seen paints a picture of a 
vulnerable person being taken advantage of over a sustained period of time. The tone of the 
text messages above bears this out, being more appropriate for a friendship than what is 
intended to be a professional relationship. Miss J says she felt betrayed when she realised 
she was taken advantage of for financial gain. And this adversely affected her mental health.Miss J has also said that she felt harassed and threatened by the agent. In particular when 
she struggled to make the repayments she says the agent involved her brother. This clearly 
happened and it seems like the agent passed on Miss J's confidential data to enable her 
brother to request the loan repayments. It seems reasonable to say that the Morses agent 
did this to pressure Miss J to make the repayments when she was struggling to do this.
This seems to have had a considerable impact on Miss J. She has explained that she 
struggled financially to make the loan repayments. But because of this pressure she felt that 
she needed to 'put these first'. So at times she would repay the loans rather than purchase 
essentials and, instead for example, use foodbanks. She sometimes needed to go without 
items shes described as disability sanitary products and other items that would help with 
her medical problems. I think the evidence I have seen shows the way the loans were 
collected significantly affected Miss J's mental health and physical wellbing.
And it's also clear this was a calculated series of actions on the part of the agent as she 
asked Miss J to assist in hiding this from Morses' auditors.
And further to this the agent seems to have used Miss J's financial situation and family 
problems to provide more loans. And Miss J felt that she couldn't refuse this, even thought it 
would cause her financial problems. This was due to the way the agent related to her, the 
actions of her brother, the way she felt she was complicit in hiding the way she paid the 
loans to Morses.
Miss J has talked about the anxiety and the shame she felt about this situation. And how she 
couldn't see a way out of it. The long term nature of this distress, and that she had contact 
with the agent on a weekly basis, had severe consequences for her. She says this led to a 
deterioration in her mental health 'due to the worry trying to find this money repeatedly'. This, 
in turn, led to Miss J self harming, and she says she considered suicide. She has received 
support for this but has needed to increase her medication.
Taking all of the above into consideration there isnt much doubt to me that Miss J was taken 
advantage of. On reading the file I have to say its reasonable to describe the situation Miss 
J found herself in was extremely difficult and I found it was genuinely concerning to read 
about the way Morses had acted towards her.
I think it goes without saying that this will have caused Miss J significant trouble and upset 
over time. Because of all of the above I think £2,000 compensation for this in total is 
reasonable. I understand that Morses has already paid £500 compensation for this part of 
her complaint and so I intend to require it to pay Miss J a further £1,500.
 
Morses, and Miss J, confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. Miss J 
accepted my provisional decision. Morses didnt agree with my provisional decision. 
In response to my earlier decision Miss J, and Morses, said that the Morses agents brother 
was employed by Morses. I understand he was a business manager. 
As Morses, didnt agree with my provisional decision Ive gone on to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The only substantive comment to my provisional decision, by both parties, was that the 
Morses agents brother, that had contacted Miss J, was employed by Morses. In my earlier 
decision I said that, as far as I could see, the Morses agents brother wasnt connected with 
Morses. So this part of my provisional decision wasnt correct. 
Ive thought about this new information (to me), but it hasnt changed my decision about Miss 
Js complaint. The reason I thought Miss Js complaint should be upheld was because of the 
obvious distress this situation caused her. The fact that the agents brother was employed by 
Morses doesnt appear to have altered this in any way. In fact it would have been reasonable 
for Miss J to have thought that another member of staff wouldve prevented some of the 
actions the Morses representative took. But this doesnt seem to have happened. 
So, having reconsidered everything again, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached 
before, for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Morses should pay Miss J £1500 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Js complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman