DRN-4454274
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as C, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont 
reimburse the money the company lost following an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
In May 2021, C made a payment of about £100,000 in the belief that they were paying one 
of their existing suppliers. Unfortunately, it turned out that C had fallen victim to a scam. By 
the time the scam was discovered and reported, only about £1,700 remained in the account 
where the money had gone.
C said that NatWest could have done more to prevent their loss. In particular, they say that 
when the payment was made, NatWest ought to have warned them that because it was a 
foreign payment there is no recourse under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(the Code), should something go wrong. C also said that the bank ought to have advised 
them not to send electronic payments abroad but to use cheques instead.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it couldnt be upheld. 
In summary, they said that compared to the prior account activity, the relevant payment 
wasnt out of character or unusual. So, they cant say that the bank failed to intervene by 
way of providing a warning or otherwise when the payment was made. On being advised of 
the scam, NatWest immediately reported it to the recipient bank and therefore there was no 
failure in this regard as well. C says that NatWest failed to obtain the recipients details, 
however the bank wouldnt be able to compel the recipient bank to disclose information 
about the recipients account. Taking all of this into account, the investigator said that they 
couldnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
C did not agree. Responding on behalf of C, their director reiterated that the bank ought to 
have warned C of the risks of making electronic payments abroad.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision (which forms part of this decision), not upholding the 
complaint. I said: 
I thank Cs director for providing detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I 
have read and considered in their entirety. I appreciate why he strongly feels that NatWest 
could have done more to help prevent Cs loss. However, I trust that he will not take the 
fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are 
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision is not 
to address in detail every point raised but to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them.
A lot has been said about the riskiness of making electronic payment abroad. However, 
the problem here occurred not so much because it was a payment abroad. The payment 
was correctly made to the account specified in the payment instruction. The problem 
principally arose because a fraudster intercepted an email exchange between C and its 
supplier and altered the bank details. Unfortunately, this was not deducted by C or their 
sub-contractor.
C has explained that when they get a request to change a bank account, their usual 
procedure is to contact the payee to verify the details. However, on this occasion that did 
not happen. C says that because the sub-contractor approved the invoice, it was assumed 
that they had in effect also authorised the change in the bank account. Therefore, the 
person making the payment did not carry out any further checks.
The payment instruction was then presented to the bank for payment. In broad terms, the 
starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that its customer authorises it to make. However, there are circumstances where it might 
be appropriate for banks to take additional steps  as for example have systems in place 
to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers 
were at risk of fraud.
So, I reviewed Cs account statements for a year or so prior to the payment to understand 
the general account activity and to determine whether on this occasion the bank ought to
have intervened.
Over the period, I see that this was an active account with several large payments within 
the UK and abroad. The disputed payment was higher in value when compared to other 
payments made during this period. However, occasional higher payments could happen 
on an account. Further, whilst the amount was high, it represented a relatively smaller 
proportion of the balance on the account. It did not for example consume all or substantial 
proportion of the funds in Cs account  which might have been an indicator it was at risk 
of fraud. The payment was to a new payee, but this alone wouldnt have given NatWest 
much cause for concern.
Given all this, I cant say that the payment stood out sufficiently from the prior account 
activity to reasonably have prompted NatWest to take further action. Im not persuaded 
that there was enough here for me to find NatWest at fault for carrying out Cs payment 
instruction in line with its primary obligation to do so.
C says a key issue here is the banks failure to warn C that electronic payments abroad 
carry a higher risk. They are particularly unhappy that the bank did not warn them that 
because it was a payment abroad, there is no recourse under the Code should something 
go wrong.
The CRM Code is a voluntary code that covers certain type of transactions, and even in 
relation to those types of transactions whether there could be a successful claim under the 
Code depends on what happened in that specific case.
Further, not all the customers of a participating bank are eligible to make a claim under the 
Code. For example, a business customer wouldnt be able to make a claim if they are not 
a micro-enterprise.  This is even for domestic payments.
There are specific rules and guidance to decide whether or not a business would fall 
under the definition of a micro-enterprise for this purpose. Broadly, a micro-enterprise, as 
defined in regulation 2(1) of the Payment Service Regulations is, an enterprise which 
employs fewer than 10 persons and whose annual turnover and/or annual balance sheet 
total does not exceed EUR 2 million. In other words, an enterprise wouldnt be considered 
as a micro- enterprise for this purpose if it employs 10 persons or more; or if it employs 
less than 10 persons then if both its total gross assets and annual turnover exceed EUR 2 million. When determining whether these criteria are met, if the entity has any connected 
enterprises, their figures will also need to be taken into account. In addition, the eligibility 
is determined based on the status at the time of the transaction.
From what I have seen, there is no requirement under the Code that where a particular 
transaction isnt covered under the Code, the bank should notify this to its customer when 
making the payment. Whilst it is always helpful if the bank could provide as much warning 
and information as possible to its customers, given all of the above, I can see why it could 
be difficult in practice to have such a requirement.
Nevertheless, in this instance, C was advised by their supplier (or so they thought) to pay 
to an account abroad. So even if C was made aware that the payment isnt covered by the 
Code, I consider it more likely they would have proceeded with the payment anyway 
because that is what their supplier asked them to do.
I think the bank could have given generic warning about the scams of this nature. 
However, in this instance as previously noted, the payer believed that the sub-contractor 
had verified the payment details - to the extent that they didnt deem it necessary to call 
and check with the payee as they would have usually done. So, I think it is more likely 
than not that they would have proceeded with the payment in any case.
The director of C also strongly believes that the bank ought to have advised C that 
sending money abroad by way of cheque was safer. He believes that the banks should 
ban all electronic payments abroad and suggest to their customer that they should only 
use cheques. Firstly, a payment by cheque isnt also covered under the Code. Secondly, 
there are advantages and disadvantages in different modes of payments and a payment 
by cheque isnt devoid of risk. So, I am not persuaded that when C made this electronic 
payment NatWest automatically ought to have advised them to send the payment by 
cheque instead. Ultimately, I think it is for the company to decide how they would like to 
send the money abroad.
Cs director also feels that because payments abroad arent covered by the Code, the 
bank wasnt incentivised to chase the fraudster. However, I can see that the bank 
promptly contacted the recipient bank abroad after being advised of the scam, put Cs 
concerns to that bank and helped C recover the sum that was left in the recipients 
account. I consider that the bank in effect did what they would normally do in such 
circumstances even where the payment had been made within the UK, and whether or not 
the payment was covered under the Code.
I know this will come as a disappointment to C. I am aware that they are strongly of the 
view that their bank let them down on this occasion. But I can only make an award against 
NatWest if I consider that the bank had done something wrong, which has led to Cs loss. 
For the reasons given I am not persuaded that there was any error or omission on part of 
NatWest which has resulted in Cs loss. As such I cant fairly or reasonably ask it to refund 
their loss.
Cs response to my provisional decision
C did not accept my provisional decision. Their director gave a detailed response 
commenting on various parts of my decision all of which I have read and considered fully. In 
essence, they said:
The payment was made to someone C had paid in the past but this time purportedly to a 
new account of theirs. It was a large payment and to abroad. NatWest has past data from 
which it could have seen that this account was different to where C had paid the same supplier in the past. So, it should have flagged a warning to C asking them to verify the 
account details with the supplier. This is especially as there was no recourse to the CRM 
Code for payments abroad. 
My decision is inconsistent with a decision by another ombudsman in another case, as 
quoted in a magazine, which the ombudsman upheld where the circumstances appear to be 
similar.
It is incorrect to say that C would have proceeded with the payment in any case even if a 
warning was given. If the bank had warned C that they were at risk if a payment goes to a 
fraudsters bank account there would be no recourse (unless the money can be retrieved in 
time), then they would have made the payment by cheque.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
I acknowledge the arguments presented by C. As the victim of a callous scam, I appreciate 
the directors strength of feeling on this matter and why they believe that the bank ought to 
have done more to prevent the scam. However, what I am considering here is whether it is 
fair and reasonable to conclude that the loss to C was caused by the bank. 
It is not in dispute that the payment was authorised by C. The starting position in law 
therefore is that a bank is obliged to process the payments and withdrawals that its customer 
authorises it to make. But there can be circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
banks to take additional steps  as for example have systems in place to look out for 
unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of 
fraud. 
Ultimately, it is a matter for the bank as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate.  But where it is alleged that it didnt 
do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an authorised push payment fraud, I will 
look into the circumstances of the case and based on what I have seen, decide whether in 
that case the bank could have fairly and reasonably done more. 
I have considered this and for the reasons given in my provisional decision, I cant say that 
the disputed payment stood out sufficiently from the prior account activity to have prompted 
the bank take further action. Im not persuaded that there was enough here for me to find the 
bank was at fault in carrying out Cs payment instruction in line with its primary obligation to 
do so.
C says that NatWest had the data of past transactions from which it could have seen that the 
account to which C was making the relevant payment was different to where C had paid the 
same supplier in the past. So, it should have flagged a warning to C asking them to verify the 
account details with the supplier.
It is not unusual for a supplier to change their bank account details. So, it wouldnt 
automatically be a concern to the bank. Also in this instance, we have the bank statement for 
about a year prior to the relevant transaction and I cant find a prior payment to that supplier during this whole period. So, it is not the case for example that the details were changed 
within days.
Nevertheless, as I said in my provisional decision, I agree that the bank could have given 
generic warning about scams and not having any recourse if the funds were lost. But I also 
said that in this instance it was more likely than not that C would have proceeded with the 
payment in any case.
Cs director asserts that if such a warning was provided, the person who made the payment 
would not have proceeded with it.  
If there is a dispute about what would have happened, I must decide on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what is most likely  in the light of the evidence.
In this instance, the director has explained that usually if C gets a specific request to change 
a bank account, they will contact the payee. But on this occasion, because the sub-
contractor authorised the invoice, the person making the payment believed that the sub-
contractor had also verified and ratified the change to the bank account. So, they did not 
deem it necessary to follow the usual procedure and verify the change with the payee and 
went ahead with the payment. In the circumstances, I remain of the view it is more likely than 
not that even if such a generic warning was presented to them when they made the 
payment, they would have proceeded with the payment as they had no doubt about the 
payment details.
The director has also referred to me an article in a magazine. He says that the 
circumstances of the case mentioned in that article appear similar to this case but in that 
case the ombudsman upheld the complaint. I am not aware of the specifics of the case and 
so cannot comment about it. However, the fact that the Service may arrive at different 
outcomes on separate cases should not be seen as surprising. It is not a question of 
inconsistency, but a matter of the ombudsman looking at each complaint individually and 
making a decision on what they believe is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of that 
particular case. There may be surface similarities between some complaints but when 
looked at in detail, the Service generally finds that different facts and issues are involved. 
I am sorry to disappoint C. As I said earlier, what I am considering here is whether it is fair 
and reasonable to conclude that the loss to C was caused by the bank. For the reasons 
given I am not persuaded that was the case here. As such I cant fairly or reasonably ask it 
to refund their loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman