DRN-4297862
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Lendable Ltd, trading as Autolend.
What happened
Ive previously issued a couple of provisional decisions on this complaint. The most recent 
provisional decision was issued in July 2023 and an extract from that decision is set out 
below.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June of this year. An extract from that
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr R acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Autolend, who are also the
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant
circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr R. The car here was about
seven years old and had already completed almost 89,000 miles. So, I dont think a
reasonable person would expect it to be fault free as would perhaps be the case with a
brand new car.
Mr R complained about an oil leak as soon as he collected the car. Hes explained that the
dealership convinced him that fault was quite trivial, and he was therefore prepared to
authorise the repair and proceed with the deal. The repair to the crankshaft seal was
therefore, completed in August 2022, only a couple of weeks after the car had been supplied
to Mr R.
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to fix a fault present when the
car is supplied. I therefore think Autolend had that opportunity in August 2022. The business
doesnt get one chance to repair each different fault, simply one chance to repair the car. So,
if subsequent faults are identified that make the car of unsatisfactory quality we would
usually tell the business to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
A few months after the crankshaft seal was replaced, in October 2022, a third party garage
identified issues with a loose and leaking sump plug, a rattle from the flywheel which the
dealership have suggested may mean the flywheel needs replacing, and a blocked heater
matrix which means the air conditioning and heating doesnt work.
There were also issues with loose engine mounting bolts and a potential clutch problem. I
dont think those issues have been corroborated by the dealership. Ill not consider those
matters any further at this stage as I think the other issues are sufficient to persuade me this
car was not supplied in a satisfactory condition and should now be rejected.
Whilst I accept that a car of this age and mileage may be experiencing quite significant wear
and tear or suffer breakdowns more frequently than a new car, perhaps because
components are coming to the end of their life. I dont think the issues Mr R has now
identified could fairly be considered normal wear and tear. He had only completed 1,409
miles by the time the problems were identified, and I think its therefore likely they were
issues that were developing at the point of supply. I dont think a reasonable person would
think those issues suggested the car was supplied in a satisfactory condition. And when I
consider that, I take into account that the relevant legislation asks us to think about whether
goods have been durable. I dont think the number of faults this car has experienced in such
a short space of time would make it durable.
I can see Mr R has complained that the car was also misrepresented to him as it was
advertised with a full service history, but he hasnt been supplied with evidence of that. I
cant see that Autolend have been asked to look at that issue, and we wouldnt usually
consider a complaint before the business had. I dont think the outcome of that complaint
point really matters as the redress Im suggesting would, in these circumstances, be likely to
be similar.
Putting things right
Autolend should collect the car at no cost to Mr R and they should end the finance
agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr R has paid and, as hes been deprived of that money,
they will need to add interest to that refund.
The relevant legislation allows the business to retain some of the finance instalments its
been paid in respect of the use the consumer has had from the car. In September 2022 Mr R
stopped using the vehicle when he says, and the dealerships recorded mileage confirms, he
had completed 1,409 miles. Ive seen an email from Mr R that he sent on 13 October 2022.
He explains that hed only been able to use the car for four of the last ten weeks. Whilst that
may be the case, I think the mileage he completed in that time was more than average and,
on balance, Im expecting to tell Autolend to return all but two of the monthly finance
instalments Mr R has paid. They will need to add interest to that refund.
Mr R has had to commission a report on the cars condition in order to support his claim. I
think that cost (£69.60) has been incurred as a consequence of the car being of
unsatisfactory quality. Ive also seen invoices for the diagnostics completed by the
dealership in November 2022, the inspection of the heater and flywheel issues also
completed by the dealer in January 2023, and the crankshaft seal replacement completed in
August 2022 at a cost of £143.99. If any of these costs were paid by Mr R I think they were
paid as a consequence of the cars failings. Autolend should therefore refund the expenses
on provision of proof of payment if Mr R can provide that.
Mr R has also explained that hes continued to insure and tax the car whilst his complaint
has been ongoing and despite not driving the car since September 2022. Its not fair for him
to have been doing so whilst hes not had use of the car so Autolend should provide a pro-
rata refund of those expenses for the time Mr R has been paying tax and insurance but
hasnt been using the car. I think that was from, and including, October 2022. Autolendshould add interest to the refund.
I understand that Mr R has had to use taxis and public transport whilst his car was
unavailable to him. Im not expecting to tell Autolend to refund those expenses as Im asking
them to refund the finance instalments that were paid when Mr R wasnt using the car and in
those circumstances he wasnt, or isnt, out of pocket.
Mr R has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to the
dealership and obtain a third party diagnostic report. Hes also had to escalate his complaint
to this Service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. Whilst I can see that
Autolend have responded quite quickly and comprehensively to Mr Rs concerns and that
theyve clearly been chasing the dealership for a rapid response, I dont think their final
response to Mr R was fair. In that final response they approved rejection of the car (although
they later changed their mind) but they asked Mr R to continue paying for the car even
though it was off the road, until they got their money back from the dealership. Whether
Autolend were able to get their money back should have been of little concern to Mr R. His
claim was with Autolend, and I think he could therefore have expected to be given his money
back without delay. I think that inconvenienced Mr R and, taking all of that information into
account Im expecting to tell Autolend to pay him £400 in compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Lendable
Ltd to:
Allow Mr R to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr R.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund all finance instalments except two, in respect of loss of use. Add 8% simple
interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of any diagnostics or repairs Mr R can demonstrate he paid for. Add
8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr R £400 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
Experienced.
Provide a pro-rata refund of road tax and insurance on provision of proof of payment
from Mr R and for the period from October 2022 until the complaint is settled. Add
8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Rs credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Further comments and evidence
Autolend provided a detailed response to my provisional decision. It isnt practical to repeat
everything they said, but I have read the document and given due consideration to the points
raised.
In summary Autolend agreed that there had been an oil leak when the car was supplied, and
that Mr R had sanctioned the repair. They explained that seals dont last forever and that this
one was nearing the end of its serviceable life. They said the dealership hadnt been able tocorroborate there were any faults with the coolant system, the heating and air conditioning,
and the clutch. They said that if there was an issue or an issue developing was narrowed
down to be a blocked heater matrix. A heater matrix is also something that is subject to wear
and tear. Autolend also noted that there wasnt a leak in the sump but that the sump plug
had been loosened. They noted there was an issue with a loose tensioner pulley but
explained that was likely down to normal wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage.
They suggested Mr R would have noticed that when topping up his oil up and they said, The
only items that seem to be faulty are items that you would expect to become faulty or worn
after a period of time.
Autolend also explained that Mr R settled the finance and sold the car in March 2023 and
that they therefore couldnt comply with my provisional decision to allow Mr R to reject the
car and to collect it.
Mr R provided no further comments or evidence.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision that, I dont think the issues Mr R has now
identified could fairly be considered normal wear and tear. He had only completed 1,409
miles by the time the problems were identified, and I think its therefore likely they were
issues that were developing at the point of supply. I dont think a reasonable person would
think those issues suggested the car was supplied in a satisfactory condition. And when I
consider that, I take into account that the relevant legislation asks us to think about whether
goods have been durable. I dont think the number of faults this car has experienced in such
a short space of time would make it durable.
While Autolend dispute some of the issues identified by the third party garage it seems they
accept there was a blocked heater matrix, a loose sump plug, an oil leak due to a faulty
crankshaft seal, and a rattle that was caused by a loose pulley and that the dealership have
suggested may mean the flywheel needs replacing. It seems likely to me that if the heater
matrix was blocked there would be issues with the air conditioning and heating in the car too.
As Mr R completed such limited mileage in the car before those issues were identified I dont
think it would be fair to suggest the car was durable and I still therefore think this car was of
unsatisfactory quality.
I wasnt aware that Mr R had sold the car and settled the agreement. That means that the
redress Id proposed in my provisional decision cant be carried out as theres no car to
collect or agreement to end. Ive therefore thought about what that redress should now look
like.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Lendable
Ltd to:
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund all finance instalments except two, in respect of loss of use. Add 8% simple
interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of any diagnostics or repairs Mr R can demonstrate he paid for. Add
8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.Pay Mr R £400 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
Provide a pro-rata refund of road tax and insurance on provision of proof of payment
from Mr R and for the period from October 2022 until the complaint is settled. Add
8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Rs credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Further comments after my second provisional decision
Mr R didnt think the compensation I had suggested was sufficient. He also explained that 
hed had to sell the car at a price below the settlement figure offered by Autolend and had 
therefore had to borrow money to settle the account. He set out his losses and suggested a 
settlement between £2,718.60 and £3,318.60 would be more appropriate.
Autolend provided a further, detailed response, Ive read it all but will refer to what I feel are 
the most pertinent points. Autolend didnt agree with my summary of what theyd had to say 
about my initial provisional decision. They provided further information on why a heater 
matrix may become blocked. They suggested it didnt make the vehicle of unsatisfactory 
quality and that a heater matrix could become blocked in as little as 400 miles. They didnt 
think it was fair to suggest a loose sump plug rendered the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality 
as it was simply a failure to tighten it. They also thought it was likely the air conditioning had 
been working fine as Mr R hadnt mentioned it during the very hot summer weather. They 
said there was no evidence the tensioner pulley was faulty or worn and that the dealership 
had only said further inspection was required. They provided their view that a tensioner fault 
was a wear and tear issue. Autolend explained that whilst the dealership had suggested 
there was a potential faulty flywheel this wasnt the case and has now been concluded as 
not the flywheel but potentially a worn tensioner pulley, if anything.
Autolend said that Just because Mr R had one repair previously doesn't mean other issues 
that arise make the vehicle unsatisfactory or faulty. They said they had no evidence of a 
fault with the car and they referred me to previous decisions from this Service on wear and 
tear cases, and to some decisions of the Motor Ombudsman that they also believed were 
relevant.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Autolend are right to suggest that just because the car had been previously repaired it 
doesnt mean that other issues that arise would necessarily make it of unsatisfactory quality. 
Thats because subsequent issues may be related to wear and tear, or may not have been 
developing at the inception of the deal. But, as Ive explained the relevant legislation asks 
us to think about whether goods have been durable. And I dont think the number of faults 
this car has experienced in such a short space of time could fairly be considered to make it 
durable.
The dealerships own review of the issues Mr R referred to them said we have narrowed it 
(the rattle) down to one of the tensioner pulleys and that further diagnosis will be required 
to determine which pulley is faulty (my emphasis). The report also confirms there is a blocked heater matrix. So, I dont agree with Autolend that there is no evidence of a fault.  I 
also think its likely a blocked heater matrix would cause issues with the air conditioning.
Mr R had only completed 1,409 miles in the car by the time the additional faults were 
identified and, together with the original crankshaft seal leak, Im persuaded that means this 
car wasnt durable and that Autolend need to put things right.
It was Mr Rs decision to sell the car and not to wait for this decision, so I dont think it would 
be fair to hold Autolend responsible for any losses he may have incurred as a consequence 
of the sale. Having reviewed the redress I suggested in my latest provisional decision I am 
not minded to change it. I think the compensation for distress and inconvenience is in line 
with our published guidance on those types of payment.
Putting things right
My most recent provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Lendable Ltd to:
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund all finance instalments except two, in respect of loss of use. Add 8% simple
interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of any diagnostics or repairs Mr R can demonstrate he paid for. Add
8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr R £400 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
Provide a pro-rata refund of road tax and insurance on provision of proof of payment
from Mr R and for the period from October 2022 until the complaint is settled. Add
8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Rs credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman