DRN-1800771
 
The complaint
Mr K has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of his car insurance 
policy.
Reference to UKI includes their agents.
What happened
Mr Ks car was insured with UKI. On 27 June 2019, he was involved in an accident with 
another car. Both sides said the other was to blame. Mr Ks car was a total loss.
UKI investigated the circumstances of the accident and got legal advice from a solicitor who 
advised that if the matter went to court, it was likely the court would find Mr K and the other 
driver equally to blame for the accident. For that reason, UKI settled the claim on a 50/50 
split liability basis. Mr K wasnt happy with UKIs decision because he felt the evidence was 
strongly in his favour that the other driver was fully to blame.
Separate to the claim relating the damage to Mr Ks car, he also suffered injuries and wanted 
to claim compensation from the other drivers insurer. UKI said that Mr K didnt have a legal 
cover add on with his policy. As a claim for injury is what is known as an uninsured loss its 
not something that Mr K could claim under his own policy. But if he had a legal cover add on 
he could have used that to claim compensation for his injuries. But UKI said their Motor 
Legal Expense Claims team (legal team) would still assist Mr K. The legal team looked into 
Mr Ks injury claim and contacted the other drivers insurer to claim for Mr Ks injuries. In 
response to that the other drivers insurer accepted full liability on behalf of the other driver. 
While Mr K was pleased with that outcome he was disappointed that UKI had settled on a 
50/50 split liability basis whereas the legal team looking into his compensation claim were 
able to secure a full liability admission. Mr K said the evidence relied upon by the legal team 
was the same as the evidence UKI had. 
Mr K was also unhappy with a number of other aspects of UKIs service and complained. 
UKI paid Mr K a total of £395 compensation for the service issues which they accepted could 
have been better. But in relation to their decision to settle the claim on a 50/50 split liability 
basis, UKI said they had acted reasonably as they had investigated the matter and had 
taken legal advice from an experienced solicitor.
Mr K brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He felt that some 
mistakes had been made and that UKIs service could have been better, but he said the total 
compensation of £395 paid by UKI was reasonable to address their errors. Mr K didnt agree 
and said UKI should have paid at least £500 compensation. As Mr K didnt agree with our 
investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr K, but Im not going to uphold his complaint as I 
agree with our investigator that the compensation offered by UKI is reasonable. Ill explain 
why.
In his complaint, Mr K has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. Although I wont address every point made, I want to assure the parties that I have 
considered all the information that has been provided to our service. But, in this decision, I 
will focus on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide if UKI have dealt with 
Mr K in a fair and reasonable way.
As explained by our investigator in his written View, Mr K raised a number of concerns at 
various stages. And both parties agreed for us to consider all the issues under one 
complaint. For ease, I will deal with each issue in the same order as dealt with in our 
investigators written View.
liability for the accident
Under the policy, UKI have the discretion to settle claims as they feel appropriate without the 
need to get Mr Ks agreement. But I expect them to exercise that discretion in a fair and 
reasonable way. I think UKIs decision to settle the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis was 
reasonable.
Before reaching their decision, UKI considered all the evidence that was available, including 
Mr Ks version of events and the CCTV. Ultimately, liability in accidents such as this can only 
be decided by a court. But I dont expect insurers to take all liability disputes to court 
especially where the insurer doesnt believe they can secure a successful outcome. So, in 
Mr Ks case, UKI obtained a legal opinion from a solicitor who has extensive experience in 
matters such as this. Ive seen the solicitors opinion and it is detailed and reasoned. And the 
solicitor advised that a court would likely decide liability should be split 50/50. The solicitor is 
an expert in this field, so I think it was reasonable that UKI followed that advice.
The fact that a separate legal team pursued the matter in relation to Mr Ks personal injury 
claim which resulted in the other drivers insurer fully admitting liability doesnt, in my view, 
make UKIs decision to accept a 50/50 split in liability unreasonable. As Ive mentioned 
above, UKI investigated the matter and, crucially, they followed expert legal advice. I dont 
know what led to the other side changing their position but they did. And as a result, UKI 
recorded the accident as not being Mr Ks fault. Im therefore not upholding this aspect of the 
complaint.
CCTV delay and service issues
Mr K was unhappy that it took UKI around six weeks before they provided the CCTV footage 
to the other drivers insurer. UKI said they wanted to consider the footage and other 
evidence first as part of their investigation. Insurers like UKI deal with many claims at any 
given time so sometimes things might take longer than one would hope. And as part of their 
overall approach to a claim an insurer might want to make sure they have obtained and 
considered all the evidence before they approach the other side to put forward a convincing 
claim, rather than providing piecemeal evidence. But UKI did acknowledge that they could 
have provided the footage sooner than they did. But given the other sides initial stance, I 
cant say that they would have admitted liability in full had UKI provided the CCTV sooner 
than they did.
Mr K was also unhappy that UKI didnt give him sufficient updates and that he wasnt always 
called back when promised.To address Mr Ks complaint about the delay in providing the CCTV and the service issues, 
UKI offered Mr K £250 compensation. I think thats a reasonable amount so Im not asking 
them to do anything further.
personal injury claim
Mr K said that because UKI were looking to settle the accident claim on a 50/50 split liability 
basis that had caused his personal injury claim to stop. 
Ive seen the correspondence between Mr K and the legal team dealing with his injury claim. 
In that Mr K explained that he required physiotherapy treatment. But the legal team told him 
that because the other driver hadnt accepted full liability and a 50/50 split was being 
considered, the legal team couldnt approve the cost of Mr Ks treatment. They said he would 
have to either fund the treatment himself privately or seek treatment through the NHS. 
But it wasnt the case that Mr Ks personal injury claimed had stopped. The legal team were 
dealing with it which ultimately resulted in a positive outcome for Mr K.
But as Ive explained above, because I think UKIs decision to settle the accident claim on a 
50/50 split liability basis was reasonable, even if that did have an impact on Mr Ks injury 
claim, I dont think UKI could be held responsible for that. So, Im not upholding this aspect 
of the complaint.
hire car
Mr K was unhappy with the hire car he was provided. But I can see that when he raised that 
with UKI they provided him with a more suitable car, which I think was reasonable. Im 
therefore not asking them to do anything further.
valuation of Mr Ks car
As a result of the accident Mr Ks car was a total loss. Under the policy UKI had to pay Mr K 
the cars pre-accident market value. The initial valuation UKI put on the car was too low 
which caused Mr K to complain. But in response to that UKI increased the valuation to the 
correct amount which Mr K was satisfied with. UKI also offered £20 compensation for their 
mistake. I think the combination of correcting the valuation and the compensation was 
reasonable and a fair response to Mr Ks dissatisfaction. Im therefore not asking UKI to do 
anything further on this point.
delay in paying the settlement 
UKI delayed sending Mr K the settlement amount for his car and Mr K had to chase UKI 
about that. UKI accepted their mistake and offered Mr K a total of £125 compensation to 
address their error. I think thats reasonable compensation, so Im not asking them to do 
anything further.
summary and  compensation
Its clear that certain things went wrong and UKIs service could have been better. The 
mistakes caused Mr K to experience distress and inconvenience. But Im satisfied that UKI 
took steps to put things right and I feel that overall the total compensation of £395 they 
offered him was reasonable. And that amount is consistent with the types of compensation 
our service awards for complaints of this seriousness. Im therefore not asking UKI to 
increase the compensation.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman