DRN-1716196
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tilney Investment Management Services Limited charged Fidelity 
platform fees without warning him of this; it failed to tell him when it set up its own cheaper 
platform and subsequently charged him two sets of fees. It also continued to charge fees 
after he stopped using its service in 2015.
What happened
Tilney rejected his complaint, noting that Mr M had originally opened his account in 1999 
(under its Best Invest banner) when it didnt have its own platform and was partnered with 
Fidelity. Clients were charged Fidelity platform fees via commission until 2015 when 
regulatory requirements meant discrete charges were levied. It said it had kept Mr M fully 
informed of the charges including a phone call in 2015 to inform him about the change. 
Further, it said Mr Ms account had remained open since 2015 and contained various 
investments and it was therefore entitled to continue levying fees.
An investigator at this service did not believe Mr Ms complaint should be upheld, concluding 
that Tilney had not done anything wrong, largely for the reasons Tilney had outlined.
He said the evidence indicated that Mr M had not been charged two sets of fees. Instead 
Tilney had initially charged him for using Fidelitys platform and then, when it set up its own 
platform, just charged him for that one. He acknowledged Mr M said he hadnt been told that 
Tilney/Best Invest used Fidelitys platform when he opened his account in 1999 but he didnt 
accept this was unreasonable.
Mr M did not agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, I will not repeat 
the detailed points he made.
I acknowledge that Tilney has not been able to produce the original documentation Mr M 
would have received in 1999 but I have no reason to doubt this would not have set out the 
platform charges given the recent evidence it supplied. As an execution-only customer it was 
Mr Ms responsibility to check what service Tilney was offering and the cost of using this, 
including any third party platform fees.
The evidence also indicates that Tilney informed Mr M about the new charging structure in 
2015, and he agreed to this. Ive seen no evidence to indicate he was wrongly charged fees 
that were not set out in the letters from this time. I dont agree that Tilney ought to have 
proactively contacted Mr M if/when it set up a cheaper platform service given he was a non-
advised client.The evidence further demonstrates that Mr M retained an investment account with Tilney 
from 2015 and 2019. It was therefore entitled to levy its standard management/ 
administration charges for this service. 
So, overall, I am not persuaded that Tilney has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman