DRN-3884537
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the way Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money handled her 
request for a refund in respect of flights she paid for using her credit card which did not go 
ahead.
What happened
In September 2021 Mrs J booked return flights for her and her family from London to Lagos 
via a stop off in Dubai with an airline Ill call E. The flights cost £3,642.76 and were due to 
depart on 23 December 2021 and return on 6 January 2022. 
On 26 December 2021, while Mrs J was in Dubai, E emailed her to explain her flight from 
Dubai to Lagos had been cancelled. Mrs J said she called E to see if she could get another 
flight but was told that shed need to visit one of its offices to sort things out.
 
Upon visiting a local office in Dubai, Mrs J said she was told that E could fly her to Ghana 
but could not arrange to get her into Nigeria. She said she was also told that if she were to 
stay in Dubai until the next available flight with an alternative airline on 3 January 2022, E 
wouldnt cover her additional expenses.
Mrs J said she made the decision to fly back to London on 30 December 2021 as she wasnt 
going to be able to get into Nigeria. She said she had to cancel a taxi that was going to pick 
her up on 6 January 2022 and was charged the full cost of this as a result of not being able 
to provide sufficient notice of cancellation. Mrs J complained to E about what had happened.
E wrote to Mrs J in late January 2022. It said her flight had been cancelled because of the 
Nigerian Government retracting our approval to operate flights. It said because this was out 
of its control, it wouldnt be paying a refund to Mrs J. 
A few days later Mrs J asked Virgin Money to step in and help by considering a claim for a 
full refund of her flights under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
Still in January 2022, Virgin Money wrote to Mrs J seeking more information about her claim. 
Mrs J provided this in February 2022. According to Virgin Moneys records, nothing then 
happened until June 2022 when Virgin Money asked Mrs J for even more information about 
her claim.
Virgin Money declined Mrs Js claim in September 2022. It said it had considered its liability 
to her under Section 75 but it didnt think there had been a breach of contract as the situation 
was covered by a limitation of liability clause in Es terms and conditions. 
When Mrs J complained to Virgin Money about its handling of the complaint it accepted it 
had failed to do anything with her claim between February 2022 and June 2022 and offered 
to pay her £150 compensation for this. But it maintained that it had not unreasonably 
declined to meet her claim for a refund.
 
An investigator thought Mrs Js complaint should be upheld in part. She said E had breached 
its contract with Mrs J by cancelling her flights to Lagos. And she thought a claim made 
under a process known as chargeback would likely have succeeded in part also.  She asked 
Virgin Money to pay Mrs J a pro rata refund for the flights that were cancelled as well as the 
additional taxi costs she incurred because she had to change her arrangements.
 
Mrs J agreed with the investigators findings.
Virgin Money didnt reply to the investigator before the deadline it was given, so the 
complaint was referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am looking here at the actions of Virgin Money and whether it has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way it handled Mrs Js request for help in getting her money back. This will 
take into account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier has acted, but 
there are also other considerations, such as the scheme rules a bank has to follow and its 
own obligations. 
There are two main ways a bank can help a consumer to recover money paid to a supplier 
who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money from the supplier 
through a process known as chargeback. Or it can assess whether the consumer has a valid 
claim under Section 75.
Chargeback
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a 
payment a consumer made to be refunded. Where chargeback grounds exist under the 
relevant scheme rules and there is some prospect of success, it is good practice for a bank 
to attempt a chargeback. 
From what I have seen Virgin Money did not attempt a chargeback for Mrs J. However, 
looking at the scheme rules, it seems it should have done. A chargeback raised under the 
services not received dispute condition looks to have had a reasonable prospect of success 
given E cancelled Mrs Js flight from Dubai to Lagos and declined to pay her a refund. And it 
looks very unlikely the return flight from Lagos to Dubai would have gone ahead either given 
the well documented problems E was having in Nigeria at the time. So, Mrs J could in all 
likelihood have claimed the cost of that back too. 
E told Mrs J it wouldnt refund her because the flights were cancelled due to unforeseen 
circumstances. So, it might have defended a chargeback on similar grounds.  However, a 
chargeback is decided based on the rules of the card scheme as opposed to the legal 
specifics of a dispute. And the scheme is clear that there are chargeback grounds where 
services have not been provided.
Mrs J wouldnt have been able to chargeback the whole cost of the flights as some of them 
were utilised. But the scheme rules allowed for partial chargebacks where not all of the 
services that were purchased were delivered. As the investigator pointed out, there is no 
breakdown of the cost of each flight on the booking confirmation. She apportioned equal 
value to each flight to come up with a figure of £1,821.38 for two flights. In the absence of a 
fairer suggestion from Virgin Money, I see no reason to depart from this way of working out 
the cost of the services that were not provided. So, I think a chargeback raised in respect of the flights that werent received would most 
likely have succeeded if robustly pursued by Virgin Money. This could have been raised 
when Mrs J returned her evidence to Virgin Money on 10 February 2022. Allowing 
reasonable time for the chargeback process to complete, (which can take up to three 
months), Mrs J would likely have had her money back by 10 May 2022. So Virgin Money 
should pay Mrs J £1,821.38 plus interest from this date.
Mrs J couldnt recover the cost of the taxi she had to cancel in the UK via chargeback as the 
scheme did not provide a mechanism to claim additional/consequential losses like this. So, 
Ive also considered whether Mrs J likely had a valid claim under Section 75.
Section 75
Section 75 provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has 
an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
Es terms and conditions contained a general promise to fly Mrs J and her party and also set 
out that in the event it cancelled a flight it would offer Mrs J the choice of either an alternative 
flight or a refund. But after cancelling her flight, E told Mrs J it was unable to offer any form 
of recompense when she contacted it in January 2022. And it told her it couldnt get her into 
Nigeria when she asked it to provide an alternative flight. So, it appears E did breach its 
contract with Mrs J and she likely had a valid claim in respect of the flights that were 
cancelled. 
As Ive explained above, these appear on balance to have been both the outbound and 
return legs of the journey from Dubai to Lagos given the well documented problems between 
E and the Nigerian government at that point in time. Again, in the absence of a fairer 
suggestion of working things out, the investigators way of calculating the unused portion of 
the journey doesnt seem unfair. 
Virgin Money pointed at a clause which it said meant E wasnt liable to Mrs J. Having looked 
at archived versions of Es website from the time of Mrs Js booking, this term appears to 
exclude all liability for any breach of contract by it. Whether such a clause would pass a test 
for fairness in court is questionable. But, as the investigator pointed out, the clause set out 
that it didnt apply to air carriage provided by E in any event. So, this doesnt appear to have 
been a good reason to decline Mrs Js claim.            
Mrs J said she had to cancel a taxi shed booked from the airport in the UK as a result of 
having to fly home earlier than planned and this happened too late to receive a refund. Ive 
seen an invoice for £145 marked paid for this, so Im satisfied its a cost that has been met 
by Mrs J. Generally, a consumer can claim for additional losses which are the foreseeable 
result of a breach of contract. Looking at the archived version of Es terms and conditions, 
and noting that Virgin Money has not offered anything in response to the investigators view 
on this matter, Ive not seen anything in this particular case that makes me think it would be 
unfair to require Virgin Money to pay this sum to Mrs J.  
Overall therefore, it was likely Mrs J had a valid claim in respect of her cancelled flights 
(either via chargeback or Section 75) and the cost of her cancelled taxi. So, by declining to 
meet Mrs Js request for a refund of these items, Virgin Money treated her unfairly. On that 
basis I find it would be fair and reasonable in this case for Virgin Money to treat Mrs J as if it 
had met her request for a refund of these two items and pay interest on both sums. 
Virgin Money accepted in its complaint response that it took too long to consider Mrs Js request for help. I can see it did nothing with her claim between February and June 2022 
which was an unreasonable length of time. Virgin Money offered to pay Mrs J £150 
compensation for this. I think thats fair compensation. Virgin Money should pay this to Mrs J 
if it hasnt yet done this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint. To put things right Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money must: 
Pay Mrs J £1,821.38 for the cancelled flights plus interest of 8% simple per annum 
from 10 May 2022 until the date of settlement *; 
pay Mrs J £145 for the cancelled taxi plus interest of 8% simple per annum from the 
date it declined her claim on 1 September 2022 until the date of settlement *, and;
pay Mrs J £150 for distress and inconvenience (if this has not already been paid to 
her).
*If Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs J how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mrs J a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman