DRN-3337931
The complaint
Mr C complains about the actions of John Lewis Financial Services Limited when he was 
tricked into making a payment on his credit card as a result of a scam. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mr C made a payment on his credit card of £765.21 (with £21.04 in fees) to a 
merchant who promised him a return on his investment by purchasing cryptocurrency. 
Almost immediately after making the payment Mr C became suspicious and contacted John 
Lewis to see if the payment could be cancelled. But John Lewis said they were unable to 
assist Mr C by raising a chargeback under the Mastercard rules. But they did apologise for 
the length of time it took to process the payment and gave Mr C some loyalty points as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
The investigator said the complaint should be upheld. He said Mr C had been the victim of a 
binary options scam, but John Lewis hadnt treated him fairly when it decided not to raise a 
chargeback. The investigator added that the merchant who contacted Mr C had been placed 
on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO), the Financial Market Authority of Austria had reported the merchant was operating 
without its authorisation and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had published a warning 
about the merchant in February 2019. As a result of this, the investigator said John Lewis 
shouldve been on the look out for suspicious transactions and its systems shouldve been 
updated with the latest alerts about scam merchants. If it had, the payment shouldve been 
blocked, and John Lewis shouldve spoken to Mr C about the payment and asked some 
questions about why he was making it. At this point, its likely the scam wouldve been 
uncovered. 
So, the investigator said John Lewis should refund Mr C the full transaction, the transaction 
fee and any associated interest and charges. It should also pay 8% interest on any 
payments made by Mr C towards the credit card balance arising from that payment, fees, 
interest or charges, from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
John Lewis didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. It said Mr C was 
responsible for the transaction and that it couldnt comprehend why he decided to make the 
payment in the circumstances. So, it felt Mr C was careless. John Lewis said that it wasnt 
up to it to interrogate Mr C about the payment and to ask who the merchant was. And that 
its not unreasonable for any bank to believe that, given the circumstances, its customers 
wouldve carried out a degree of due diligence on the merchant before making a payment. It 
added that its security system isnt designed to catch scams, instead it will detect unusual 
spending. And if this had triggered an SMS message wouldve been sent to Mr Cs mobile 
asking him to validate the transaction where he wouldve likely confirmed the transaction. 
John Lewis said that the investigator had only speculated that a warning wouldve made a 
difference here and Mr C shouldve conducted more research into the broker before making 
the payment which isnt John Lewis fault. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint. And for largely the same reasons. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive considered whether John Lewis shouldve processed the payment to the merchant in 
light of what was known about them  as Ive set out above. The investigator has already set 
out the relevant reasons why this service thinks John Lewis shouldve stopped the 
transaction in this instance. So, I wont repeat those is full. 
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has confirmed that 
a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 
2012 consultation paper on investment fraud, below). So, the first question for me to 
consider is whether this particular merchant was actually a fraudster.
Im satisfied the merchant here wasnt carrying out legitimate binary-options trades but were 
instead dishonestly defrauding customers. This is because from January 2018, binary-
options traders operating in the United Kingdom were required to be regulated by the FCA  
whereas the merchant here wasnt. Nor were they regulated or licensed in any other 
jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware. Ive also noted that the European Securities 
Markets Authority banned the sale of binary options to retail customers the EU (including the 
UK) on 2 July 2018. This indicates they were operating illegally, probably with dishonest 
intentions. Legitimate firms tend to comply with regulatory requirements.
There were also several warnings about the merchant on the IOSCO website which were 
placed in January 2019  more than two months before Mr C made the payment. There was 
also a warning on the FCAs website which was placed in February 2019  again before 
Mr C made the payment. Ive also considered the several reports in the public domain which 
state the merchant were scammers. Although this isnt as persuasive as the warnings Ive 
previously mentioned, this helps build an overall picture of the scammers dishonestly 
seeking gains at the expense of others. 
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity 
John Lewis is aware of our general position on PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties 
to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail. 
John Lewis has said that Mr C authorised the payment and failed to carry out sufficient due 
diligence before making the payment. But it is common ground here that the disputed 
payment was authorised by Mr C for the purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 
(the Regulations), in force at the time. This is because they were made by Mr C using the 
legitimate security credentials provided to him by John Lewis. This must be regarded as an authorised payment even though Mr C was the victim of a sophisticated scam. So, although 
he did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms 
and conditions of his account, Mr C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider John 
Lewis should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
John Lewis has said its system wont detect scammers/merchants only suspicious patterns 
of payments. First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of alerts about traders 
published by the FCA and/or IOSCO. As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor 
indicated  in its consultation paper entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: 
detecting perpetrators and protecting victims  that it was good industry practice for firms to 
build up an updated watch-list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to 
share timely and detailed intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the 
police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to 
expect credit card provider such as John Lewis bank to update its watch-list and 
communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the FCA 
and/or IOSCO. I believe, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bells  and lead to 
the payment being paused  pending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the 
payer.
In Mr Cs case there were several warnings about the merchant, including the one on the 
website of IOSCO which was there more than a month before the payment was made. It is 
not unreasonable to expect a large firm that regularly updates its internal alerts to include 
information about payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without permission. I 
accept that the warning did not specifically relate to binary-options trading; and it did not 
necessarily follow from the nature of the warning in isolation that these were fraudsters. 
Given the timing of the alert relative to Mr Cs payment, I think John Lewis ought to have 
automatically blocked it; as it had a fair chance to update and communicate its watch-list 
between the warning being published and the payment being made. John Lewis had 
constructive if not actual notice that the payee might not be a legitimate merchant  
therefore, it wouldve been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mr C before 
processing the payment in order to satisfy itself that all was well.
As a result, Im satisfied that if John Lewis had fulfilled its duties and carried out due 
diligence by stopping the transaction and speaking to Mr C, Im satisfied it is more likely than 
not he wouldve explained who had contacted him and why he was making the payment. 
This wouldve led John Lewis to explain its own customer experiences of similar and 
common types of scams. It also couldve asked Mr C to check whether the merchant was 
regulated by the FCA. Overall, there is no evidence that John Lewis intervened in the disputed payment before 
agreeing to process it, when I believe it ought to have. It was a missed opportunity to 
intervene.
Causation
Im satisfied that if John Lewis has spoken to Mr C along the lines Ive set out above, he 
wouldve quickly discovered the scam. When Mr C made the payment, he was quick to call 
John Lewis to explain that it didnt seem right and to ask to see if his money could be 
returned. I cant see any evidence he was willing to take high risks or that he had a history of 
speculative investments. So, a clear warning and asking Mr C to look at the FCAs website 
wouldve led Mr C to the FCA warning about this merchant that was active on its website at 
the time of the payment.  
Contributory negligence 
In this case, I do not think that Mr C was to blame for what happened. That is, he did not 
foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm. I do not think Mr C couldve foreseen the 
risk that the company he was dealing with was a scam. Therefore, in the circumstances, I do 
not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that Mr C should share blame 
for what happened.
Putting things right
So, Im satisfied John Lewis needs to refund Mr C with the money hes lost to this scam.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. I therefore propose that John 
Lewis Financial Services Limited: 
Pay Mr C all the money he lost (totaling £756.21)  including any transaction fees  
within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus 
Interest (less any tax properly deductible)  either (i) at the simple rate of 8% per 
year on the payment from the date it was paid to the date of settlement; or (ii) if the 
account accrued interest because the relevant statement balances were not paid in 
full, interest should be paid at the rate actually charged for that payment from the 
date Mr C reported the fraud to John Lewis. 
Should an outstanding balance be owed on Mr Cs credit card account relating to the 
payment to the merchant and/or interest on that payment, John Lewis is entitled to 
repay this balance first from the settlement outlined in the bullets above. 
If John Lewis deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award, it should 
provide Mr C with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman