DRN-4468327
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mrs W bought solar panels and a boiler in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the supplier 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mrs W alleges that the supplier misled her into 
believing that the solar panels would be self-funding in that their benefits (through income 
and savings) would cover the monthly loan repayments from the start. 
Mrs Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She recommended the 
complaint be upheld. Shawbrook disagreed, so I was asked to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold this complaint. 
Neither Shawbrook nor Mrs W provided any further comments or information by the deadline 
given. So, this final decision is in line with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Act says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
I have the power to look at this complaint about whether Shawbrooks response to a Section 
75 claim was fair and reasonable. In doing so, I can take into account the representations of 
the supplier during the sale, because Section 56 of the Act says that any negotiations 
between Mrs W and the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an 
agent of the credit provider.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im do not uphold this complaint.
Mrs W has said she initially approached the supplier about buying a new boiler but was 
persuaded to buy solar panels as well. I think it is unlikely that she wouldve purchased the 
solar panels without some discussion of their benefits. The supplier produced a table of 
estimated benefits of the solar panels at the time, a copy of which I have seen. And I think it 
is likely this wouldve formed the basis of the discussion  even though Mrs W doesnt recall 
seeing the table.
The table shows the basic (or cash) price of the solar panel system excluding the cost of the 
boiler. It then sets out estimates of the Feed-In Tariff (FIT) income and electricity savings 
that the system may provide over 20 years. In doing so it shows the assumptions this is 
based on, including FIT tariff and electricity unit rates, and the percentage rate by which 
these might increase each year (inflation).
I do not think the assumptions used were unreasonable. So, I would not say it was a 
misrepresentation simply because the actual benefits realised are less than shown in the 
quote.
I understand that the system is generating electricity as expected and the FIT income at the 
start was in line with the amounts shown in the table. That inflation hasnt matched the 
assumptions used initially means that the FIT income over time is less than shown in the 
table. But I dont think that means there was a misrepresentation. And Im mindful of recent 
high inflation meaning that FIT rates may catch up or overtake the suppliers predictions as 
time passes.
Electricity savings are hard to quantify, since the savings are relative to what Mrs Ws 
electricity bills wouldve been if the solar panels hadnt been installed  something which 
cant be definitively calculated. Alongside that, the savings are dependent upon how Mrs W 
uses electricity in the home, which is beyond the suppliers control. So, I dont think the 
savings could be, nor were they, guaranteed even in the first year after installation. But, 
given the assumptions used to calculate the savings do not appear unreasonable, I am not 
persuaded there was a misrepresentation on the part of the supplier.
I think it is unlikely that the supplier said the system would be self-funding from the start in 
that the income and savings would cover the monthly loan repayments (Mrs Ws allegation). 
I say this because the first-year benefits shown in the table (£618.22) do not exceed the first 
years loan repayments (£900.24).
And while the table suggests Mrs W may have been told the system would be self-funding 
within the loan term or within its lifetime (the total benefits exceeding the cash price and the 
total payable under the loan agreement within 15 years  even including the part of the loan 
that covered the boiler), I dont think this was a misrepresentation. Firstly, because saying 
the system would be self-funding within the loan term was based on reasonable 
assumptions. And secondly because even though the savings may not have been as much 
as shown in the table, the combination of income and savings over the lifetime of the system 
are still likely to exceed what Mrs W paid for it including loan interest.
While Ive carefully considered Mrs Ws testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what she was likely told at that time. So, on balance, I am 
not persuaded there was a misrepresentation on the part of the supplier. As such, I dont 
think Shawbrook was unreasonable in not upholding Mrs Ws claim or complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman