DRN-4123497
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) for increasing their 
insurance premiums following a claim which was not their fault. They want Ageas to amend 
their policy premium to remove the loading that has since been applied. 
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H live in an area where homes have their own external fuel tanks. They insure 
their home with Ageas. 
In Summer 2021, Mr H and Mrs H noticed the smell of kerosene at the boundary of their 
property. They alerted their neighbour. Over the following months the neighbour 
commissioned an inspection of their fuel tank and was advised to replace it. They did so, 
and evidence of corrosion was found, but there was no evidence identified of an active leak 
or an immediate risk of leak. 
In the meantime, the ground at Mr H and Mrs Hs property had become substantially 
contaminated with kerosene. The submitted a claim to Ageas, who also insured the 
neighbouring property. 
Ageas processed the claim and works were undertaken to remove the contamination. The 
claim ultimately cost around £70,000. Mr H and Mrs H paid their claim excess and hoped 
that the claim would be recouped from their neighbour, as it appeared likely that the leak had 
come from the neighbouring property. 
Ageas was unable to recoup the costs of the claim from the neighbour and advised that 
liability had not been accepted and it had not demonstrated negligence on the part of the 
neighbour.
In the meantime, Mr H and Mrs H received their new home insurance premium. It had 
increased by more than 70% due to the claim. 
Mr H and Mrs H complained to Ageas. They felt that this was unfair as the escape of fuel 
had not been their fault, yet they were suffering ongoing consequences from the claim. 
Ageas sent its final response letter in early 2023. It did not uphold the complaint and 
explained that as no negligence had been demonstrated it was not able to recoup the costs 
of the claim and had to hold these costs against Mr H and Mrs Hs policy. 
Mr H and Mrs H were unhappy and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and did not recommend upholding the 
complaint. They considered that Ageas had acted reasonably in recording the claim. 
Mr H and Mrs H did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr H and Mrs Hs upset in respect of this matter, it must be very frustrating to 
have been caused the disruption of the decontamination works, and also the increased costs 
(both in the excess and the higher premium) when the escape of oil appears to have 
occurred from another property, and when it was outside of their control. 
Nonetheless, I agree with my colleagues view, and I do not uphold this complaint.
Mr H and Mrs H have set out very clearly their view that it is morally unfair for them to suffer 
consequences as liability was not accepted by the neighbour, but they feel it is likely that the 
escape of oil came from the neighbours fuel tank. They feel that the claim has limited their 
options to obtain alternative insurance and that they will have additional loading on their 
premiums for around 5 years.  
I understand this, and can fully appreciate their position, but the insurer appears to have 
acted appropriately in the circumstances. 
Ageas has explained that in order to recoup the costs of the claim from another policy, it 
would need to demonstrate legal liability. This may be through the neighbour accepting 
liability, or it being demonstrated that there was negligence on the part of the neighbour, 
which led to the escape of oil occurring.
In this case, there appears to have been a reasonable effort to investigate the cause of the 
leak, and Ageas has not been able to demonstrate negligence. The investigators were not 
able to find evidence of an active leak, and the neighbour replaced the tank which had signs 
of corrosion following advice. 
In such circumstances, Ageas is correct to say that it cannot recoup the costs of the claim, 
and so cannot remove them from Mr H and Mrs Hs claims history. 
I appreciate that this feels unfair, but it is the normal functioning of insurance, in much the 
same way that the insured person is not at fault when storm or flood damage occurs at their 
property, but they end up bearing the excess and increased premiums. 
Mr H and Mrs H feel that Ageas has not pursued vigorously the investigation of whether 
there was negligence, because as insurer to both neighbours it makes no difference to 
Ageas which neighbour bears the losses. I understand that view, but I consider that Ageas 
has provided an adequate explanation of the investigations it has undertaken and the 
evidence it found and did not find. 
As a result, whilst I appreciate that this will be disappointing to Mr H and Mrs H, I do not 
consider that Ageas has acted wrongly in applying a loading to their new premium, and I do 
not uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint and do not ask 
Ageas Insurance Limited to do anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman