DRN-3057102
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund disputed transactions made from her 
account and shed like these refunded. 
What happened
Miss B says that fraudulent transactions were carried out on her Lloyds account between the 
2 and 7 October 2019 via online banking and chip and PIN transactions on her debit card.  
She explained that the last time she used her card was on the 2 October 2019 and on 
checking her online banking on the 4 October 2019 she noticed a number of disputed 
transactions. Miss B explained that she noticed her phone was acting strangely and she was 
advised by her phone provider that her SIM had been cloned. 
On the 4 October 2019 Miss B complained to Lloyds about several online transfers she 
didnt make. And a few days later she advised the bank of disputed debit card transactions.  
Lloyds upheld Miss Bs complaint in part for poor customer service theyd provided when 
investigating Miss Bs case and the bank credited her £124 in compensation. The bank 
accepted that theyd failed to reset Miss Bs online banking when she contacted the bank on 
the 4 October 2019 and further online transactions were carried out. However, because 
these payments were made to Miss Bs family members they asked her to recover them 
herself which Miss B was able to do successfully.  
Lloyds, decided not to refund the outstanding disputed transactions. The bank said there 
was no evidence of fraudulent activity. They thought Miss B had authorised the transactions 
or made them herself. 
Ms B wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary they 
thought that Miss B didnt authorise the disputed transactions but on balance shed acted 
with gross negligence because shed kept her PIN next to her card. 
Miss B didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In response she said:
She didnt write her PIN down and leave it in her bag
A new device was set up using a phone and number that she doesnt own
The new device shouldnt have been set up without her authorization
A new investigator looked into Miss Bs complaint, and reached a different conclusion. They 
thought that Miss B first noticed her debit card was missing when she was in hospital, and 
there was a possibility that her PIN was written down on a post it note. Overall, they thought 
that Miss B didnt authorise the card present transactions and asked Lloyds to refund almost 
£1,750 plus 8% interest. 
The bank didnt accept our investigators view. In response Lloyds said:
Miss B confirmed that a payment for £1,800 prior to the disputed transactions was 
genuine. This payment was made using the same new device as the disputed online 
banking transactions. 
Miss B received a text message to her mobile number to confirm the new device was 
setup. 
Miss B didnt report the disputed transactions as quickly as youd expect considering 
the time she first logged in. 
Theres no evidence of a PIN compromise and if Miss Bs SIM was cloned the 
fraudster would have needed to return the SIM to Miss Bs phone after it was 
removed which seems unlikely. 
As Lloyds didnt agree, it was passed to me for a decision. 
On reviewing Miss Bs complaint I came to a different conclusion to our investigator and 
issued my provisional decision to Miss B and Lloyds asking for their response and any 
comments.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments. 
Miss B didnt accept my decision. In summary she said:
She doesnt understand where the evidence proving her number has been cloned 
has gone.
She doesnt want to provide evidence which shows she was in hospital at the time of 
the disputed transactions and has previously been advised this wouldnt be a 
problem.
Shes advised the West Midlands police about the dates and times of the 
transactions in Birmingham to allow for CCTV to be obtained. Miss B questions why 
this hasnt been taken into consideration by the ombudsman. 
After complaining to Lloyds someone was still moving her money around  this 
shows that Lloyds or someone who has links to them was involved in the fraud. 
The fraudster must have seen the previous payments/references to Miss Bs brother 
and tried to make it look like a family member was carrying out the fraud. 
Lloyds allowed a new phone and number to be set up without her consent and didnt 
contact her. 
She didnt receive a text message or any calls to authorise the payments.
As Miss B didnt accept my provisional decision Ive considered her response and reviewed 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Generally, Lloyds can hold Miss B liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Miss Bs online banking details, genuine 
card and PIN were used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to 
this case  the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and Consumer Credit Act 1974 - say that 
is not, on its own, enough to enable Lloyds to hold her liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss B consented to the 
transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude that Miss B 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The disputed withdrawals were made using Miss Bs genuine card and PIN, but theres 
no convincing explanation for how a third party could have known her PIN. Miss B 
initially advised our service that she wrote her PIN down and saved it in her purse, 
however more recently shes informed our service that she doesnt think her PIN was 
recorded anywhere and shes not shared it with anyone. For this reason Im unable to 
find a plausible explanation for how her PIN was compromised. 
Miss B explained that she last saw her debit card when she was in hospital. And she 
couldnt have carried out the disputed transactions because she was admitted at this 
time. However Miss B hasnt provided any evidence to support this. Even if Miss B did 
provide this evidence, she doesnt need to have physically carried out the transactions to 
be held liable. Miss B would also be held liable if she consented for someone else to 
carry them out. 
Some of the disputed transactions were carried out online. This means that a fraudster 
would have needed access to Miss Bs online banking details without her knowledge. 
Miss B advises that her online log in details were saved in text messages on her phone 
but nobody has access to this  and shed not shared these details with anyone. 
Miss B has also explained that she thinks her SIM card was cloned, because of the way 
her phone was acting including a flashing screen, which is how a fraudster managed to 
gain access to her online banking details. However, usually when a SIM card is cloned 
the customer wouldnt receive text messages or phone calls and Miss B has made no 
mention of this problem. Miss B advises that she posted our service a compact disc from 
her mobile phone provider which details information about how her phone was 
compromised. Unfortunately Ive not seen this evidence, and therefore Im unable to 
consider this in my investigation.   
A new device was registered to Miss Bs account, on the 2 October 2019, prior to the 
disputed transactions. However, Ive seen evidence from Lloyds that text messages were 
sent to Miss Bs mobile number to enable the registration  and a four digit code was 
entered successfully. I cant see how a fraudster would have been able to obtain the four 
digit code without Miss Bs knowledge. 
On the 3 October 2019 Miss B called Lloyds to confirm some transactions were genuine 
 this included an online transfer of £1,800 made between her two Lloyds accounts in 
the early hours of the morning. Ive seen evidence from Lloyds that this online transfer 
was made via the new device used to carried out the disputed online transactions.  
On the 5 October 2019 Miss B explained that she deposited funds and immediately 
thereafter the money was transferred out. This means that a fraudster would need to 
have been monitoring Miss Bs account at exactly this point to carry out the activity. I find 
this unlikely. Miss B transferred money into her account just prior to the disputed transactions 
including a total of £2,400 on the 3 October 2019. 
On the 8 October 2019 disputed payments were sent to Miss Bs brother and cousins 
account. These have since been refunded. I accept that Lloyds failed to cancel Miss Bs 
online banking on the 4 October 2019, as they advised they would, however Id question 
why a fraudster would decide to transfer funds to Miss Bs family members.
I understand this will be disappointing to Miss B however taking everything into account, Im 
currently thinking of not upholding Miss Bs complaint and concluding on balance she 
authorised the disputed transactions. 
Miss Bs response to my provisional decision:
Miss B explained that she cant understand where the evidence which shows her SIM card 
was cloned has gone. In my provisional decision I explained that theres no evidence our 
service received a copy of the compact disc showing Miss Bs SIM card was cloned. I 
appreciate that Miss B is disappointed by this  however unfortunately I cant consider 
evidence that I havent seen.
Miss B responded to my provisional decision by advising that she didnt want to provide 
evidence she was in hospital at the time of the disputed transactions. And believes theres 
CCTV evidence showing she didnt complete some of the disputed transactions. In my 
provisional decision I explained that even if theres evidence showing Miss B was in hospital 
at the time of the disputed transactions, she doesnt need to have physically carried out the 
withdrawals to be held liable. It follows that even if I viewed CCTV demonstrating Miss B 
didnt carry out the withdrawals this wouldnt change my conclusions. 
In my provisional decision I agreed that Lloyds made an error in allowing access to Miss Bs 
online banking once theyd been notified that fraud had been committed. However as the 
transfers were made to Miss Bs brother and cousin Im not satisfied this error caused Miss B 
any loss. Miss Bs suggested that the fraudster saw previous payments to her brother on the 
account  and identified this by the reference Mum. And tried to implicate her family in the 
fraud. Ive considered this however I find this explanation unlikely. I cant see the benefit to a 
third party fraudster in moving funds to an existing payee  and would question why, if they 
still had access, they wouldnt remove the rest of Miss Bs funds. Which is something Id 
expect them to do. 
Miss Bs reiterated that she didnt receive any contact from Lloyds to authorise the new 
device, or any text messages or calls to authorise the payments. The evidence Ive seen 
from Lloyds shows that a text message was sent to Miss Bs mobile number to register the 
new device, and this code was entered successfully. Therefore Im afraid I cant agree with 
Miss B here. Ive not seen any evidence that Lloyds contacted Miss B to authorise any of the 
disputed transactions  however I wouldnt expect them to do so in this case considering the 
payments were carried out via Miss Bs online banking (using an authorised device) and chip 
and PIN payments. 
 
I understand this will be disappointing to Miss B however taking everything into account, Im 
satisfied on balance that Miss B authorised the disputed transactions. And Lloyds are 
entitled to hold her liable for them. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman