DRN-4450213
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Vacation Finance Limited (VFL) unfairly turned down their 
claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) relating to 
a loan they provided to them to purchase a timeshare product. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P were existing timeshare owners having purchased products from a supplier - 
who Ill refer to as A - in 2014. In or around November 2017, having attended a sales 
presentation with A, Mr and Mrs P decided to trade in their existing timeshare holdings 
against the purchase of specified timeshare units at a resort theyd previously used and were 
familiar with. The purchase price agreed was £42,560, with £25,000 funded by a loan from 
another business and £17,560 under a fixed sum loan agreement with VFL.
In or around November 2020, using a claims management company (the CMC), Mr and 
Mrs P submitted claims to VFL under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. In particular, the 
CMC alleged that A had misrepresented the product purchased by Mr and Mrs P by 
advising:
the product was of some substance  it is now clear it is worthless; and
the purchase would be an investment that would increase in value and could be sold 
at a considerable profit.
The CMC said that A have ceased to trade and have committed a repudiatory breach of 
contract. They believe that both the misrepresentations and the breach satisfy the criteria for 
a claim under section 75 of the CCA (S75).
They also said that the relationship between VFL and Mr and Mrs P arising out of the loan 
agreement, taken with the related purchase agreement with A, is unfair pursuant to section 
140A of the CCA (S140A). In particular, they said:
Mr and Mrs P was subjected to a high-pressure sales presentation;
A were acting as an agent of Mr and Mrs P and there was a breach of fiduciary duty
VFL deliberately chose not to disclose the fact that commission was paid to A, or the 
amount paid;
Mr and Mrs P werent presented with a choice of finance options; and
VFL failed to carry out a sound and proper credit assessment.
Shortly after submitting the claim and in the absence of a substantive response from VFL, 
the CMC referred Mr and Mrs Ps claims to this service as a complaint. 
During the course of this services investigations, VFL provided their response to the claims. 
Having considered the various allegations together with evidence from the time of the sale 
and their own records, VFL said that Mr and Mrs P didnt proceed with the loan agreed in 
November 2017. They said Mr and Mrs P had misunderstood the consequences of the 
proposed funding arrangements and no longer wanted to proceed on that basis. As a 
consequence, A had restructured the agreed purchase reducing the agreed price to 
£33,560. In turn, a new loan was agreed with VFL for £8,560. And this was the loan Mr and 
Mrs P decided to go ahead with.
Despite Mr and Mrs P claims relating specifically to the earlier (larger) loan, VFL did 
consider the allegations against the loan that was actually taken. Having done so, they didnt 
agree the product had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs P. Or that there was any 
evidence thered been a breach of contract. VFL didnt find anything that would lead them to 
uphold any other part of Mr and Mrs Ps claim.
One of this services investigators considered all the evidence and information provided. 
Having done so, they didnt think Mr and Mrs P had a valid claim under S75 as the purchase 
amount exceeded the limit permitted within that section of the CCA. Further, our investigator 
didnt think there was any evidence to suggest a court was likely to find the relationship 
unfair under S140A. They also didnt think there was anything to suggest the loan was 
unaffordable for Mr and Mrs P. And because of their findings, our investigator didnt think Mr 
and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld.
The CMC didnt accept our investigators findings and various exchanges followed in which 
they:
insisted all products sold by A were represented as an investment;
referred to a points-based timeshare product sold by A where it was alleged the 
ability to rent out and receive an income was regularly highlighted as part of the 
sales process;
referenced previous complaint outcomes relating to the financing of sales by A;
raised questions about the fairness of the contract terms where annual maintenance 
fees hadnt been paid;
provided a 36 page document containing Generic submissions on behalf of 
complainants specific to the points-based timeshare products sold by A; and
asked this service to obtain information and provide responses to questions about 
the procedures and policies that applied to the sale of loans with VFL for the 
purchase of timeshare products.
As an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Mr and Mrs Ps complaint has been passed 
to me to consider and reach a final decision. Having done so, while I reached a similar 
outcome to that of our investigator, Id addressed various aspects that I feel werent fully 
considered or explained previously. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 13 
October 2023  giving the parties the opportunity to respond to my findings before I reach a 
final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA2 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
and Mrs P paid for their timeshare product having financed it with a restricted use 
regulated loan from VFL, so ts possible S75 may apply here, subject to any 
restrictions and limitations.  Because of that, Ive taken this section into account when 
deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
2 Financial Conduct AuthorityS140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr P, Mrs P and VFL arising 
out of any credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And where 
the product purchased was funded under a credit agreement, its deemed to be a 
related agreement. Only a court has the power to make a determination under 
S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair 
and reasonable. 
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to whether I 
believe VFLs treatment of Mr and Mrs Ps claim was fair and reasonable given all the 
evidence and information available to me. This service isnt afforded powers to 
determine any legal claim itself. That is the role of the courts.
The FCAs DISP rules specifically relate to complaints about regulated financial 
products and services and provides rules and guidance about what this service is 
able to consider. It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines 
on any business. Its also not our role to ask a business to alter their policies or 
procedures or impose improvements on the level of service offered to their 
customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, 
the FCA. But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair 
and reasonable in the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in 
the individual circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps experience with them. 
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of 
an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not 
provide a legal service. And as Ive said above, this service isnt able to make legal 
findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings 
of an ombudsman, it doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Do Mr and Mrs P have a valid claim?
The original claim submitted by the CMC to VFL specifically refers to a purchase 
agreed on 22 November 2017 for £42,560 together with the associated loan. 
However, VFL have pointed out that this purchase didnt proceed, and the loan 
agreed wasnt drawn. So, it appears Mr and Mrs P may not have submitted a valid 
claim.
That said, VFL have explained the circumstances that led up to the changes in the 
purchase agreement and how they resulted in a new loan being agreed and taken by 
Mr and Mrs P. VFL have then gone on to consider the merits of Mr and Mrs Ps claim 
against the new loan agreed in December 2017. So, on that basis, I believe its 
reasonable I consider the fairness of VFLs response.
The claim for misrepresentation
S75(3) says that Subsection (1)3 does not apply to a claim  (so far as any claim 
relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not 
exceeding £100 or more than £30,000[]). The purchase price shown within the 
purchase agreement in November 2017 was £42,560. But as Ive already said, this 
3 In relation a misrepresentation or breach of contract.purchase didnt proceed. The subsequent purchase agreed in December 2017 was 
for £33,560. So, I dont believe a valid claim can be made under S75. But it is 
possible that any alleged misrepresentation could be considered under S140A if it 
was found to have resulted in an unfair debtor-creditor-supplier relationship.
The claim for breach of contract
Such a claim under S75 is also subject to the purchase price limit mentioned above. 
So, I also dont think theres a valid claim for breach of contract under that provision. 
Section 75A of the CCA (S75A) provides similar (although narrower) rights to S75 
and has a higher purchase price limit. Specifically, this section covers certain 
situations where theres evidence of a breach of contract - but not misrepresentation. 
Having considered that, I think Mr and Mrs Ps breach of contract claim could be 
considered under this provision.
However, VFL have said that whilst A may have entered an insolvency process, the 
current management company confirm that timeshare owners remain able to fully 
utilise their timeshare products subject to the associated agreements. So, in the 
absence of any specific explanation or evidence to support why Mr and Mrs P 
believes theres been a breach of contract which resulted in a loss for them, I havent 
seen anything that would lead me to conclude there was such a breach.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (VFL) and the debtor (Mr and 
Mrs P) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor). 
Misrepresentations
In determining if the relationship is unfair, the courts must have regard for any other 
thing done (or not done) by or on behalf of, the creditor4. I think the alleged 
misrepresentations are, therefore, relevant here. So, even though I think its likely 
they couldnt be considered under S75 due to the purchase price limitation, I thought 
they could still be considered under S140A5. Therefore, in trying to establish whether 
I think a court would likely find that an unfair relationship existed, Ive considered the 
alleged misrepresentations further in addition to the various other points raised by the 
CMC.
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by A in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that A made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product. In 
other words, that they told Mr and Mrs P something that wasnt true in relation to one 
or more of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the 
misrepresentations were material in inducing Mr and Mrs P to enter the contract. This 
4 Under S140A(1)(c) of the CCA
5 See Scotland & Reast v. British Credit Trust Limited [2014] EWCA Civ 790means I would need to be persuaded that they reasonably relied on those false 
statements when deciding to buy the timeshare product.
From the information available, I cant be certain about what they were specifically 
told (or not told) about the benefits of the product they purchased. It was, however, 
indicated that they were told these things. So, Ive thought about that alongside the 
other evidence available. Although not determinative of the matter, I havent seen 
any documentation which supports the assertions in Mr and Mrs Ps claim, such as 
marketing material or documentation from the time of the sale that echoes what they 
say they were told. In particular that the product purchased was represented as a 
financial investment.
I dont think the contract can have been marketed and sold as an investment contrary 
to The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 
2010 (the TRs) simply because there might have been some inherent value to Mr 
and Mrs Ps membership. And in any event, Ive found nothing within the evidence 
provided to suggest A gave any assurances or guarantees about the future value of 
the product purchased. A would had to have presented the membership in such a 
way that used its investment element to persuade Mr and Mrs P to contract. Only 
then would it have fallen foul of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain 
holiday products as an investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the TRs. 
Subsequent submissions to this service by the CMC appear to reference a points-
based product sold by A. But from the evidence Ive seen, I dont think this was the 
type of product Mr and Mrs P purchased as the documentation appears to relate to 
clearly defined accommodation and weeks rather than points.  
Ive also considered the 36-page Generic submissions document provided by the 
CMC. However, this also appears to relate to a points-based product sold by A rather 
than the product Mr and Mrs P actually purchased. And in any event, given the 
generic nature of the document, I dont think its helpful in establishing the specific 
facts of Mr and Mrs Ps own Purchase.
On balance, and in the absence of supporting evidence from the time of the sale, I 
therefore cant reasonably say, with any certainty, that A did in fact make the alleged 
misrepresentations. 
The pressured sale and process
The claim makes an allegation that Mr and Mrs P were subjected to a high-pressure 
sales presentation. 
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mr and Mrs P agreed to the purchase in 2017 when they simply 
didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that they went on to say 
something to A, after the purchase, to suggest theyd agreed to it when they didnt 
want to. And they havent provided a credible explanation for why they didnt 
subsequently seek to cancel the purchase within the 14-day cooling off period 
permitted here. 
If Mr and Mrs P only agreed to the purchase because they felt they were pressured, I 
find this aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen 
anything substantive to suggest they were obviously harassed or coerced into the 
purchase.  And because of that, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate they made the decision to proceed because their ability to exercise 
choice was  or was likely to have been  significantly impaired. 
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
[VFL] and matters relating to the debtor [Mr and Mrs P]).Mr and Mrs P already held an existing timeshare product theyd purchased previously 
from A. Importantly; the new purchase appears to relate to an upgrade and/or 
change to their existing timeshare product holding. It doesnt appear it was their first 
product purchase from A, and Mr and Mrs P werent new customers. So, its likely 
they wouldve benefitted from their previous experience and what might be expected 
from the meeting and sales presentation in 2017.
Whilst there could be potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations might 
have led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think any decision is likely to 
be taken within the context of their overall experience. And even if I was to find that 
some of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make no such 
finding  I think its unlikely this would lead to a court finding this led to a sufficiently 
extreme imbalance in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
As responsibilities and disclosure of commission paid
Part of Mr and Mrs Ps S140A claim is based upon the status of A (as the introducer 
of the loan) and their resultant responsibilities towards them. In particular, its argued 
that the payment of commission by VFL to A was kept from them. But I dont think the 
fact that VFL might have paid A commission was incompatible with their role in the 
transaction. 
A werent acting as an agent of Mr and Mrs P, but as the supplier of contractual rights 
they obtained under the timeshare product agreement. And, in relation to the loan, 
based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was As role to make an 
impartial or disinterested recommendation, or to give Mr and Mrs P advice or 
information on that basis. As far as Im aware, they were always at liberty to choose 
how they wanted to fund the transaction. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest VFL were under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is 
there any suggestion or evidence that Mr and Mrs P requested those details from 
VFL. VFL have said that no commission was paid. As I understand it, where 
commission is paid, the typical amounts paid by VFL to suppliers (like A in this case) 
was unlikely to be much more than 10%. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its 
likely that a court would find that any non-disclosure or payment of commission 
created and unfair debtor-creditor relationship under S140A, given the circumstances 
of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the purchase agreement
In subsequent submissions to this service, the CMC have suggested that some of the 
terms of the purchase agreement are unfair. Particularly where Mr and Mrs P have 
stopped paying annual maintenance fees under their contract. However, I cant see 
that this aspect formed part of the claim that was made. And because of that, I dont 
think this is something I can fairly consider here. That said, I believe VFL have 
acknowledged the current position and offered to discuss Mr and Mrs Ps current 
situation and circumstances so that a mutually acceptable resolution can be found. 
This approach feels fair in the circumstances here.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mr and Mrs Ps claim that could be considered outside 
of S75 and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether VFL undertook a proper credit 
assessment. The CMC allege a sound and proper affordability check wasnt 
completed.
Its relevant that the CMC havent provided any evidence to show that the loan was 
unaffordable or unsuitable for Mr and Mrs P. And Ive not seen anything that supports 
any suggestion of financial difficulty from that time. In their response to Mr and Mrs Ps claim, VFL explained to this service the 
affordability assessment theyd completed which they believe showed the loan was 
sustainably affordable for them.  If I were to find that the checks and tests completed 
by VFL didnt comply with the regulatory guidelines and requirements that applied  
and I make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been 
completed, they wouldve revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably 
affordable for Mr and Mrs P in order to uphold their complaint here. And in any event, 
I dont believe any compliance failure would automatically mean that their loan 
agreement was null and void. It would need to be shown that any such failure 
resulted in a loss to Mr and Mrs P as a consequence.
Ive seen no specific information about their actual position at the time and no 
supporting evidence that they struggled to maintain repayments. And VFL have 
confirmed that Mr and Mrs P maintained all repayments as they fell due without any 
suggestion of financial difficulty. Based upon these findings, I cant reasonably 
conclude the loan was unaffordable for them or that theyve suffered any loss as a 
consequence.
Summary
Whilst the original claims appear to relate to a loan that wasnt actually taken up, 
VFLs engagement in relation to the subsequent loan means that I think its fair I 
consider how this was handled and whether VFLs response was fair and 
reasonable. Thats what Ive done here. However, I havent found anything that 
persuades me that VFL have acted unfairly or unreasonably. And because of that, 
Im not currently inclined to ask them to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VFL havent acknowledged or responded to my provisional decision. The CMC have 
confirmed theyve received it and have shared its contents with Mr and Mrs P. But despite 
follow up by this service, they havent provided anything new for me to consider.
In the circumstances and having not seen anything that persuades me to vary from my 
provisional findings, my final decision remains unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman