DRN-3119342
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy about the delays and the compensation offered by Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc following their subsidence claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G noticed cracking to the walls at their home address. They made a claim to 
RSA and it appointed loss adjusters C to inspect and validate the claim. A meeting took 
place and Mr and Mrs G said they were told not to decorate their hallway to allow monitoring 
of the cracks. Mr and Mrs G said delays and poor communication occurred from the start. 
Some actions took place, but Mr and Mrs G felt they had to chase and ask for updates 
throughout as they didnt think any action was really taking place to conclude their claim.
The neighbours tree was removed prior to any ongoing claim work. Mr and Mrs G were 
clear that they expected RSA to let them know in advance of any correspondence with their 
neighbour but that didnt happen. Following the tree removal, the ground started to recover 
and caused some further damage. There were numerous changes of staff dealing with the 
claim and in the end feeling they were receiving conflicting reasons for the damage 
Mr and Mrs G complained. RSA accepted there had been some delays and a lack of 
communication. It offered Mr and Mrs G £200 as compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused regarding its complaint handling. Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy 
and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said RSA hadnt acknowledged how upset 
Mr and Mrs G were about the mistake of writing to their neighbour. Our investigator said 
Mr and Mrs G had to live with an undecorated hallway for too long along with the extra 
cleaning this entailed. There was an impact on their family life, and they were worried about 
the market value of their home if they tried to sell it. Our investigator accepted the changes 
of staff and lack of updates had an impact on Mr and Mrs G. But she also said RSA would 
issue a completion certificate regarding repairs so she couldnt say the market value would 
decrease. Overall, she felt RSA should increase its compensation award by a further £200.
RSA agreed to do this, but Mr and Mrs G didnt accept it and asked for their complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its final response letter RSA said There were delays at the beginning of your claim when 
you reported that the cracks had worsened however at this stage C had not decided if they 
were moving to the repair stage and as such Im unable to agree that this delayed the 
progress of your claim. Subsequently, Cs were happy to move your claim to repair stage in 
August 2019 however you had concerns over further movement and so C agreed to further 
site investigations and monitoring. RSA accepted that it had caused some delays but also 
pointed out that sometimes action couldnt move forward as Mr and Mrs G still had concerns. 
I think Mr and Mrs G would say this was because they didnt feel issues had been explained 
to them or there was a lack of clarity about what was going on due to a lack of 
communication.
In the same correspondence RSA also said I recognise there was a delay in setting up the 
monitoring at your property which was agreed to commence in November 2019 but this 
didnt commence until January 2020. Unfortunately, there was an issue with the initial 
instruction however in order to resolve this a consultant personally attended your property to 
take a reading to compensate for this delay. RSA again acknowledged there had been 
failings on its part regarding some delays.
Mr and Mrs G highlighted their concerns about their hallway and how they had to clean it 
more often along with the impact on their family life. So, I can understand why they were 
upset with the service they received. Mr and Mrs G said they would like RSA to pay for the 
redecoration of the hallway, even though RSA had concluded that the damage here was 
caused by thermal movement rather than by subsidence. As RSA has pointed out the 
hallway isnt part of the subsidence claim I wont be asking it to do the hallway redecoration.
Mr and Mrs G felt the timescales for dealing with the claim had hugely overrun. But I accept 
subsidence claims are more time consuming than pretty much all other types of home 
insurance claims. I think RSA has accepted and pointed out where the delays occurred.
In terms of communication its clear that Mr and Mrs G felt they had to chase up for action to 
occur. And they pointed out that on numerous occasions requests for updates and details 
went unanswered. To deal with the changes of staff RSA in the end put a lead advisor in 
charge of Mr and Mrs Gs case.
After the tree had been removed and the claim had started it was accepted that ground 
recovery caused further damage. Only when the experts said this was concluded did the 
repair work start. Linked to the repair RSA confirmed that a certificate would be issued to 
confirm repairs had been fully completed to the required standard. This is a standard 
procedure for such claims and I think thats reasonable.
RSA did attempt to put matters right when it offered £200 as compensation and Im pleased 
to note that it accepted our investigators view to increase the amount to a total of £400. It 
was clear that the £200 originally offered was really in relation only to the way RSA had 
handled Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. That isnt something I can take account of as complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity. So, I wont comment any further on that issue.
But regarding all the issues caused, including the poor communication, the changes of staff 
and the delays I think the £200 suggested by our investigator is a fair and reasonable 
outcome in relation to this complaint. Its clear there has been an impact on Mr and Mrs G 
and this has caused them distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
Pay a further £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Pay a further £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr and Mrs G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman