The complaint
Mr W, who is represented by a third party, says he was mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a store card in July 2003. He says the PPI was added to the store 
card without his knowledge and it was never explained to him. He also says he didnt need 
the cover. 
The credit facility was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a change in the 
company which is now responsible for answering these types of complaint. The company now 
responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer to AXA throughout this final 
decision.  
What happened
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Mr W disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate he will be
disappointed, so Ill explain carefully why this is.
Mr Ws card account was taken out by filling out an application leaflet in the store. PPI was 
added on to the store card account and Mr W says he wasnt told the PPI would be added. 
Weve seen a number of very similar PPI sales with the same retailer from around this time. 
Weve also spoken at length to the companies involved to gain an understanding of the 
processes that were generally used. We know, for example, that consumers were asked to fill 
out a card account application which was part of a wider leaflet-based form. The terms and 
conditions of the PPI were included in what the applicant was given to complete.
Im further helped by having to hand the actual form and credit agreement Mr W filled out 
when he took out his card. Theres a section on the application leaflet about the PPI that 
invited him to sign his name in a box to buy PPI cover. He could have left it blank in which 
case PPI would not have  been added. There was an indication that there would be a cost 
involved as the form said that the monthly premium would be added to Mr Ws new card 
account. Mr W signed at this point and therefore agreed to the PPI.
DRN-1932760This is what we call a non-advised sale. This means AXA needed only to provide enough 
clear information for Mr W to decide for himself whether he wanted the PPI cover. I think  
AXA could have set out the information about the PPI in a better way, but overall, I think 
its likely that Mr W would still have gone ahead and bought the policy anyway. 
Mr W didnt tell us about his employer benefits. But even if he had some benefits available 
 which, given his length of employment could be up to 3 months pay if he couldnt work
due to accident and sickness, it doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. Mr W
was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in
some of these policies.
The cost of the PPI offered was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered 
gave more protection than most credit cards. For example, if hed become unable to work 
or lost his job, the PPI would have paid off 15% of his outstanding store card balance 
each month until he returned to work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These 
benefits would have been in addition to any other means Mr W had in place at the time. 
And whilst Ive seen that Mr W could have relied on friends and family for help - and thats 
something thats good to have -  it very much depends on individual circumstances, which 
can easily change.
Ive also taken on board what Mr W has said in response to our adjudicators view. Whilst I 
recognise its a difficult time for consumers and Im really sorry to have to give Mr W this 
news. But I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman