DRN-3418611
The complaint
Mrs H complains that she was mis-sold a Silver Added Value Account (SAVA) in 2009 by 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H complains that she only opened a fee-paying SAVA because Lloyds told her it would 
improve her credit score and help her to get a mortgage which she says was not the case.
Lloyds says that it didnt tell her that as its staff knew that a credit score is based on a 
persons financial record and is not affected by the type of account the person holds. Lloyds 
says that it recommended the SAVA to Mrs H and she opened it after considering the 
information about the costs and benefits it gave to her.
Both parties agree there was a conversation in a branch during the sale. I wasnt there so I 
cant know what was said. I can only base my decision on the information available to me 
today.
Lloyds has provided a copy of the welcome pack Mrs H acknowledges she received. It does 
not mention the SAVA improving credit scores or enabling an account holder to get a 
mortgage anywhere. If increasing her credit score had been the only attractive element of 
the SAVA to Mrs H and she couldnt see it mentioned in the benefits part of the welcome 
pack, I think its more likely than not that she would have queried this at the time.
Also, Mrs H had the SAVA from 2009 to 2021, when she closed it. Lloyds has provided 
evidence that during that time Mrs H didnt take out a mortgage with Lloyds. And she could 
have closed the account at any time but didnt for more than ten years.
So, while I dont doubt Mrs Hs honest recollections and those of her relative who she says 
was also in the meeting, I think its more likely than not that Mrs H knew she had a choice 
whether to take out the SAGA and she chose to do so based on the cost and benefits of the 
SAVA and not because Lloyds said it would improve her credit rating.
Both parties agree that Lloyds recommended the SAVA and advised Mrs H to take it out. So, 
Lloyds was required to ensure the SAVA was suitable for her and to provide her with enough 
information to make an informed decision whether to buy it.
And I think its more likely than not Lloyds did.
I say this because at the time of sale Mrs H had a mobile phone, a car and travelled 
regularly into Europe.
Mrs H registered her mobile phone for the SAVA insurance cover shortly after the sale. She 
was automatically covered by the SAVA for car breakdown and travel insurance so each 
time she drove her car and went on holiday in Europe, Mrs H was covered by the SAVA 
whether she needed to make a claim or not.
Mrs H says she had alternative provision, but it was for her to arrange to ensure she did not 
have duplicate cover. 
So, I think its more likely than not the SAVA was suitable for her.
Mrs H says she received the welcome pack and she used some of the benefits, so I think 
she had enough information about the SAVA to make an informed decision about it, and I 
cant see anything that Lloyds didnt tell Mrs H about the product that would have put her off 
buying it.
So, although I know Mrs H will be disappointed, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds 
didnt do anything wrong in the sale of the SAVA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman