DRN-4508114
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund £2,006 he lost to a Home 
Office impersonation scam in January 2022.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr B fell victim to a Home Office impersonation scam, where 
he was told he would need to pay a series of immigration fees or he would face being 
arrested.
Mr B made payments of £1,504.50 and £501.50 on 27 January 2022 using his HSBC debit 
card. The payments were made to his Wise account, where the money was subsequently 
sent on to the scammer. He also made several faster payments from his HSBC account to 
different payees, which have since been refunded and considered as part of a different 
complaint.
Mr B complained to this service, as he was under the impression that the bank had issued a 
full refund of all payments. However, it transpired that the £2,006 refunded into his account 
was only a temporary credit while it raised a chargeback dispute about the debit card 
payments. 
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC has re-debited the £2,006 after the chargeback was 
unsuccessful and thinks it should refund the money, as it didnt do enough to protect him 
from falling victim to the scam. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He noted that HSBC had spoken to Mr B 
about one of the payments he was making as part of the scam but didnt think it could have 
done anything more to prevent his loss as Mr B was dishonest when he was questioned 
around what he was doing. Mr B disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
It isnt in dispute that Mr B authorised the disputed card payments he made to Wise using his 
HSBC debit card. The payments were requested by him using his legitimate security 
credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the 
instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr B from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. 
It isnt in dispute that the payments Mr B made as part of the scam on 27 January 2022 were 
considered unusual, given one of the faster payments that took place prior to the card 
payments was blocked pending further enquiry. So, while the card payments themselves 
were not questioned, HSBC nonetheless had an opportunity to prevent the payments being 
made to the scammer. Accordingly, it just a question of whether its intervention went far 
enough in all the circumstances.
When HSBC spoke to Mr B on 27 January 2022, he told the bank that he was sending 
money to a friend, as he said hed been told to mislead the bank by the scammer. HSBC 
then proceeded to ask him questions about the friend he was sending money to, such as 
how he got the details, whether he knew the friend personally, and if hed confirmed the 
payment details with them verbally. He also told HSBC that he had not been contacted by 
anyone forcing or threatening him send the money, and he also said he had not been told to 
mislead the bank, despite this being exactly what he had been told to do.  
Having considered the questions HSBC asked during its intervention  as well as the 
responses given by Mr B  Im not persuaded there was anything further the bank could 
have done to have prevented the payments being made to the scammer. Mr B said that he 
had not been instructed to make the payment and had not been told to mislead the bank, all 
of which was not true. 
It was based upon the answers Mr B gave that HSBC was satisfied the payment wasnt likely 
being made as part of a scam and was going to one of Mr Bs friends. I think HSBC asked 
appropriate questions of Mr B, which were ultimately led by the answers he gave. If he had 
answered the questions accurately and said he was in contact with someone claiming to be 
from the Home Office, who was telling him to lie to the bank, then I accept it would have 
been incumbent on HSBC to maintain suspicion about the payment and probe further into 
the circumstances. But seeing as Mr B was not forthcoming with these details, I dont think 
there was any failing on the HSBCs part to probe any further into how he came to be 
making the payment, as he had confirmed on more than one occasion that he had not been 
asked or threatened by anyone to make it.
So, in these circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold HSBC 
liable for the disputed card transactions, because it seems more likely than not that Mr B 
would have always made the payments to the scammers, notwithstanding any intervention 
made by the bank. 
I appreciate that HSBC refunded the faster payments Mr B made as part of the same scam, 
which was considered as part of a separate complaint. But that doesnt mean it is obliged to 
refund the debit card payments under this complaint, as the faster payments were 
considered under a different set of considerations (the Contingent Reimbursement Model), 
which does not apply to debit card transactions. 
I also understand that Mr B is unhappy that HSBC only provided a temporary refund as part 
of a chargeback claim. Given Mr B had disputed the card payments he made to Wise, I dont 
think HSBC acted unreasonably by raising a chargeback claim, even if there were limited 
prospects of such a claim succeeding. It told him on 30 April 2022 that a temporary refund of 
both card payments had been provided, and that this might be reversed depending on the 
outcome of the chargeback claim. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong by 
subsequently re-debiting the temporary credit when the chargeback was not successful.  Overall, while I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mr B, Im not persuaded 
HSBC has done anything wrong here, or that it can fairly or reasonably be held liable for 
Mr Bs loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman