DRN-2900818
The complaint
Mr W complains about the administration of his investments by The Prudential Assurance
Company Limited, referred to as Prudential.
What happened
In my provisional decision of early June 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms 
part of this final decision, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to uphold the
complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think that Prudential dealt with the
administration of Mr Ws investments appropriately. In the circumstances, I also dont think
that the compensation offered by Prudential is reasonable.
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note Mr Ws strength
of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint,
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr W and Prudential, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and
reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice.
But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than
not to have happened.
In relation to the 841 plan, I note the default position, as per the terms and conditions, is that
Prudential would pay-out the value of the investment if it didnt hear from the investor.
However, in this instance, Prudential wasnt justified in doing so.
I note Mr W filled out the form as requested by Prudential, in good time, making reasonably
clear that he wanted. In the circumstances, I dont think there was anything more that he
couldve (reasonably) done to make his intentions known. I note he even followed up his
instructions with an email to Prudential that was left unactioned.
Although Prudential accepts that it made an error, I agree with the investigator that its
mistake has had a substantial and irreversible impact, so its now unable to reinstate the
plan as per Mr Ws instructions, and hes lost his tax status.
However, I note that Prudential has offered to reinstate a whole of life policy as an
alternative, backdated to March 2020 so he doesnt lose out. It has also offered to take out
an indemnity to cover any subsequent tax liability, which Mr W has agreed to. However, in
the circumstances, and on balance, I think Prudential should pay Mr W an additional £500
compensation  not £400 as originally offered  for the distress and inconvenience caused. I
think £500 is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The above notwithstanding, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr W
says, I think the recommendation to pay an additional £400 compensation for the numerous
additional errors and delays, in addition to what Prudential had paid  taken in the round  is
broadly fair and reasonable.
In other words, I agree with the investigators recommendation to pay an additional £400 
making a total payment of £1,311.24, including my recommendation  for the overall distress
and inconvenience caused by the numerous additional errors and delays, thats likely to
have compounded Mr Ws already significant distress and inconvenience caused.
This includes £411.24 already paid (with interest), for Prudentials errors in relation to
various matters, including the incorrect information being provided on 31 December 2020
and 4 January 2021, failure to include the form for the 794 plan, incorrect statements and
time taken to send them, and the delay in paying the £400 compensation offered. I note the
investigator provided Mr W with information in relation to this.
Im mindful that it took Prudential 10 months to re-instate the policy, and it has been over 10
months since Mr W asked for statements for the two plans and its only just provided a
corrected statement for the 794 plan. I also dont think it was right for Prudential to continue
to communicate with Mr W via email when he said he wasnt able to receive emails, such
that he didnt know the status of his plan until August 2020.
Im mindful of the points Mr W makes about the graphs, but on the face of the evidence, and
on balance, despite what he says in the circumstances, Im unable to safely say that
Prudential is responsible for the issues he experienced whilst accessing its site from a
library. I think its likely that the issues were more likely than not the result of his use of the
library internet service.
I also note what he says about the correspondence hes been receiving, but I dont think I
can blame Prudential for this. Given the general impact of Covid-19 on businesses and the
new ways of working, its likely that letters that Mr W refers to are printed and sent from a
different location. Not only that, but there are also likely to be issues with the postal service.
If thats the case, I cant blame Prudential for the actions of a third-party postal service.
In conclusion, I think Prudential quite rightly accepts that it made errors in dealing with Mr
Ws plans. Not only from the outset, but also after conceding its errors, which is why Mr W
has (understandably) lost confidence in Prudentials ability to deal with his issues.
Its principally because of these reasons, and the overall time taken to deal with (and rectify)
its numerous errors that I think the business should pay Mr W £900 compensation for the
overall distress and inconvenience caused, on top of the £411.24 it has already paid in
relation to the errors.
Despite my upholding this complaint, I appreciate Mr W might be unhappy that Ive not gone
far enough with the compensation. So, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But
on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I think £900 compensation  on top of
what it has paid  is overall fair and reasonable for this part of the complaint.
Prudential provided a copy of the new statement and the tax form. It had no new points to 
add. 
Mr W responded and made the following key points:Hed like to be sent the £500 as soon as possible. 
Hell then take his complaint to the Independent Assessor because I have ignored his 
instructions, which meant that no one was sent to Prudential to gather the information 
needed to make the correct decision. 
My decision contains statements, but none of the statements are backed by 
evidence.
He hasnt received the tax form. 
Hes received the relevant statement, its correct but its in a spreadsheet form  it 
shouldve been done by M&Gs program. 
This has caused an error on the statement, namely that 10.06.19 appears on the 
25.05.21 statement, and on the program statement of 10.06.19. 
This duplication wouldnt have occurred if M&Gs program had been used to produce 
the 25.06.21 statement. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
Notwithstanding the points made by Mr W, I dont consider that any new material points have 
been made. Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have been considered 
by me, in my provisional decision (PD). 
I dont consider it appropriate to send someone to Prudential to gather information. Im 
reasonably satisfied that I have all the information I need to make my final decision. 
I note that since issuing my PD, our service has forwarded a copy of the tax form (from 
Prudential) to Mr W, as requested. 
Mr W has also confirmed that the number of units in the last statement he received from 
M&G is correct, albeit not in the format that he wanted. At my request, Prudential will see if it 
can produce a statement using the M&G program.
Notwithstanding the observations made by Mr W, my decision remains the same. On the 
face of the evidence, and on balance, I still dont think that Prudential dealt with the 
administration of his investments appropriately. I also dont think that the compensation 
offered by Prudential is reasonable.
Putting things right
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should, if it hasnt already done
so, pay compensation and do the following:
Re-instate the 841 plan  as a whole of life policy  with a nominal £5 yearly premium 
with £136,348 worth of units.
Provide an indemnity to cover any tax arising from this, as a consequence of Mr W
losing his previous tax status on the plan as a result of Prudentials error. 
In total, pay Mr W £900 compensation for the significant distress and inconvenience
caused by its numerous errors.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should award redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman