DRN-1233714
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse his accountants fees.
What happened
Mr S runs a business. One of his bookkeepers duties is to chase late payments. This is a 
task, which she does frequently.
As hed had problems receiving paper statements, his bookkeeper attended the office to 
check the statements online. However, between August 2018 and October 2018 there were 
four occasions when the online statements werent available. But Mr S still had to pay for her 
attendance, even though she couldnt carry out any work.
He complained to Barclays and asked it reimburse his bookkeepers fees. He said the bank 
agreed to pay and he sent it the invoice.
Barclays refused to reimburse the fees. It said it hadnt agreed to do this. However, it 
acknowledged there was a delay in uploading a statement so it paid him £75 in 
compensation.
Mr S wasnt happy with Barclays decision, so he brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into his complaint but didn't think the bank had agreed to reimburse 
his bookkeepers fees. However, she considered that £75 was inadequate and 
recommended that Barclays pay an additional £100 for the trouble and upset caused to him.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view. He said its poor service resulted in him 
incurring professional fees for work which couldnt be completed and the bank had agreed to 
pay.
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S has had repeated problems with his bank statements. Ive no doubt this 
was frustrating for him.
He called the bank on 7 September 2018 because his bookkeeper couldnt see that weeks 
statement. The adviser explained that as hed previously requested monthly paper 
statements, the online statements had also changed to monthly. It was the banks policy to 
issue paper and online statements at the same frequency. He asked for weekly online 
statements. He told the adviser he needed the statement urgently. She told him he could request the statement via the secure messaging service and a response would be sent 
within 24 hours. 
He complained again in October 2018. It transpired that a statement generated on 17 
October 2018 was not uploaded until 21 October 2018. Barclays acknowledged it shouldve 
been available the next day so it paid him £75 compensation for the delay.
Mr S doesnt believe this is adequate compensation. He wants Barclays to reimburse him for 
his bookkeepers fees, which he had to pay, for days when she couldnt work.
However, there were other options available to Mr S. Barclays told him he could view the 
transactions on the account for the specified period using a transaction search function, or 
searching recent entries. It said it told him this back in 2017. The same suggestion was 
made when he called the bank in September 2018. It also offered to change the statement 
generation date to ensure the statements were available on Fridays, when his bookkeeper 
attended the office, but he declined this option.
I understand why Mr S and his bookkeeper would prefer to look at a statement. I think most 
customers would be more comfortable with a statement than a search function. But until 
such time as a statement was available, he had this other option and his bookkeeper 
couldve worked on the accounts. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to 
reimburse him for the bookkeepers fees if there were other options to work on the accounts.
I have noted that Barclays reimbursed his bookkeeper's fees in December 2017. This wasnt 
a formal arrangement. And even if the adviser asked him in 2018 to send in an invoice that 
only meant it would consider his claim. It wasnt an agreement to pay the fees.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr S but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
Putting things right
Clearly, Mr S has been put to the trouble and upset of making several calls to Barclays. I 
agree with the investigator's recommendation that Barclays offer of £75 compensation was 
inadequate. I think a total sum of £175 is a fairer reflection of the trouble and upset caused 
to him.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I'm partially upholding this complaint and I'm asking Barclays Bank 
UK PLC to pay a total of £175 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman