DRN-2872573
The complaint
Mrs V complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) incorrectly blocked her bank account causing 
her considerable inconvenience and stress, when trying to purchase a car. 
What happened
Mrs V says she travelled a long distance with her husband to buy a car they had seen 
advertised. Mrs V says she initially tried to make the payment through her mobile banking 
app and laptop, but these payments were rejected as it was past the cut off time. Mrs V says 
she was left with no option other than to book a hotel over 15 miles away and stay overnight. 
Mrs V says to avoid further complications she split the payment. After security checks were 
completed the first half of the payment went through but the second payment was blocked 
by HSBC despite numerous calls to them and promises from them the payment would be 
released. Mrs V says her bank account was blocked by HSBC and she was pregnant at the 
time, away from home during a Covid pandemic and the whole incident caused her 
considerable stress and inconvenience. Mrs V feels HSBCs offer of £60 for the upset 
caused doesnt go far enough to cover the extreme inconvenience she went through. 
HSBC have accepted there were some inconsistencies with the information their staff 
provided to Mrs V at the time she was trying to make the payments and have apologised for 
this. HSBC says even though Mrs V felt her bank account had been blocked this wasnt the 
case and she was still free to use her bank debit card during this time. HSBC says they are 
entitled to carry out their fraud checks to protect its customers interests and the payment did 
go through that same day, so Mrs V wasnt financially disadvantaged. HSBC feel the 
compensation payment of £60 they have made for the inconvenience caused, is fair.
 
Mrs V wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt while HSBC had made some errors, they are entitled to carry out fraud checks. The 
investigator felt their offer of compensation was fair. The investigator says that from the 
information he was provided with, Mrs Vs  bank account wasnt blocked, and she could have 
used her debit card if she had needed to.
Mrs V wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been a stressful time for Mrs V being away from home, 
pregnant, with the backdrop of a Covid pandemic and not being able to arrange the payment 
for a car purchase as quickly as she had hoped. When looking at this complaint, I will 
consider if HSBC acted reasonably when conducting the security checks it did, and whether 
their offer of compensation was fair in the circumstances. 
Mrs V provided this service with a comprehensive breakdown of the events at the time she 
attempted to make the payment to purchase the car. Although I havent commented on 
every point she has raised, thats not to say I havent considered these when coming to a full 
and impartial decision here.
The first thing to say is I have taken into account the fact this happened during the Covid 
pandemic which affected both businesses and customers alike. This would have no doubt 
added to the stress and worry Mrs V felt while pregnant and being away from home. Having 
said that, it was ultimately Mr and Mrs Vs decision to make the journey they did, so I cant 
hold HSBC responsible for that. Thats not to say Mrs V didnt experience stress and worry 
at that time, given this was a sizeable transaction. 
From the information I have seen the attempt to make the first payment to purchase the car 
was made on the evening Mr & Mrs V arrived at their destination, but this was just after 6pm, 
outside the cut off time for this type of payment. I can see this led Mrs V and her husband to 
decide to stay overnight to make the payment the following day. Mrs V then attempted to 
split the payment to avoid payment limits being exceeded and after initial security checks the 
first half of the payment went through. Mrs Vs complaint centres around the second 
payment she tried to make and its fair to say there were a number of telephone calls made 
between her and HSBC to get the payment released. While, like the investigator, I accept 
HSBC could have been more consistent in how they approached each of the telephone 
calls, its not my role to tell them how they should conduct their own security and fraud 
checks, after all they are in place to protects its customers, even if this caused some 
inconvenience to Mrs V on that day. 
Its also fair to say from the information HSBC have provided this service, I cant see a total 
block was placed on her bank account, as she thought. I realise Mrs V has said that this 
wasnt the case  but the evidence Ive seen would suggest that, she was free to use her 
debit card at any time. Although perhaps HSBC could have explained this a little more 
clearly on the day -  that may have reduced some of the stress Mrs V was experiencing. 
Its important to say the payment was made on the same day allowing the purchase to go 
through and while this was later than Mrs V had hoped for, I cant say she was financially 
disadvantaged as a result. Its not the role of this service to penalise banks like HSBC when 
mistakes are made or poor service takes place, but to see that matters are put right and I am 
satisfied this is what happened here - HSBC have apologised for any inconvenience and 
paid Mrs V £60 to recognise this, which is what I would expect to see here.  
While Mrs V will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of HSBC here. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman