DRN-2135377
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy in 1992 at the same time as they applied for a mortgage. 
It gave them accident, sickness and unemployment cover. The first 12 months cover was 
free, and they then paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Nationwide responded to their complaint saying as Mrs F wasnt eligible for the policy at the 
time of the sale it was upholding that part of the complaint and compensating her 
accordingly, in addition to refunding any commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premiums Mr and Mrs F paid. 
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy with this saying they didnt ask for PPI and it was unsuitable for 
Mr F too, so they brought their complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about the sale of the policy to Mr F. Ill 
explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs F had to
agree to take it out. They say they had no choice, they were told they had to have it to get 
the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs F selected a mortgage with a discounted fixed interest rate for a set period of
time. This was conditional on them taking out PPI. So I think its most likely they took out PPI 
to get the interest rate they wanted. It doesnt mean the PPI was mandatory - rather than it 
was mandatory to get a preferential mortgage rate. So if they hadnt wanted PPI, they could 
have selected a different mortgage product. Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs F 
said but overall, I think its most likely they selected and agreed to PPI to secure a 
discounted mortgage rate, knowing they had a choice of mortgages.
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs F, so it didnt have to check
the policy was right for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs F enough information so
they could decide for themselves whether they wanted to buy it. Its possible the
information Mr and Mrs F were given about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been.
But I dont think they wouldve been put off taking out cover if they had received better 
information. I say this because:
Mr F was eligible for the policy given his circumstances at the time and the policys 
terms and conditions.
He wasnt affected by any of the terms limiting the policys main benefits, such as
certain types of employment contract or pre-existing medical conditions. As he
couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mr F was entitled to three months sick pay and had savings worth three months 
salary. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to his work benefits and for much 
longer - up to 24 months. It would have allowed them to use any savings they had to 
cover other living expenses whilst Mr F wasnt working, or to keep them intact for 
their future needs. It also gave them up to 24 months redundancy cover. Mr F said 
the policy was too restrictive to be of use to them  when he was made redundant 
the waiting period was so long they didnt end up claiming. I can see the policy had a 
90-day deferral period, but Mr F had sufficient savings to cover this time period, so I 
think it would still have been useful if he was unemployed on a medium to long term 
basis given his circumstances. Mr and Mrs F were borrowing a large sum of money 
over a long period secured against their home. Given the serious consequences of 
missing mortgage payments, I think the PPI wouldve have been useful for Mr and 
Mrs F if Mr F was sick, had an accident or lost his job. And as they were paying 
monthly, they could cancel it if their situation changed or they no longer wanted it 
without incurring any further cost.
I dont know when the cost was first made clear, but the policy was apparently 
affordable and a reasonable cost for the benefit it offered.
So, in summary, I think its unlikely they wouldve made a different decision for Mr F if better
information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs F about that. Because Nationwide
didnt tell Mr and Mrs F, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has
already done this, in addition to the redress in relation to Mrs Fs part of the policy, so I dont 
award any further compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman