DRN-1548372
Complaint
Mrs F says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 Background
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. The policy was added to 
Mrs Fs credit card account when she applied for the credit card online.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Mrs F didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
In December 2019, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision, I explained 
that I didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Below is an extract of what I said:
"I think Capital One made it clear that Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it. Using what I know generally about Capital Ones online process at the time
of sale, Im satisfied that Mrs F would have been asked to select yes or no for the PPI. 
Capital One has provided our service with a copy of a screenshot from its internal records, 
which it says shows that Mrs F selected yes to the question about whether she wanted to 
take out the PPI. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that Mrs F 
agreed to the PPI, knowing she had a choice.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs F got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs F chose to take out 
the PPI, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions.
Mrs F has told she had two jobs at the time of sale  a full-time job which was her main 
source of income, and an evening job where she worked around 12 hours a week and 
provided her with a relatively small monthly income. As part of my assessment of Mrs Fs 
complaint, Ive thought about whether this would have made a difference to the outcome. I 
dont think it does. Having reviewed the policy terms, I dont think Mrs Fs evening job would 
have impacted on her ability to make a claim for anything related to her full-time job. So it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable.
Mrs F has told us she would have received six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us that she had some 
savings which she could have used to help cover her credit card repayments.Having thought about what Mrs F has said about her sick pay, I dont think this means she 
wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mrs F would have received from her employer and would have 
potentially paid out for up to 12 months. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mrs F was 
made redundant or in the unfortunate event of death.
Ive also thought about what Mrs F has said about her savings. She said she had around
£10,000 which she was planning on using for travelling. While I accept that Mrs F may have 
had a significant amount of savings at the time of sale, I cannot ignore that these funds were 
earmarked for something other than general spending. So, I dont think the savings she held 
shows that she didnt need the PPI.
So overall, I think Mrs F could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold."
My Findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As Ive not received any new evidence, 
Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for the same 
reasons.
My Final Decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
Mrs F's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman