DRN-2922382
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC held him liable after over £47,000 was 
transferred from his savings account.
What happened
Mr M had a savings account with Barclays. But in 2018 someone opened a current account 
with Barclays in Mr Ms name and transferred his savings into this new account  and spent 
them. Between February 2018 and December 2018, £47,402.00 was transferred from Mr 
Ms savings account, leaving the account with just £14.73. 
Mr M says he knew nothing about this current account  and only found out when he 
contacted Barclays to check his balance in October 2018.
Barclays looked at this. It thought Mr M was aware of the account and was responsible for 
the transactions. It also decided to close all Mr Ms other accounts held with it. Dissatisfied, 
Mr M complained to Barclays. Barclays agreed to pay £200 to reflect the service Mr M had 
received, but thought its decision about the disputed transactions were right.
Our investigator looked at this and thought that what Barclays had done was fair. Mr M didnt 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres disagreement about what happened, I need to decide whats most likely, on 
the balance of probabilities.
I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied a third party had access to Mr Ms account. It looks as 
though this third party arranged for a salary to be paid into this account and used the 
account for everyday spending. But this also gave the third party access to Mr Ms savings, 
and over February and March in particular I see that £46,900 was transferred from the 
savings account to the current account. It appears these funds were then transferred to other 
accounts not held with Barclays or spent at casinos.
That does not, however, necessarily mean that Barclays needs to refund these disputed 
transactions. I need to consider whether Mr M authorised these transactions. This would 
include where the account was being used with Mr Ms permission.
Based on what Mr M has told us, it appears the person using the account was a relative of 
his. Mr M has gone to some lengths to try and persuade us and Barclays that he wasnt 
particularly close to this relative  he describes the relationship as distant. But I dont find 
this plausible. From what Ive seen, Mr M in fact has very significant financial connections to 
this relative.
In particular, the property to which this current account was registered was at one point 
owned by Mr M. And Mr M had at one point lived in this property. It appears there was an 
arrangement between Mr M and his relative by which Mr M would own the property on trust 
for his relative.
Indeed, as part of its investigation Barclays discovered that Mr M had in fact applied for a 
mortgage on the property in 2018 using his normal home address and the same identity 
documents Mr M produced when Barclays investigated the possible fraud on Mr Ms 
account. The proceeds of this mortgage were paid into the current account which forms part 
of this complaint on 6 June 2018.
Barclays has also sent us copies of the documents Mr M used to open his savings account 
in 2014. This includes bank statements showing large payments to his relative. Mr M has 
previously told us that although his relative owned the property, payments relating to the 
property were at that time made into a building society account in Mr Ms name.
All of this suggests that there were significant links between Mr M and his relative. Based on 
what Mr M has said, he had in the past allowed his relative to transfer money through his 
account. And it appears Mr M was allowing money to be borrowed in his name even though 
he says his relative was the ultimate owner of the property. All of this seems at odds with the 
distant relationship Mr M implied between him and his relative when he explained the 
situation to both us and Barclays.
Mr M has also told us that at some point he was sent the wrong paying in book  which 
means he accidentally paid a cheque of £905.66 into the current account. But this suggests 
that Mr M was receiving some correspondence in connection with this account  and 
therefore would have been aware of it  even though the address had changed to one he 
claims he wasnt using.
Given all the above, I dont find Mr Ms explanation of what happened plausible or 
persuasive. And in that light, I think the most likely explanation is that Mr M allowed his 
relative to set up and operate the current account. Based on what Mr M has said, hes 
allowed his relative to transfer funds through his account before. Mr M had previously 
allowed money to be borrowed on this property in his name. Its plausible hed do this sort of 
thing again  especially for the same individual.
But the current account came with online banking and this meant that whoever had access 
to the current account would also have access to Mr Ms savings. It also meant they could 
manage both accounts by telephone banking. I dont doubt that Mr M didnt intend the 
savings to have been withdrawn in this way. But as Ive concluded that Mr M most likely 
allowed his relative to set up the account and online banking, I dont think Barclays can fairly 
be held liable for this.
But Barclays has offered £200 for the administrative errors that occurred while they 
completed their investigation. This appears to be a fair outcome to Mr Ms complaint. I make 
no further award.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank PLCs offer of £200 is fair. It 
should pay this to Mr M if it hasnt already. I make no further award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman