DRN-3070883
The complaint
Mr K1 and Mr K2, who are in partnership, complain that Russell Meers & Gill LLP (RMG) 
mis-sold them their commercial motor insurance policy. They want it to reimburse them for 
their losses.
What happened
A van belonging to Mr K1 and Mr K2 was destroyed by fire. The insurer paid their claim but 
the limit for the vans contents was £5,000. Mr K1 and Mr K2 said the vans contents were 
worth £30,000. Mr K1 and Mr K1 were unhappy with the level of cover in the policy sold by 
RMG. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. RMG had sold and 
renewed the policy for seven years. The initial point of sale information wasnt available due 
to the passage of time. So he looked at the last three policy renewals. He thought the level 
of cover was clearly stated and Mr K1 and Mr K2 were asked to review this to ensure it was 
accurate and adequate. He thought it was for Mr K1 and Mr K2 to assess the level of cover 
needed. So he thought RMG hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr K2 replied that he thought RMG should have advised them on the level of cover needed. 
He said that his new broker had advised them on the levels of cover needed for different 
equipment. He asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K2 has explained the impact the lack of adequate cover had on his business. I was sorry 
to hear about this. And I can understand that this must be a difficult and frustrating situation. 
But I cant say that RMG mis-sold the policy or that it hasnt met its responsibilities as a 
broker. Ill now explain why I think this. 
The sale of the policy was advised by RMG. So Ive looked to see whether it gave Mr K1 and 
Mr K2 sufficient advice to ensure that the policy met their needs. The first point of sale was 
many years ago with the policy being renewed annually. So I cant see what was initially 
discussed. 
But I can see from RMGs records that Mr K2 did contact it regularly to update some of his 
cover requirements, such as when they changed premises or vehicles on the policy. I can 
also see that at the last renewal RMG provided two options for Mr K2 to choose between. So 
I think there was contact between the partnership and RMG and Mr K2 understood his 
responsibilities to update his cover requirements. 
Mr K2 thought RMG should have met with them to advise them on the level of cover needed. 
He said that their new broker has done this remotely. I agree that this would be a good level 
of service. And it may have prompted Mr K1 and Mr K2 to look at the level of cover they 
needed to be fully insured. 
But I cant say that RMG were required to do this as brokers. I agree with RMG that it was 
for Mr K1 and Mr K2 to assess the value of their assets and ensure that they had the level of 
cover that met their needs. RMG wouldnt have known the value of the vans contents unless 
it had been told. And I cant see that Mr K2 asked for this to be increased.
I think RMG reasonably explained their responsibilities to Mr K1 and Mr K2 at each renewal 
since 2014. Looking at the cover letter for the last policy renewal, I can see that it asks them 
to, 
check the documents carefully to ensure that the cover provided fully meets your cover 
requirements, needs and demands.
I can see that this is repeated on the policy schedule. So I think it was made clear to Mr K1 
and Mr K2 that they needed to check the policy to ensure that the levels of cover provided 
met their needs. And Im satisfied that the last policy renewal clearly sets out the policy 
limits. 
So I think RMG acted within the regulatory requirements, and fairly and reasonably, in the 
sale of the policy to Mr K1 and Mr K2. And so I dont require it to compensate them for their 
losses.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K1 and Mr K2 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman