DRN-4327986
The complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money she lost when she 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In January 2023, Miss D received a phone call from someone claiming to be from HMRC. 
The caller told her she owed money and that this was the last day she could pay in order to 
avoid court action against her. Miss D says she was worried and felt forced to pay, so made 
two payments using her Barclays debit card to account details the caller gave her. Ive set 
out the payments Miss D made below:
Date Amount
16 January 2023 £500
16 January 2023 £2,464.72
Unfortunately, we now know the caller was a scammer.
Once she realised it was a scam, Miss D called Barclays to report the payments and ask it to 
refund the money she had lost. Barclays investigated but said she had verified the payments 
and it hadnt made an error. So it didnt agree to refund the money she had lost. Miss D 
wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think the payments were 
unusual or out of character enough to expect Barclays to have stepped in and stopped them 
being made. And they didnt think there was anything it could do to recover the payments. 
So they didnt think Barclays should have to refund the money Miss D had lost. Miss D 
disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The payment Miss D made for £500 has already been refunded to her by the company it 
was sent to. And so I havent considered it any further here and have only considered the 
payment of £2,464.72.
Did Barclays do enough to protect Miss D?
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Miss D 
accepts she made the payment here. So while I recognise she didnt intend for the money to 
go to scammers, she did authorise the payment. And so the starting position in law is that 
Barclays was obliged to follow her instructions and make the payment. So Miss D isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out requirements for 
banks to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. So, in line with this, I think 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
And so Ive also considered whether Barclays should have identified that Miss D was 
potentially at risk of fraud as a result of this payment.
But the payment Miss D made wasnt for what Id consider to be a particularly large amount 
of money. There had been other payments going in and out of her account for what I 
consider to be similar amounts previously. And the payment didnt leave the balance of her 
account at a particularly unusual or suspicious level.
So I dont think the payment will have looked particularly suspicious or unusual to Barclays. 
And I think its reasonable Barclays didnt identify that Miss D was potentially at risk of fraud 
as a result of the payment, or ask any further questions or carry out any additional checks 
before allowing it to go through.
Did Barclays do enough to recover the money Miss D lost?
Once they have been notified of a scam, we expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to 
recover any money their customers have lost  including making use of any available 
chargeback scheme.
A chargeback is a process by which card payments can be disputed with the merchant who 
took the payment, which in Miss Ds case is the online payment service the payment was 
made via. But it wasnt the online payment service themselves that scammed Miss D. The 
online payment service didnt do anything wrong and just made the payment as instructed. 
So I dont think there was anything further Barclays could do to dispute the payment in this 
way.
Any attempt by Barclays to recover the money would also have been unsuccessful, for the 
same reasons. The recovery attempt would have gone to the online payment service, and it 
hadnt done anything wrong.
And so I dont think anything wed reasonably expect Barclays to have done would have 
recovered the money Miss D lost.
I sympathise with the position Miss D has found herself in. She has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and Im in no way saying she did anything wrong herself. But I can only look at the 
actions of Barclays, and for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Barclays has acted unreasonably or that anything we would reasonably have expected it to do would have 
prevented or recovered her loss.
So I dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible, or that it should have to refund 
the money Miss D lost here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman