DRN-4105762
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited acted irresponsibly by approving her 
car finance application, because it wasnt affordable for her.
What happened
Mrs P applied for a hire purchase (HP) agreement with Startline for a car. The finance was 
for £14,605.52, repayable over 60 months, with monthly instalments of £326.19. Her 
application was approved, and the agreement started on 3 January 2017.
For the first 18 months Mrs P made all the required payments on time by direct debit. From 
August 2018 she continued to make payments - mainly by card instead of direct debit. But 
by February 2020 she was struggling to pay. 
Startline have told us they took the car back on 20 January 2021 and later sold it, reducing 
the amount Mrs P owed. Since then, shes been making payments of £50 a month towards 
the outstanding balance.
Mrs P complained to Startline that they shouldnt have given her the finance. Startline said 
they hadnt done anything wrong, so Mrs P brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt think Startline had done enough at the application stage to check 
whether the finance was affordable for Mrs P. And she didnt think they shouldve approved 
the finance. She said Startline should refund the £500 deposit Mrs P had paid, plus interest, 
and remove any adverse information about the agreement from her credit file.
The investigator said Mrs P should pay Startline for the use shed had of the car, but that a 
fair amount would be £225 per month. She said if Mrs P had paid more than that, Startline 
should refund the overpayments, with interest. Or if any amount was still owed, Startline 
should agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs P. 
Startline disagreed with the investigators view - they said theyd undertaken a thorough 
creditworthiness assessment in line with the requirements. Ill summarise the main points 
they made:
Although Mrs P had previously defaulted on several credit lines, this had mainly been 
in 2013. There were no significant concerns about her credit performance since then.
Theyd noted Mrs P had recently been managing as much as £893 in monthly credit 
payments. As several of these had been repaid, they felt it was reasonable to 
assume she could afford additional credit. 
The application hadnt required Mrs P to say what her income was at the time. 
Startline had estimated it to be £22,000, based on her stated occupation. They 
werent aware that shed been on a zero-hours contract. But theyd seen her income 
had been stable over the last 12 months, so they thought it was reasonable to 
assume this would continue even under a zero-hours contract. 
Recent credit reference agency data showed Mrs P had been repaying £395 each 
month for an unsecured loan shed taken out in February 2018, without any issues. 
They felt this showed she was able to make payments to this loan and Startlines 
agreement at the same time without any problems.
Startline asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our website explains how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ps complaint. 
Before they approved Mrs Ps application, Startline were required to carry out checks to 
satisfy themselves shed be able to afford the repayments without adversely impacting her 
financial situation  and that shed be able to keep that up throughout the period of the 
agreement. 
There was no set list of checks Startline had to carry out. But they had to make sure the 
checks they completed were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. Id expect 
Startline to have taken into account things like the amount of finance involved, the monthly 
repayments, how long Mrs P would be making these repayments, and her circumstances at 
the time of the application. 
This agreement was for around £14,600 of credit, requiring Mrs P to make payments of 
approximately £326 every month for the next five years. I think the fact that shed be 
repaying a relatively large amount of credit over a long period of time increased the risk that 
this might not be sustainable for her. Id expect the checks Startline carried out to reflect that. 
Did Startline carry out proportionate checks?
Startline say they carried out thorough checks, and properly considered what that showed 
about whether the finance was affordable for Mrs P. Theyve told us they looked at the 
information she supplied in her application, together with credit reference agency 
information. 
Startline have provided a screenshot showing the employment information Mrs P wouldve 
given them in her application. This shows she was permanently employed on a full time 
basis, and that shed been in that role for approximately two years.  
I havent seen a copy of all the information Startlines checks revealed. Without seeing that, 
Im unable to satisfy myself that their checks were reasonable and proportionate in this case.
 
What would Startline have found if theyd done proportionate checks?
I think a proportionate check wouldve involved finding out about Mrs Ps income and 
expenditure, as well as her credit history, to decide whether she could afford to repay the 
amount of credit shed applied for. 
(i) Income Startline say the application didnt ask for Mrs Ps income, but they estimated shed be 
earning at least £22,000 per year based on her stated occupation. They told us credit 
reference agency information showed her income had been stable for the past 12 
months. 
If Mrs P had an annual salary of £22,000, shed have been taking home around £1,500 
per month. I dont think it was reasonable for Startline to assume Mrs P would be earning 
at least that amount, based on the limited amount of information theyd got. Mrs P has 
told us she was in fact on a zero-hours contract, so her wages varied every month.
Ive looked at the last three bank statements Mrs P wouldve received before she applied 
for this finance. I wouldnt necessarily expect Startline to have asked to see these. But I 
think Mrs Ps bank statements give a good indication of what they wouldve discovered if 
theyd asked for more information about her income. 
In the three-month period I looked at, Mrs Ps statements show her pay ranged from just 
under £215 to just over £390 a month. Including child benefit allowance, I calculate her 
average income to have been just over £360 a month. 
The agreement with Startline required Mrs P to make monthly repayments of just over 
£326. This would leave her with less than £10 a week to spend on other essential 
expenditure. 
Without even considering her other financial commitments and essential living expenses, 
I wouldnt consider this monthly repayment to have been affordable for Mrs P in a way 
shed be able to sustain for the next five years. This finance was for a car, so at the very 
least shed have to pay for road tax, insurance, and fuel.
For completeness, Ive also considered her essential living expenditure.
(ii) Expenditure
Mrs P has provided a copy of her credit file. This may not contain exactly the same 
information Startline wouldve obtained from the credit reference agency they used, 
because theres no requirement for lenders to share information with every credit 
reference agency. But I think Mrs Ps credit file gives an indication of the kind of 
information Startline were likely to have seen. 
The credit file shows that, at the time of her application to Startline, Mrs P wouldve 
already been making repayments for two loans shed taken out in March and November 
2016, as well as an HP agreement shed taken out in May 2016. Her bank statements 
show she was in fact making monthly repayments to four or five different lenders and 
debt recovery agents. 
Startline say credit reference agency data showed Mrs P was maintaining her existing 
credit accounts well, including a loan. They say she was also managing to keep up to 
date with payments of £310 a month for her existing HP agreement  and that they 
required her to pay that off before theyd accept her application for the new agreement.
I dont think its reasonable to assume the new agreement was affordable for Mrs P 
because shed kept up to date with repayments on her previous HP agreement - or 
because she managed to keep up the repayments on the new agreement for some time. I 
wouldnt consider it unusual for her to prioritise those repayments, because many people 
regard their car as essential to get to work, or to take their children to school. The key point for Startline to consider was whether she could afford to keep up the 
repayments without adversely affecting her financial situation. 
Mrs P has told us her husband paid most of the household bills, but that she paid for 
some of their food and clothes for the children. Having reviewed how much she was 
paying each month towards her existing credit commitments, insurance, food, and fuel, I 
can see her essential expenditure significantly exceeded her income every month. 
Mrs P told us she had to borrow money from her husband and her mum to make ends 
meet. I find this to be consistent with the bank statements Ive seen, which show money 
being transferred from family members. 
For these reasons, if Startline had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, I dont 
think they could reasonably have concluded that Mrs P would be able to make the required 
repayments in a way shed be able to sustain over the five year period. So, Im satisfied that 
her application shouldnt have been approved. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Startline shouldve approved Mrs Ps finance application, I think it would be 
fair and reasonable for them to refund everything shes paid under the agreement, minus a 
deduction for the fair use shes had of the car.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair use would be. But in deciding whats 
fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the amount of interest and charges applied to the 
agreement, the use Mrs P had of the car, and what reasonable costs shed likely have 
incurred instead if shed never entered into this agreement. 
Having thought about this, I agree with our investigator that its fair for Mrs P to pay for the 
fair use shes had of the car based on a rate of £225 per month. So, Startline should now 
recalculate the balance of the account; working out the total amount Mrs P has paid and 
deducting an allowance for her fair use of the car based on that rate.  
If Mrs P has paid more than the fair usage allowance, Startline should refund any surplus to 
her. They should add interest to each amount to be refunded, calculated from the date Mrs P 
made each overpayment to the date of the refund. And as I dont think this agreement 
shouldve been approved, I think its fair that Startline should remove any adverse 
information thats been recorded on Mrs Ps credit file about it. 
However, if any outstanding balance remains, Startline should arrange an affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs P. Id remind them of the FCA requirement to treat customers in 
financial difficulties with forbearance and consideration. Once any outstanding debt has 
been fully repaid, Startline should remove any adverse information thats been recorded on 
Mrs Ps credit file about it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Startline Motor Finance 
Limited to:
Refund the £500 deposit, plus 8% simple interest calculated from the date Mrs P paid 
it to the date its refunded.
Recalculate the balance of the account; adding up all the payments Mrs P has made 
and deducting an allowance for her fair use of the car for the period of time she had 
it, based on a rate of £225 per month.  If adjusting the balance leaves the account in credit:
oRefund the surplus amount to Mrs P, plus 8% simple interest per year 
calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date its refunded, 
oRemove any adverse information thats been recorded on Mrs Ps credit file 
about this agreement. 
If any outstanding balance remains:
oAgree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs P - and treat her with 
forbearance and consideration.
oWhen the debt has been fully repaid, remove any adverse information thats 
been recorded on Mrs Ps credit file about it. 
If Startline decide tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Mrs P how much theyve taken off. And if she asks for one, they should give her a 
tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman