DRN-1465971
The complaint
Mr E complains about TS Capital Limited. Hes unhappy with recommendations they gave 
him to buy shares in three companies. He thinks the recommendations were reckless and 
TS Capital Limited didnt pay him due care and attention as they didnt give him any 
guidance.
What happened
Mr E opened an account with a predecessor firm of TS Capital (for ease of reading I will only 
refer to TS Capital) in 2012. Over the next few years TS Capital recommended a number of 
shares to him. He agreed to buy shares in three companies which havent performed well 
over the course of time and have resulted in a significant loss of his initial investment.
In 2019 he complained to TS Capital and said, in summary:
Hed lost thousand of pounds after taking their advice.
He was assured that certain persons at TS Capital had selected the shares they had 
recommended to him and wanted to know what their rationale was in recommending 
the shares hed been advised to buy.
He believed hed been misled, and due care and attention hadnt been shown.
TS Capital didnt uphold his complaint. They said, in summary:
Mr Es account was an advisory account which meant that they were entitled to make 
investment recommendations to him and to provide investment advice either at his 
request or on their own initiative.
Their terms and conditions clearly stated that they do not undertake discretionary 
management of investments. Any investment advice given to Mr E was provided on 
the understanding that they didnt accept responsibility on a continuing basis for 
advising on the composition of his portfolio.
Their terms and conditions also set out their liability to clients and stated that unless 
caused by their fraud, wilful default or negligence, they wouldnt be liable for any 
losses suffered.
Mr E brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She didnt think the complaint should be upheld and said, in summary:
Mr E was an experienced investor with a good level of investment knowledge who 
understood the high risk nature of the shares TS Capital advised him to buy. And it 
appeared he was prepared to take considerable financial risk for the prospect of 
higher returns.
She hadnt seen any evidence to suggest he was under any obligation to buy the 
shares.
She appreciated that he doubted that sufficient due diligence was carried out, but he 
hadn't provided any evidence to support this claim. 
It wasnt the nature of our service to audit the rationale behind a businesss decisions 
in relation to their advice. There was either evidence of failure(s) in due diligence or 
not. She hadnt seen any evidence of a failure, so she was satisfied the stocks 
offered to him were suitable for his needs and personal circumstances at the time.
The shares relating to his complaint were considered to be high risk, but from what 
shed seen, they fell within the investment objectives set out in his application form. 
Therefore, she couldnt reasonably say that TS Capital diverged from the agreed 
mandate.
Mr E didnt agree with her. He reiterated that the shares TS Capital recommended to him 
were specifically sifted from a larger batch they had looked at. And he questioned the due 
diligence they had carried out especially as they couldnt provide any rationale behind the 
recommendations. He also questioned why TS Capital hadnt shared any of the calls they 
made to him where they recommended the three companies.
He thought TS Capital hadnt observed his objectives and attitude to risk. And the fact he 
was an experienced investor shouldnt have meant that he was treated differently to anyone 
else. He thought he was due a greater level of protection from the standards that applied to 
him such as the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS).
The investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion so the case has been passed to me to 
make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ive firstly considered the type of 
relationship Mr E had with TS Capital. He was an advisory customer - essentially a 
promotion and execution only service - not a discretionary customer. This meant that TS 
Capital made recommendations and he decided whether to follow their advice, but their 
remit didnt extend to managing his portfolio.
Therefore, the responsibility to choose to invest remained with Mr E. But, in acting in an 
advisory capacity, TS Capital had a responsibility to gather enough information to assess its 
customers attitude to risk and circumstances and provide suitable recommendations. The 
COBS sets out what is expected of businesses when offering financial services. This 
includes, under rule 10.2.4, that a business must determine whether the client has the 
necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to 
the product or service offered or demanded.
Ive reviewed Mr Es application form from 2012 and the fact find documents that were 
completed in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2016.
In the 2012 documents, Mr E is described as:
Being experienced in the markets and high risk trading
Trading over 45 times the previous year
Having an investment split of 65% of his holdings in the FTSE100 and 35% in the 
AIM
Preferring to invest in FTSE 100, FTSE 250, FTSE All Share, AIM, FTSE Small Cap, 
Penny Shares, New Issues and Pre-IPO issues The 2013 document describes Mr E as:
Preferring a medium or high level of risk
An adventurous investor who was interested in FTSE 100, FTSE 250 and AIM 
shares
Having an understanding of high risk stock and over 10 years experience of the 
markets and high risk investments
So I think its fair to say that Mr E was a reasonably experienced investor. He had 
experience of a range of investments including high risk AIM shares. When he became a 
client of TS Capital he told them he was prepared to receive recommendations for a range of 
securities including AIM listed shares.
The COBS also say, under rule 10.2.4, that a business is entitled to rely on the information 
provided by the client unless it is aware that the information is manifestly out of date, 
inaccurate or incomplete. I think that based on the information provided by Mr E, it wasnt 
inappropriate for TS Capital to make the recommendations they did to him as they were 
within his stated objectives. 
Unfortunately, the call recordings from when the recommendations were made to Mr E are 
unavailable. I dont think this is surprising given the length of time that has passed. Theres 
also no record of any documentation that would have been sent to him at the time. The call 
notes from the time show that TS Capital made a number of recommendations to Mr E, 
some of which he took up and others were rejected.
I think its reasonable to assume that an investor with experience of these various types of 
investment would be aware of the potential risks and rewards associated with them. And the 
fact that he rejected some of the recommendations and took up others shows that he was 
displaying a level of discretion and making informed decisions of his own. 
At the heart of this complaint is the poor performance of the shares recommended by TS 
Capital. This service will not generally uphold a complaint about the poor performance of a 
recommendation. Investment research, even when carried out with skill and diligence, 
doesnt guarantee success. The fact that the recommendations produced a poor outcome 
doesnt show that they were negligent and Im unable to uphold the complaint on this basis. 
Mr E appears to want the due diligence behind each recommendation to be audited by this 
service. I consider that to be an exercise that is arguably beyond the remit of this service and 
one that would be unreasonable. There is either evidence of any specific failure in due 
diligence  which I havent seen  or there is not. Because I havent seen anything to 
suggest that TS Capital made any failures, then Im unable to uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman