DRN-4012357
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about Barclays Bank UK PLC, (referred to as Barclays or the 
business) about their experience of the smart investor platform.
In short, Mr P says Barclays failed to credit their joint account with the requisite number of 
shares and warrants, subsequently preventing them from disposing of the shares and 
warrants, resulting in financial loss.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have a joint account with smart investor. Based on what Mr P says I 
understand that within their portfolio they had a holding in URA Holdings plc (URA). 
I understand that on 7 May 2021, URA made an in-specie distribution of shares and 
warrants in Ananda Developments (Ananda) to shareholders of URA in proportion to their 
shareholdings. Mr P says, their account shouldve been credited with 199,084 shares and 
199,084 warrants in Ananda shortly after 7 May 2021, but this didnt happen.    
Aware that other shareholders in URA had received their shares and warrants, Mr P 
contacted Barclays on 18 May 2021 to establish the whereabouts of their shares and 
warrants. 
Theres been much correspondence between Mr P and Barclays, but Mr P says his requests 
have been totally ignored, denying him and Mrs P the opportunity to dispose of these shares 
and warrants, which have also halved in value since they were first raised on 18 May 2021. 
It seems that by the time Barclays received the shares and warrants their value had 
decreased. 
Barclays upheld the complaint. In short, it said: 
Its service fell short of its own standards. 
It couldve done more to manage Mr and Mrs Ps expectations. 
It offered £51 (as a gesture of goodwill) to purchase the shares, and £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. However, it broadly maintains 
that its not responsible for any reduction in value of the shares.  
Mr P disagreed with the business and referred the complaint to our service. He was, 
amongst other points, unhappy that the distribution was announced before the consolidation. 
To settle the matter, based on his own calculations he was prepared to accept £4,380  less 
the sum of £1,593 that theyd realised  for their losses, together with a further sum of £500 
compensation to be paid to a charity of their choice for the not inconsiderable 
inconvenience. 
In due course Barclays offered Mr and Mrs P £350 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I note Mr P maintains hes not aware of this offer, but in any case, he 
doesnt agree. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Despite Barclays accepting a lack of care, he cant safely say that it caused the 
delays resulting in Mr and Mrs P not being able to dispose of their shares and 
warrants. 
Based on what Barclays says, it seems it contacted URA and the third-party 
businesses in an attempt to receive the shares and warrants, but it was difficult 
getting any updates. 
After contacting both registrars and URA he discovered that Barclays was not only 
not given definitive information about where the shares and warrants were, but also 
when they would be transferred. It was also difficult for Barclays to find the correct 
people to speak to regarding the matter, despite repeatedly asking for details of who 
it should speak to. This led to further delays, but the delays werent down to Barclays. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs P were frustrated by the length of time taken to allocate their 
shares and warrants, Barclays wasnt the contributing factor to the delays. On the 
contrary it took steps to try and resolve the issue. 
Whilst Barclays probably couldve done more to try and ascertain where the shares 
and warrants were, and manage expectations better, its offer to pay Mr and Mrs P 
£350 compensation, is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the investigators view. Although Mr P said he required more 
time to reply, he also said that he had no recollection of the £350 offer being made and 
would like to see the letter. He also said that despite requests, Barclays failed to provide 
them with the details of all the contact it had with the third-party business and/or the 
registrars  hed like to see this information before replying in full.   
  
In due course, having had an opportunity to consider the additional information supplied by 
the investigator, Mr P made the following key points:
He doesnt know why the investigator thinks he referred the complaint to our service 
because Barclays offer of compensation was unreasonable. Hes not sure where the 
investigator got that from. 
The reason why he approached our service (on 29 October 2021) was because hed 
repeatedly asked Barclays to let him know what action it had taken since 10 May 
2021 regarding his shares and warrants, and it had failed to do so.  
It was nothing to do with rejecting the derisory offer of £350, which Barclays didnt 
even make. 
In any case, the investigator has absolved Barclays of any culpability, for the 
reduction in value of their holdings, by blaming the registrars. 
A brief chronology of events is as follows:
oOn 10 May 2021, URA issued a Regulatory News Service RNS 
announcement confirming the distribution of the Ananda to URA 
shareholders. Barclays shouldve been aware of this. 
oOn 18 May 2021, aware that other shareholders in URA had received their 
Ananda shares and warrant letters, Mr P contacted Barclays again to 
establish the whereabouts of their holdings, but Barclays did nothing. 
oOn 1 June 2021, he contacted Barclays again, to find out why their shares 
and warrants still hadnt been credited to their smart investor account, again 
Barclays did nothing. 
oOn 16 June 2021, having heard nothing from Barclays, Mr P contacted 
Barclays again and asked about what action it had taken since 18 May 2021, 
in particular whether it has raised the issue with Ananda. Barclays did 
nothing. It asked for a link to the RNS, which was unbelievable.oOn 23 June 2021, after receiving another holding message from Barclays he 
again requested from Barclays, details of what its corporate action team had 
done since 10 May 2021. 
oOn 30 June 2021, Barclays wrote an internal memo requesting colleagues to 
pursue the issue of the shares and warrants with the registrars. This is the 
first documentary evidence that Barclays was actually doing something, 
despite Mr Ps previous messages. 
oMuch of the damage had already been done by then. On 30 June 2021, their 
shares and warrants were valued at £2,190, exactly one half of their value 
when he raised the issue on 18 May 2021. 
oLeaving aside Barclays complaint handling, hes rarely ever encountered 
such a litany of inaction and indifference  any impartial observer would 
agree.  
 
The investigator having considered the issue wasnt persuaded to change his mind. In short, 
he said there wasnt enough evidence to say that Barclays was solely responsible for the 
delay. That said, he accepts that there was poor service on the part of Barclays for which it 
has offered compensation. Because the amount is broadly in line with what our service 
would offer, hes not persuaded to increase the offer.   
In response, Mr P made the following key submissions:
He assumes that on receipt of his response, the investigator  in the interests of 
justice and impartiality  challenged Barclays about why despite numerous reminders 
it did nothing between 18 May 2021 and June 30 June 2021  during which time the 
value of their holdings fell by almost £2,200. So, hed like to know what Barclays 
said? 
Barclays dont have to be solely responsible for there to be blame. It also doesnt 
prevent us from making an award based on culpability. At present the investigator 
has attributed all blame to the registrars, but the phantom offer doesnt recognise 
the loss in value of their holdings. 
It cant be disputed that the bulk of the reduction in value of their holdings occurred 
during the period 18 May 2021 to 30 June 2021, when Barclays did nothing, so its 
not true that Barclays did everything it could do to progress the matter.   
Hed like to hear Barclays excuse for doing nothing during the period that the value 
of the holdings in question went through the floor. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said that hed seen nothing to persuade him to change his view. Theres 
insufficient evidence to warrant an increase in award for delays. Whilst some of the delays 
were down to them, they werent responsible for all the delays. He said hed forward the 
complaint to an ombudsman for decision. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint on the basis that Barclays most recently 
offered to pay Mr and Mrs P £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, 
but it did so after the complaint was referred to our service and is still yet to pay the amount. 
That said, I also think the amount offered is broadly fair and reasonable. I dont think the business deliberately prevented Mr and Mrs P from receiving their shares 
and warrants. Im also mindful that URA (not Barclays) issued an RNS confirming the 
distribution of the Ananda to URA shareholders. 
Before I explain why I think an offer of £350 is fair and reasonable I think its important for 
me to note I very much recognise Mr and Mrs Ps strength of feeling about this matter. Mr P 
has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope he and Mrs P wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr P, and Barclays, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. But its 
for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened.
Evidently, there was an issue which meant that Mr and Mrs P didnt receive their shares and 
warrants at the same time as other customers. In my opinion, and on balance, I think the 
issue was, more likely (than not) to do with the third-party business, and/or the registrars 
which prevented Mr and Mrs P from receiving the shares and warrants sooner. In other 
words, and on balance, I dont think the delay was attributable to Barclays.  
Despite what Mr P says, on balance, I also dont think that Barclays couldve influenced 
when the shares and warrants wouldve been received by Mr and Mrs P in their smart 
investor account. Even if Barclays had chased more than it had done so  I note it says We 
had attempted to contact the registrar on many occasions over the months to obtain the 
shares and warrants  I still cant safely say that it wouldve made a material difference to 
the timing in this instance which was outside of its control. 
Barclays werent involved in the process for the shares and warrants to be transferred - it 
wasnt required to do anything in order for these to be added to any client account including 
Mr and Mrs Ps.
Whether or not the adviser challenged Barclays about why it acted in the way it did/failed to 
respond to its requests, doesnt prevent me from reaching a decision in this case. That said, 
Im persuaded that Barclays took some action about what was going on but was 
(unsurprisingly) unable to get to the bottom of the matter. 
I appreciate Mr P says that much of the damage (in terms of loss) had already been done by 
30 June 2021, when their shares and warrants were devalued by half of their original value 
(when they were raised on 18 May 2021), but for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont 
think I can blame Barclays for this. 
I note Mr P says, it cant be disputed that the bulk of the reduction in value of their holdings 
occurred during the period of 18 May 2021 to 30 June 2021, when Barclays did nothing. But 
in my opinion, and on balance, this is coincidental. Barclays isnt responsible for the loss in 
value of the shares and warrants, thats dependent on the financial markets and isnt 
something that Barclays can predict or control.
I appreciate what Mr P says about respective culpability, I agree that a party doesnt have to 
be solely responsible for there to be blame. However, I dont think thats what the 
investigator was saying in this instance. Having discussed the matter with him, I understand 
that what he meant was that Barclays wasnt the only party to have done something wrong in 
this case. Im conscious that this point couldve been better expressed by the investigator but thats not a reason for me to uphold the complaint, as I dont think Barclays was responsible 
for the delays  Im mindful that Barclays didnt cause/initiate this delay.
In any case, Im aware also that Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that as well as not taking any 
action  which isnt necessarily correct  Barclays also failed to answer to Mr Ps queries 
and provide answers which Barclays accepts. 
The above notwithstanding, in the circumstances and on balance, I agree with Barclays that 
its service  including getting back to Mr P, failing to adequately explain its actions and 
calculating the price of the warrants after consolidation  were below standard. There was 
no real reason why Barclays couldnt effectively communicate with Mr and Mrs P during this 
period. 
I also agree that Barclays failed to manage their expectations. As well as failing to effectively 
communicate with them, it ought reasonably to have been more forthcoming in terms of its 
own limitations, the difficulties it was experiencing getting in touch with the right people, and 
how long it was likely to take to resolve the issue. But having failed to do so  between the 
period of 18 May 2021 to 30 June 2021  I think an amount of £350 is broadly fair and 
reasonable by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Im aware that Mr P recently raised another issue, but Barclays didnt have an opportunity to 
consider that complaint. So, like the investigator Ive not considered that issue in this 
decision.
Im also aware that some of the points raised relate to complaint handling and the way that 
Barclays dealt with Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. But despite what Mr P says, complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity therefore not something I can consider in this case.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive upheld this complaint, but I 
still havent given them what they want. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im not going to 
ask the business to do anything other than pay them the £350 compensation. 
Despite what Mr and Mrs P want, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im 
unable to give them what they want. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs P £350 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
Mr and Mrs P redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman