DRN-2296724
The complaint
Mr R complained (on behalf of himself and the joint policyholder, Ms R) about the way that
UIA (Insurance) Limited (UIA) handled a claim under his property insurance policy for
buildings repairs following an escape of water.
What happened
In late 2017, a pipe behind Mr and Ms Rs dishwasher burst. This caused water damage in
the kitchen and the attached living area.
Mr R contacted UIA to make a claim. UIA sent a surveyor to the property to assess the
damage and how much it would cost to repair. Mr R got his own report. The estimate Mr R
got was several times higher than the surveyors one for UIA.
Mr R didnt accept the surveyors estimate because he didnt think it covered everything that
needed to be done to complete the repairs properly. And UIA didnt accept Mr Rs estimate
because their surveyor advised them it was over-priced  and Mr R hadnt provided a
breakdown of how his contractor had reached his final figure.
The position didnt change for many months because Mr R didnt contact UIA with a
breakdown of his contractors costs. Eventually UIA said they would close the claim if they
didnt hear from him. This prompted Mr R to provide a breakdown. UIAs surveyor reviewed
this but said the work was over-scoped, as well as over-priced.
UIAs surveyor arranged to visit Mr Rs property again to review their previous estimate.
This resulted in an increased figure  but it was still considerably less than Mr Rs estimate.
And the parties still couldnt agree what work was needed. So Mr R rejected both the offer
to have UIAs contractors do the work and the alternative cash amount.
Mr R complained to UIA about how the claim had been dealt with. UIA considered what hed
said  in particular a number of questions Mr R had asked about whether particular costs
had been included in the surveyors estimate.
Following the complaint, UIA re-scoped the repair work  which led to them increasing their 
estimate again. But Mr R wasnt satisfied as he said it still didnt include everything that
needed replacing. And he asked for details of the contractor who would do the work if he
chose that option, and the storage company where his possessions would be stored.
Further exchanges between the parties led to UIA increasing their offer again  but it was
still just over half of Mr Rs quote. As he said he couldnt get the repairs done for that
amount, Mr R asked UIA to instruct a contractor to do the work. But UIA said that was now
not an option, and they would only offer a cash settlement.  In June 2020, they paid Mr R 
£14,000 to settle his claim.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked at all the evidence and came to
the view that UIA didnt need to do anything more for Mr R than theyd already done. He
said we would only expect UIA to pay Mr R what the repairs would have cost them. And
that, even though Mr R had concerns, he couldnt say that there would have been problems
with the repairs if they were done as UIAs surveyor said they could be.
I didnt agree with our investigators view.  So I made a provisional decision.  I said I thought 
Mr R should be compensated for UIAs failure to address his queries  which I decided had 
been reasonable because theyd led to changes in the scope of work UIA agreed was 
needed.  
And I explained Mr R had two options for getting the repairs done.  He could either have 
UIAs contractors do the work to his property  and UIA would pay them direct. Or he could 
accept a cash settlement from UIA and arrange to have the work done which he thinks is 
needed, and pay the difference himself. 
But I didnt think it was fair for UIA to say they wouldnt get the work done themselves and 
would only offer Mr R a cash settlement based on preferential rates UIA would get with its 
own contractors.  UIAs terms and conditions do say the maximum theyll pay for any claim is 
the amount itd cost them to have the damage repaired.  But that wouldnt be enough to 
allow Mr R to have the work done because - as a consumer  hed have to pay the market 
rate for the work. And he would have no alternative to doing that in this situation  because 
UIA werent offering to do the work for him.
So I provisionally decided that a fair resolution to Mr Rs complaint would either be for UIA to 
arrange to have the repair work done.  Or, if they werent willing to do that, for them to pay 
Mr R what it would cost him to get the work done himself, at market rates.  And I 
provisionally decided that UIA should pay Mr R £500 to compensate him for the trouble and 
upset hed been caused during this claim.
UIA didnt accept my provisional decision.  They said they thought the amount theyd offered 
to settle Mr Rs claim was reasonable.  And that they didnt accept Mr Rs quote because it 
included repairing damage which wasnt caused by the escape of water.  They said Mr R 
would never be satisfied with the repairs. But in their most recent correspondence, they did 
agree to pay Mr R the £500 compensation Id provisionally decided they should.
Mr R replied, asking for clarification on whether my provisional decision covered the damage 
to plinths and the bi-fold doors. And he told us that there are now additional problems with 
damp and mould, which he believes were caused by the escape of water. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint, in line with my provisional decision.  Ill 
explain why.
I explained in my provisional decision that my role is to decide whether UIA have dealt fairly 
and reasonably with Mr Rs claim and in accordance with the terms of his home insurance 
policy.  It isnt to decide how much of the damage Mr R says the escape of water caused 
should be covered under the policy.
Ive looked at the scope of work provided by UIA.  I cant see that anything which UIA says 
needs repairing has been missed out.  Some items  such as replacing the bifold doors  
arent included.  But I think thats reasonable because UIA have said the damage wasnt 
caused by the escape of water.  And other items Mr Rs complained about  such as the 
plinths  are included, but to be repaired, not replaced, because thats what UIA says is 
needed.  Again, I think thats reasonable. If it later transpired that repairing the plinths wasnt 
possible, Id expect UIA to consider this again. But, at this stage, Im satisfied its fair for an attempt at repair to be made, and for UIA to have detailed this in their scope. I cant see any 
firm evidence at this stage that a repair wouldnt be possible.
Ive seen that Mr Rs said some works not been scoped  for example, to tiling.  Thats true.  
But theres no damage to the tiling.  Mr Rs basing what he says on his belief that damage 
will be caused by repairing other damaged items.  Ive thought about this.  But Im satisfied 
that the scope of work is based on inspection by UIAs surveyor.  So theyll have seen how 
the tiling might be affected by the work.  And so the scope of work will have taken that into 
account.
And Ive thought about what Mr Rs said about new damage coming to light.  Mr Rs said that 
his builder found this by pulling away plasterboard and skirting.  It may be that UIA need to 
re-survey the damage in light of this information.  But the scope of works includes 
replacement of damaged skirting and plasterboard.  So I think this work is already included 
in the scope.  And overall, Im satisfied that UIAs scope of works is a reasonable 
assessment of the repair works needed.
Ive thought about UIAs objections to my provisional decision. And I think theyve 
misunderstood what I said.  
UIA appear to believe that my provisional decision meant they should accept Mr Rs quote. 
And that they should cover the cost of everything included in that quote.  Id like to confirm 
that isnt the case.  
As I said above, its not my role to decide what should be included within the scope of works 
but instead to see whether UIA has acted reasonably based on the evidence provided.  Im 
satisfied that UIA have now taken steps to make sure theyve considered everything Mr R 
had raised when I made my provisional decision  although they didnt in the earlier stages 
of the claim.  And theyve explained why theyve not included everything Mr R thinks should 
be covered.  So I dont think they need to do anything more in respect of scoping the repair 
works.
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Rs policy. The relevant term says:
We will pay for the necessary repair or replacement (but not improvements) of parts of the
buildings following loss or damage by an insured event
UIAs scope of works has set out what repairs are necessary.  Those works  including any 
additional work they scope to rectify the damp and mould - should be carried out under the 
terms of the policy.  
But UIA have said they wont do the works.  Instead, theyve paid Mr R £14,000, which is the 
amount those works would cost them to have done, plus an additional amount.
But, as a consumer, Mr R wont be able to get the works UIA have said are needed done for 
the same price that UIA can  hell have to pay market rates.  And Ive been given no 
evidence that £14,000 will be enough to cover those market rates.  So, unless UIA do 
something differently, Mr R is in the position where he cant get the work his insurer says is 
needed done for the amount theyve paid him  hell have to make up the difference out of 
his own pocket.  And thats not fair. 
  
Putting things rightAs I said in my provisional decision, I think a fair resolution to Mr Rs complaint would be for 
UIA to arrange to have the repair work done if Mr R wants this  as he has suggested 
previously. 
That work would be the work detailed in UIAs scope of work (amended if necessary to 
include rectifying the mould and damp)  not everything in Mr Rs quote.   Mr R can, of 
course, have done whatever work he thinks is needed. But, unless its included in UIAs 
scope of works, hell have to do that at his own cost.  And If Mr R does choose to have UIA 
complete the works, then he will need to return the £14,000 to them  as UIA will be 
spending these costs in completing the work.
If UIA arent willing to do the work theyve scoped, theyll have to pay Mr R what it will cost 
him to get the work done himself, at market rates. This way, Mr R will be able to get a 
contractor to complete the works scoped by UIA, at UIAs cost.  Again, any work Mr R wants 
done which is not included in UIAs scope will have to be done at his own cost. 
And UIA should pay Mr R £500 compensation  as theyve now agreed to do.  Because, 
although Mr R did delay, UIA didnt address Mr Rs questions about why various items 
werent included in the quote.  As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think those 
questions were unreasonable and Mr R was entitled to replies. And its clear that not all the 
work was scoped as early as it should have been, given the large increases in the scope of 
work, and the cash settlement offered, after Mr R raised this  which added to Mr Rs 
concerns.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint about UIA (Insurance) Limited 
and directing them either: 
Agree to carry out the work to Mr Rs property, based on the latest scope of works 
completed; or
Provide Mr R with a cash settlement for the works on the latest scope. But this cash 
settlement should be at market rates  so no reduction for UIAs preferential rates 
with contractors; and
to pay Mr R £500 for the trouble and upset this claim has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman