DRN-3753716
The complaint
Mr S complains about repairs to his car which he paid for using his Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC (Tesco) credit card. He says the work he paid for didnt fix the problem, so he wants 
his money back. He brings his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75).
What happened
In October 2021 Mr S took his car to a garage that I will call S to investigate why the engine 
management light (EML) was on. S reported that:
engine has lack of power, fault stored with the va exhaust camshaft, solenoid reqs 
replacing and and VARIOUS FAULTS IN ENGINE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM  SUSPECT 
FAULT WARNING LIGHT WILL RETURN.
On 11 October 2021, and after the EML had come back on, Mr S says he asked a garage 
that I will call G to investigate further. Mr S says G said the engine chain and camshaft 
teeth (sprockets) needed replacing. Mr S says he authorised these works on the 
understanding that it would result in the EML light going off and remaining off.
On 7 January 2022 Mr S collected his car from G and says he was advised by it that the 
EML light was now off and would remain so. Mr S was presented with an invoice for works 
carried out totalling £917.40 which he paid for using his Tesco credit card.
This invoice stated:
CARRY OUT DIAGNOSTIC TEST- 283D VANOS EXHAUST 
ADAPTION STOP, 2845 EXHAUST ACTUATOR MOVEMENT
CHECK FOR RATTEL IN ENGINE & POOR ACCELERATION. 
CHECK VALVE TIMING/POOR ENGINE PERFORMANCE
REPLACE TIMING CHAIN KIT AND CAM SHAFT SPROCKETS
TIMING CHAIN KIT & SPROCKETS
On 12 January 2022 Mr S says the EML came back on, 5 days and 10 miles after he had 
picked the car up from G.
On 20 January 2022 Mr S says he took the car back to G where scanning of the car showed 
4 faults, reported by 3 sensors, with one showing present at the time.
Unhappy with the service he had received from G, Mr S raised a section 75 claim with 
Tesco. However, Tesco declined the claim stating it had been unable to establish a clear 
breach of contract with the merchant [G] as the fault codes sent to us showing the cars 
current state do not show there has been an issue with the repairs which the merchant [G] 
has originally fixed. 
Unhappy with the declinature of his section 75 claim Mr S raised a complaint with Tesco.
In March 2022 Tesco issued Mr S with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL Tesco said it stood by its decision to decline his section 75 claim. And if he remained 
dissatisfied with that decision he had the right to refer a complaint to our service.
In April 2022 Mr S referred a complaint to our service for investigation.
On 28 June 2022 Mr S says he contacted G to ask it to take a look at his car again (under 
what he says was a six month warranty given to him by G in January 2022) because the 
engine warning light had started to flash yellow intermittently and the car was idling 
roughly and stalling frequently [as it was when he took it to G in] October [2021].
For reasons not material to this complaint, Mr S didnt take the car back to G.
Mr S complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that Tesco 
had acted fairly and reasonably in declining his section 75 claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. Mr S should note, 
however, that although I may not address each individual point that hes raised, Ive given 
careful consideration to all of his submissions before arriving at my decision. 
Section 75 provides that, under a very specific set of circumstances, a consumer may seek 
to recover money paid under a contract with a supplier from his or her credit card provider. 
This means that the credit card provider can, in some circumstances, be held equally liable 
with the supplier for a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
To be able to uphold Mr Ss section 75 complaint about Tesco, Id need to find that G told 
Mr S something that wasnt true which he relied on (a misrepresentation) and that as a result 
of that he agreed to pay for the repair. Or that Mr S paid for work that wasnt done at all or 
wasnt done with a reasonable level of care and skill (a breach of contract).
Having considered all the evidence, Im afraid Ive to tell Mr S that I think the investigator has 
reached entirely the right outcome here. And there is very little I can usefully add to what has 
already been said.
Ive found nothing to suggest that G didnt do the work caught by the invoice for £917.40 or 
that it didnt do this work with reasonable care and skill. Ive also seen no documentary 
evidence to suggest that either party, Mr S or G, believed that the work undertaken would 
result in the EML light remaining off. 
I appreciate it would have been very frustrating for Mr S to see the EML light come back on 
only a few days and miles after the car had been returned to him by G. But as has already 
been pointed out by Tesco and the investigator the diagnostic report undertaken in respect 
of the EML light coming back on doesnt highlight any problems or issues with the work 
undertaken by G or highlighted by S.So, taking all this into account, I dont think that Mr S has shown there was a breach of 
contract by G. I say this because Im satisfied that G completed all the work Mr S paid for 
and Ive found nothing to indicate that G did this work without reasonable care and skill.
Ive gone on to consider Mr S complaint point, raised after he referred his complaint to our 
service, that G refused to inspect and repair the car (at no charge) under the warranty it 
gave him in January 2022. But notwithstanding Im satisfied there was no breach of contract 
by G that required remedying, whether under warranty or under Mr S consumer rights, Ive 
seen no documentary evidence that Gs work came with a six month warranty. 
So, taking everything into account I dont uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mr S will be 
disappointed with this, but I dont think theres compelling evidence of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by G. This means I cant fairly require Tesco to pay Mr S anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman