DRN-2334853
The complaint
Miss D complains that Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity) failed to inform
her that a fund merger would result in income from the fund not being reinvested in her ISA.
What happened
Miss D has a stocks and shares ISA with Fidelity. In June 2019 she received a letter from
Fidelity explaining that one of the funds in which she was invested, the Fidelity Money
Builder Growth Fund, was being merged into the Fidelity UK Opportunities Fund.
The merger took place on 21 June 2019. Shortly after this, on 2 August 2019, some income
from the Money Builder fund was paid into Miss Ds account. Normally this wouldve been
automatically reinvested back into the fund. But on this occasion reinvestment wasnt
possible because the fund had been merged.
Miss D then received a statement dated 6 August 2019 that showed the income was in her
account. But she didnt take any action as she assumed reinvestment into the new fund was
imminent.
She received her next statement in November 2019, which showed the income was still
sitting as cash in the account  slightly diminished because some monthly account fees had
been deducted from it in the interim. Miss D contacted Fidelity and asked that the remaining
income be reinvested into the new fund.
She then complained to Fidelity that she hadnt been informed that the usual reinvestment
wouldnt take place. Fidelity upheld the complaint on the basis that the initial letter about the 
merger hadnt made clear the situation with reinvestment. It corrected Miss Ds account by 
determining the number of additional shares that couldve been purchased if she had
reinvested the cash held in her account in November 2019 earlier, in August 2019. It also 
offered her £150 to acknowledge its error in not informing her about the reinvestment 
situation, and in respect of some failures relating to its handling of her complaint.
Miss D didnt accept Fidelitys proposed resolution and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator attempted to mediate an alternative resolution between the parties. But
when no agreement could be reached, he issued a view recommending that the complaint
be upheld and proposing a new form of compensation.
This involved Fidelity putting Miss Ds account in the position it wouldve been in if shed
reinvested all the income when she received the August 2019 statement and that the
subsequent monthly account fees had, as a result, been paid for by the sale of shares rather
than from the income sitting as cash on the account.
Miss D broadly accepted the proposal, but Fidelity didnt. It felt she should, upon receipt of
the August 2019 statement, have noted that reinvestment hadnt taken place and have acted
to mitigate the issue by reinvesting then.
Fidelity also noted that the investigators proposed resolution involved it performing the
required calculations and submitting to Miss D what the resulting compensation would be in
terms of the number of shares it would need to add to her account, so she could decide
whether to accept the resolution. Fidelity felt that Miss Ds acceptance of the redress, in the
event it was required, should be on the basis of the principle behind it rather than the value.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matter was referred to me to
review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said, in part:
Fidelity has accepted that it made a mistake in not making clear in its letter of 5 June 2019
that automatic reinvestment of income from the Money Builder fund wouldnt be possible
once the fund had merged. That being so, I must decide what represents fair compensation
for the mistake.
I think that if the letter had highlighted that automatic reinvestment wouldnt be possible for
any income received from the fund once it was merged, Miss D would most likely have acted
to make sure that reinvestment did happen promptly. She may well have contacted Fidelity
immediately upon receipt of the letter to enquire about how subsequent income might be
handled. But I dont imagine it wouldve been possible to do anything before the income was
actually paid, so I think it would probably have been the case that upon receipt of the August
statement she wouldve contacted Fidelity to manually reinvest.
Given that Miss D has confirmed she had sight of the statement on 10 August 2010, I think
its reasonable to conclude she wouldve contacted Fidelity on the next trading day, 12
August 2019, to arrange the reinvestment.
Fidelity has suggested that this is something she couldve done in any event to mitigate her
position, given the information contained in the August 2019 statement. I appreciate its point
and I acknowledge that Miss D has at various points said that she understood that
reinvestment was usually immediate. So, it can be argued that when she saw in the August
statement that the income hadnt been immediately reinvested, this shouldve put her on
notice that something was wrong.
But the statement showed that the income had been paid on 2 August 2019. It gave an
account valuation of 4 August 2019 and was dated 6 August 2019. Given the proximity of
these dates, I dont think it was unreasonable for Miss D to assume that automatic
reinvestment was simply yet to take place. Had there been a bigger gap between the dates 
for instance, a week or more  then I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect her to 
question whether reinvestment was going to happen in a timely manner. But given it was 
only a matter of a couple of days, on balance, I dont think she ought reasonably to have 
been prompted to act.
But I think that if the 5 June 2019 letter had put Miss D on notice that automatic reinvestment
wasnt going to happen on this occasion, she wouldve acted promptly on receipt of the
statement and contacted Fidelity. The income wouldve been duly reinvested on 12 August
2019 and subsequent payments of the monthly account fees wouldve been made from the
sale of shares rather than from cash, as none (or no more than a minimal amount) wouldve
been on the account. So, I think its fair that Fidelity reconstruct the position of the account
so it is now as it would be if that had happened.
For clarity, its my intention  assuming I issue a final decision that reflects what Ive said
above  that my direction to Fidelity will to be to reconstruct the position of Miss Ds account
by way of the addition of shares, if applicable. I dont intend to ask Fidelity to perform any
calculations in advance of the acceptance of the decision. It will be for Miss D to decide
whether she accepts the compensation in principle.Fidelity accepted my provisional decision.
Miss D made some further comments primarily relating to the process going forward if she 
accepted my decision, which she indicated was her intention. She confirmed she was 
content with the figure of £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Miss D also stressed that if Fidelity had made clear in its letter of 5 June 2019 that dividends 
wouldnt be reinvested, she wouldve acted to let it know that she wished this to continue, in 
line with the whole period during which Fidelity had managed the investment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I remain of the view that the 
complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
Fidelity must reconstruct Miss Ds account as it would now be if the income had been 
reinvested on 12 August 2019 and subsequent payments of the monthly account fees had 
been made from the sale of shares rather than from cash.
Clear calculations showing the methodology of the reconstruction and its outcome should be 
provided to Miss D. 
Fidelity should also make a payment of £150 to reflect the trouble and upset caused to 
Miss D by the matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Financial 
Administration Services Limited to pay compensation to Miss D as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman