DRN-3653289
The complaint
D, a limited company, has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited didnt settle 
its business interruption insurance claim in full after its business was affected by the Covid-
19 pandemic.
Mr M, a director of D, has brought the complaint on Ds behalf.
What happened
D runs a hair and beauty salon.
It made a claim to Hiscox for its business interruption losses after its business was closed 
following three sets of lockdown restrictions. Hiscox treated the losses resulting from 
restrictions imposed in March 2020 as the first claim, losses resulting from restrictions in 
November 2020 as the second claim and losses resulting from restrictions in January 2021 
as the third claim.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) pursued a business interruption insurance test 
case in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings, including different 
types of Hiscox policies, and how they should respond to the pandemic. The Supreme Court 
handed down its judgment in January 2021. 
Following the outcome of the test case Hiscox agreed to settle the first claim in March 2021. 
It said the second and third claims werent covered because the policy ended on 
5 September 2020 before Ds salon was required to close during the second and third 
lockdowns. When the policy was renewed, cover for losses caused by Covid-19 was 
excluded. 
D was unhappy with that outcome. It also complained about the delay in dealing with its 
claim and a lack of communication. Hiscox didnt change its decision.
D brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He didnt think Hiscox had treated D unfairly.
As D didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ds business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Hiscox paid Ds first claim under the following clause in the policy which covered business 
interruption losses caused by:
your inability to use the business premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority during the period of insurance following:

an occurrence of any notifiable human disease within one mile of the business 
premises.
Ds policy was in force between 6 September 2019 and 5 September 2020. Anything giving 
rise to the loss or damage claimed for must have happened during this period of insurance. 
The indemnity period is defined in the policy as:
the period, in months, beginning at the date of the insured damage or insured failure, or 
the date the restriction is imposed, and lasting for the period during which your gross profit 
is affected as a result of such insured damage, insured failure or restriction, but for no 
longer than the number of months shown in the schedule.
The number of months shown in the schedule is 12 months. 
If I understand him correctly, Mr M thinks that the 12-month indemnity period should run from 
the start of the first lockdown. He doesnt accept that Ds losses during the second and third 
lockdowns were separate events and thinks it is wrong that they should be treated as 
separate claims.
However, as Ds loss was caused by the imposition of restrictions following an occurrence of 
a notifiable human disease within one mile of its premises, I think the relevant period for the 
purpose of the indemnity period must be the period during which restrictions were in force 
requiring the business to close. Ds policy doesnt cover Covid-19 in general.
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law and I think the 
judgments in the cases of Stonegate Pub Company Ltd v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd 
and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm) (Stonegate), Greggs PLC v Zurich Insurance PLC 
[2022] EWHC 2545 (Comm) (Greggs) and Various Eateries Trading Ltd v Allianz Insurance 
PLC [2002] EWHC 2549 (Comm) (VE) are helpful when considering this complaint. Thats 
because, one of the issues considered by the Court was whether losses sustained beyond 
the expiry date of the policies were caused by occurrences of Covid-19 when the policy was 
in force. 
In Stonegate the relevant period of insurance came to an end on 30 April 2020. The court 
said (at paragraph 209):
after 4 July 2020 the government response, as I find from its nature and from what was 
said, was principally in response to the subsequent developments of the disease and the 
threat it posed from time to time. Those responses were not equally caused by the cases 
before the end of the Period of Insurance, but rather were predominantly caused by more 
recent cases, and the threat of future cases, at the time of the adoption of the measure in 
question. 
In VE the period of insurance came to an end on 28 September 2020. At paragraph 48 the 
court summarised the findings from Stonegate to reject VEs argument that losses 
throughout the maximum indemnity period had been caused concurrently and equally by all 
the cases of Covid-19 which had occurred within the relevant radius. The court said: 
(1) the decisions in the FCA Test Case do not establish that all cases of Covid-19, 
whenever occurring, were equal concurrent causes of the governmental actions and public 
response at any given time; (2) the fact that the cases of the disease occurred in Period of Insurance may have caused 
the later cases of the disease (because cases make cases) is not sufficient to say that the 
cases of the disease in the Period of Insurance were the proximate cause of governmental 
measures and public response after the Period of Insurance; and 
(3) the death blow or grip of the peril principle is inapplicable. 
In Greggs, the court said at paragraph 39: 
it appears highly doubtful that, on any view, there can be said to have been only one 
period of interruption or interference. It seems certain that the degree of interruption or 
interference with Greggs business changed over time between the first cases of Covid-19 
and the end of the Indemnity Period
I believe that the judgments referred to above support my view that Ds losses from 
November 2020 werent caused by restrictions within the indemnity period of the policy and 
so Hiscox acted fairly in treating losses arising from the second and third lockdowns as not 
being covered after renewal of the policy which began in September 2020.
I think the fact that D was unable to use its premises due to the further restrictions 
implemented in November 2020 would need to be a new claim, under the policy which 
commenced on 6 September 2020 as this is the policy which was in place when the new 
period of loss started. 
When the policy was renewed on 6 September 2020, the definition of notifiable human 
disease was amended to include certain specified diseases but not including Covid-19. It is 
up to Hiscox which risks it chooses to cover. In addition Hiscox said it wouldnt pay for any 
business interruption loss caused by a communicable disease. The term communicable 
disease is defined as:
Any communicable, infectious or contagious disease, including any related variation, strain, 
virus, complex or syndrome.
Since Covid-19 doesnt fall within the definition of a notifiable human disease but does fall 
within the definition of a communicable disease, cover is specifically excluded. So I think 
Hiscox was entitled to say that losses arising from Covid-19 after 6 September 2020 werent 
covered by the policy in force at that time.
Lastly, Ive looked at how Hiscox handled the claim. D initially contacted Hiscox about its 
claim in October 2020 although it didnt lodge full details of the claim until later. Hiscox 
acknowledged the claim promptly and told D about the FCA test case. About two weeks after 
the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case, Hiscox told D it might be entitled to claim 
and invited it to provide details of its loss. After further correspondence between the loss 
adjuster acting for Hiscox and Ds accountant Hiscox made an offer to settle the first claim 
and made an interim payment at the end of March 2021. D was also advised in March 2021 
that the second and third claims wouldnt be covered. Bearing in mind the volume of claims 
that Hiscox had to deal with following the conclusion of the FCA test case, Im not persuaded 
that there was any unreasonable delay on the part of Hiscox. 
Its natural under the circumstances that Mr M was anxious to hear from Hiscox as soon as 
possible. But having reviewed the correspondence, I dont think there were any serious 
failings on the part of Hiscox with regard to communication.
I recognise that this isnt the outcome D was hoping for, but having considered things very 
carefully, I believe that Hiscoxs decision to cease paying Ds claim from July 2020 was fair and reasonable and in line with the policy terms. Therefore, I dont intend to uphold its 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman