DRN-3401136
The complaint
The estate of Mr L complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) hasnt correctly calculated the
compensation for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) on the late Mr Ls store
card.
What happened
Briefly:
In 2020 The estate of Mr L made a PPI mis-selling complaint to AXA, which it subsequently
upheld. But AXA said that because a claim amount in excess of £5,000 had previously been
paid out, no refund was due  the claim amount exceeded the PPI refund.
I issued my provisional decision of February 2022 in which I said I was minded to uphold the 
complaint and direct AXA to pay some of the PPI compensation direct to the estate of Mr L. I 
said I had reached this conclusion because AXAs records appeared to show an error in the 
amount of the claim at the time  it was duplicated  so the claim amount did not likely 
exceed the PPI refund.
The estate of Mr L didnt reply to my provisional decision.
AXA replied and said it agreed with my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Im mindful that AXA says it agrees with the conclusions reached in my provisional 
decision, for the sake of completeness Im issuing a final decision. 
For the reasons Ive set out below, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and make an award 
in the estate of Mr Ls favour. 
It is not disputed that there was a successful claim made on the late Mr Ls store card. The
claim was made following Mr Ls death. According to the policy terms and conditions, for a
life claim the benefit amount equals the outstanding card balance at the time and no more.
According to AXA the amount of the claim was £5,532 and it has provided three internal
screenshots as evidence of the claim and the amounts paid. 
AXA has also provided as part of its submissions system notes recorded against the late Mr 
Ls account as well as balance and credit limit history. Ive reviewed this carefully alongside 
the information provided by the estate of Mr L.
Having done so, Im not persuaded by what AXA says  I dont think the amount of the 
successful claim was £5,532. I say this because firstly the three internal system screenshots 
AXA has provided which detail the claims are in my view duplicates. Each of the three 
records refer to the same claim event of 2 November 1999 and all record the same benefit 
payment amount of £1,844. This strikes me as odd  a life claim is only paid once and as I 
said above the payment should be for the outstanding card balance at the time and no more. 
In this case it appears AXA considers there were three claim amounts of £1,844  hence the 
three claim records - which gives the figure of £5,532 it is quoting.
For a claim amount of £5,532 to have been paid out, the late Mr Ls store card outstanding
balance wouldve had to equal this amount. But Ive not seen anything to indicate it was at
this level. Firstly according to AXAs records the credit limit was around £3,000; secondly the
highest recorded balance was just over £1,900; and thirdly the estate of Mr L says the
outstanding balance in November 1999 was around £1,800 (Ive seen a statement from 
September 1999, which shows a balance of around £1880.) And these figures pretty much
correspond with each claim record amount of £1,844.
So taking everything into account, I think the outstanding card balance at the time
of the successful claim was £1,844  hence the figure quoted on the claim records.
To further support my view that AXAs claims records have been duplicated, Ive looked at
the system notes AXA has provided for the late Mr Ls account. Looking at these, I can see a
series of notes from 14 January 2000 to 7 March 2000, which refer to the PPI insurance
claim. While I cannot decipher the entire series of entries because it has been written in
some kind of short-hand, importantly I can make out reference to the insurance claim having
been paid twice and the overpayment sent back. There are two references here on two
different dates to the claim being paid twice. So it seems there was an error with the PPI
claim amount.
I think this is important evidence. I say this because when it is tested against the other
evidence both parties have provided, I think it supports the likelihood that AXAs claims
records have been duplicated. In my view only one claim record is accurate  I think there
was only one successful claim (it was a life claim after all) for the outstanding card balance,
which was likely £1,844. Nothing I have seen supports AXAs assertion that the benefit claim
amount was in excess of that.
This means I think the estate of Mr L is owed some of the calculated PPI refund
because Im not persuaded that the true claim amount exceeds the refund of premiums
including interest.
I understand that while AXA doesnt have all of the store card account transaction history
from the start of the account to its end date, it has said that it knows the total PPI premiums
paid, the total interest charged and the total spend on the account. So I currently have no
reason to question the fairness of the calculation AXA carried out in arriving at the PPI
refund amount of £3,564.08.
Putting things right
AXA needs to put things right because Im not persuaded the successful claim amount
exceeds the amount of the PPI refund for the reasons Ive set out above. So AXA should do 
the following:
Pay the estate of Mr L the amount of PPI compensation which exceeds the likely claim
amount of £1,844 i.e. £1,720.08 (£3,564.08 minus £1,844)
Because the estate of Mr L has been out of the money, AXA should add interest on the
award amount of £1,720.08 at a rate of 8% simple per year  from November 2020 (the date
of its final response) to the date of payment. HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give the 
estate of Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if it ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons above Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I direct AXA France IARD 
to pay the estate of Mr L compensation as Ive set out in the section above. I make no other 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr L 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman