DRN-3784810
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim under a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C held a travel insurance policy through a bank account, and the policy covered her 
family. The insurer was UKI.
Mr and Mrs C were due to return from a trip abroad, with their child, but the return flight was 
cancelled by the airline. Mr and Mrs C arranged their own return back to the UK, and they 
made a claim for these costs to UKI.
UKI considered the claim under a section in the policy for Delayed Or Missed Departure 
but declined it as this section excluded cover for any claim where the aircraft, ship or train 
on which you are booked to travel is cancelled by the operator. Mr and Mrs C didnt think 
UKI had acted fairly, so they brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having done so, he thought UKI 
had acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, when 
it declined the claim. This was because of the above policy exclusion, and there was no 
other section in the policy that wouldve covered the situation Mr and Mrs C found 
themselves in.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Mr and Mrs C say their return flight was cancelled by the airline. And I can see that this 
situation is specifically excluded under the Delayed Or Missed Departure section of the 
policy. Ive also looked through the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, and I cant 
see that the situation Mr and Mrs C found themselves in is covered under any other section 
either. So, I think UKI acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy, when it declined the claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C. Its clear that their return journey back home was 
distressing, and I sympathise with the situation they found themselves in. But that doesnt 
mean that UKI did something wrong here, as the circumstances simply arent covered by the 
policy terms. As it was the airline that cancelled the flight, its open to Mr and Mrs C to 
complain to the airline directly or get in touch with the Civil Aviation Authority, if they wish to 
do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman