DRN-2273354
The complaint
Mrs P complained because Santander UK Plc refused to refund her for five disputed debit 
card transactions.
What happened
Mrs Ps husband Mr P went on a short break abroad with a friend. He accidentally took Mrs 
Ps Santander debit card with him instead of his own. He realised when he got to his 
accommodation, and rang Mrs P who said it was fine to use the card to pay. Mrs P has 
explained that they shared finances and trusted each other completely.
Mr P and his friend watched a sports match in the morning of 2 November 2019, and spent 
the rest of the day drinking at various bars. Mr P decided hed had enough to drink, so he left 
his friend and went to get a taxi back. He said he was approached by a woman who had 
asked her to go with him. He refused but two men had appeared and threatened him. Mr P 
said his recollection of events was hazy and he believed his drink had been tampered with. 
He said he made a number of cash withdrawals under duress, with this Santander card, and 
with cards for two other banks. 
The next day, 3 November, Mr P said he woke up in a strange room, with men aggressively 
telling him to leave. He still had the card, but there was no cash in his wallet. He rang 
Santander. The bank couldnt tell him about the withdrawals because it wasnt Mr Ps 
account, but it blocked the account.
When Mr P returned home, he and Mrs P went to a Santander branch on 6 November to 
report what had happened. Five cash withdrawals had been made on the card, totalling 
£548.75. The next day, Santander phoned to say it had fully investigated, but wouldnt 
refund the money because it had been Mr P whod made the withdrawals. It was Mrs Ps 
account, and disclosing the PIN was against the terms and conditions of the account. 
Mrs P didnt believe Santander could have fully investigated in less than 24 hours and she 
complained. She said she assumed Santander had asked the ATM operators abroad for 
images from all five cash machines. Mrs P also pointed out that Santander said it had 
automated transaction monitoring, and she thought five withdrawals in a foreign country 
should have flagged as suspicious because she didnt make many cash withdrawals from 
her account.
In its final response, Santander said that when Mrs P had been issued with her card and 
PIN, shed been asked to memorise the PIN and destroy the advice slip. This was set out in 
the terms and conditions. As Mrs P had told Mr P the PIN number, Santander couldnt be 
responsible for the loss. Santander recommended reporting this to the police, who could 
request CCTV which Santander wasnt able to do.
In relation to the transactions not having been flagged as suspicious, Santander said that the 
withdrawals had been made with the genuine card, and correct PIN, with no failed PIN 
attempts, which was why they hadnt been flagged.
Mrs P wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She set out what had happened, and 
said that the other banks had refunded them without doubting their integrity. Mrs P said that 
she wanted Santander to follow the other banks examples and refund the £548.75 total of 
the five withdrawals. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. He said that the relevant regulations said 
that account holders must use their card in accordance with the account terms and 
conditions, and had to keep their personal security credentials, such as the PIN, safe. The 
investigator explained that the payments became authorised because Mrs P had allowed 
Mr P to use the card on his trip.
Mrs P didnt agree. She accepted that Santanders rules said customers mustnt disclose 
PIN numbers, but said it seemed that was as far as Santanders investigation had gone. She 
felt it had used this rule to deny honest customers a refund when a crime had been 
committed, even though Santander was probably insured against such claims.
Mrs P also said that neither Santander nor the investigator had mentioned the supposedly 
sophisticated software to monitor unusual activity. She said five cash withdrawals in under 
an hour, from an account never used for cash withdrawals, would count as unusual. Mrs P 
agreed that they hadnt followed the rules, but said nor had Santander, so a fair outcome 
would be some compensation if not the full amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs P is upset and frustrated at not getting a refund in the circumstances. 
But my job is to look at whether Santanders reply to Mrs Ps complaint was fair within what 
the relevant regulations say it has to do.
Regulations
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions which took place in November 2019 are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Santander) must show the payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, 
Mrs Ps genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the disputed 
payments were authenticated. Mrs P doesnt dispute this, but its necessary to look at the 
various steps involved in a transaction.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. This is the key issue here, because Mrs 
P had authorised her husband to use her card, and he keyed in the PIN number using the 
genuine card, though he said he was doing so under duress.
Regulation 72 of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 says that cards must be used in 
accordance with the terms and conditions. And Section 7.2 of Santanders terms and 
conditions said:
We will not refund you in any circumstances if:

 (aii) someone else used your card with your agreement;
 (bii) you deliberately, or with gross negligence, disclosed your PIN or Personal Security 
Details to someone else.
So under the relevant regulations, and the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps account, the bank 
isnt liable if the account holder  Mrs P  disclosed her PIN to a third party, her husband. 
Thats what happened, so Santander isnt liable.
I realise that Mrs P feels that this is harsh in the circumstances, and I sympathise with her. 
So Ive considered whether any of the circumstances mean that Santander should have 
been flexible about providing a refund.
Investigation and what might have happened
Santander turned down Mrs Ps complaint in less than a day, which she feels means it 
hadnt bothered to do any real investigation, such as getting CCTV images from the five 
cash machines abroad. I do understand why she feels unhappy that Santander had just 
relied on the rules about not disclosing her PIN, though this is what the regulations and 
terms and conditions say.  
Mrs P hasnt said, but its possible that the cards with the other two banks, which she said 
gave refunds, were in Mr Ps own name. But even if Mr P had been using his own card at the 
time, Santander wouldnt have carried out the investigation into the cash machines and any 
CCTV itself. Only the police can request CCTV from the provider. In any event, Im only 
investigating the individual circumstances of this complaint against Santander here.
This leads on to the fact that theres no evidence that Mr P reported the matter to the local 
police abroad. Id have expected him to do so to report a crime. If Mr P had done so, its 
more likely there would have been CCTV still available, which the police could have 
requested and examined. 
The first disputed transaction took place at 22:44 on 2 November, and the last at 11:14 on 3 
November. But Mrs P didnt report it to Santander until 6 November. That seems very 
strange, especially if something as shocking as being held under duress had taken place. 
And Mr P still had the card when he returned home, and Mrs P took it into the branch when 
she did report the problem on 6 November. It seems very unlikely that fraudsters who had 
held Mr P under duress and forced him to enter the PIN, wouldnt have kept the card and 
used their knowledge of the PIN to gain even more money.
As:
- theres no evidence that Mr P reported anything to the local police abroad;
- Mrs P didnt report such a shocking incident to Santander for several days; and
- the card wasnt kept by the fraudsters in order to maximise their gain,
I consider its not likely that the events happened as Mrs P reported them to Santander. I 
consider its more likely that Mr P authorised the transactions willingly.
Atypical usage of the card
Mrs P is also unhappy that the transactions werent stopped on the grounds they were 
unusual for her typical usage of the card as she didnt withdraw cash from this account. 
Although I understand her point, the problem is that the five withdrawals were made using 
the genuine card and the correctly PIN. Chip technology is complex and sophisticated, and 
there have been no known instances when the chip in the card has been successfully copied. This means that when the computer records show that the genuine card and chip 
has been used, the withdrawals are taken as not suspect. 
Thats particularly the case when the correct PIN has been used. Ive checked the computer 
records for these withdrawals, to make sure this happened, and they show that the genuine 
chip was read, and that the correct PIN was entered. 
There were also other transactions in the same geographical area as the disputed 
transactions. And its not unusual for cash to be withdrawn for these amounts when abroad. 
But in any case, I dont consider it would have made any difference if Santander had alerted 
Mrs P to the payments and had asked if they were genuine. She knew that Mr P had the 
card, and was using it in that geographical area with her permission. Shes said the card 
would be used as backup if Mr P ran out of money. So I consider that if Santander had 
asked Mrs P about these payments, she wouldnt have been concerned and would have 
said they could go ahead. 
 
And I have also found that the most likely explanation is that these were withdrawals which 
Mr P wanted to make. 
So although I understand Mrs Ps unhappiness, I consider that Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably when it refused to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman