DRN-3551131
The complaint
Mr B complains HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt treat him fairly when he had difficulties making 
repayments to his credit card account. 
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will only provide a summary of 
the key points. 
Mr B held a credit card account with HSBC which had an outstanding balance. Due to the 
impact of the Covid pandemic, Mr B contacted HSBC and requested a payment holiday. 
HSBC agreed to this, and a payment break was in place between April 2020 and June 2020. 
Mr B says that between December 2020 to February 2021 he tried to contact HSBC to 
explain he was facing further difficulties in meeting his repayments because his income had 
been impacted by the pandemic. And that he applied on-line for a payment holiday extension 
in February 2021.But didnt receive any contact from HSBC. 
While Mr B later recommenced his monthly payments, as several monthly repayments, the 
minimum payment required had not been met and the credit limit was exceeded, HSBC 
issued a default notice in July 2021.Subsequently, a final demand was issued in September 
2021 and the account was closed. 
Mr B raised a complaint with HSBC about the service he received and its handling of his 
account. HSBC looked into Mr Bs concerns and responded in various letters. Overall HSBC 
explained that although there had been some Covid related delays in responding to Mr B, it 
had taken steps to contact Mr B and explain how he could move forward with his account.
Mr B was not happy with HSBCs review of his case so referred his complaint to this service. 
The investigator looked into the merits of this case and found HSBC had acted fairly in its 
handling of his account and applying the default. 
Mr B remained unhappy, so the case has been referred to me  an ombudsman  for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and many complaint points have 
been raised. I will, however, focus on issues which are relevant for me to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome on the crux of this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service. But Id like to reassure 
Mr B that Ive considered all hes told us and provided us, as I have with HSBCs 
submissions too.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Bs experience over the past few years and the impact the Covid 
pandemic had on his finances. I understand that having a default on his credit file will impact 
on his ability to obtain further credit in the future. Mr B says HSBC has acted unfairly. Based 
on the evidence I have seen, I dont think it did. Ill explain why. 
Mr B has raised many concerns about the service he received from HSBC, in particular, he 
says there was a lack of communication when he asked for help. Mr B has a long-standing 
relationship with HSBC given his account was opened in 1996. I have focused on the events 
from March 2020 onwards in my decision. 
It seems Mr Bs initial payment holiday was granted in April 2020. Mr B hasnt raised any 
specific concerns about the service he received during this period. And Im satisfied HSBC 
treated Mr B fairly here  it acted positively and sympathetically by agreeing a payment 
holiday when Mr B was in financial difficulty in line with the temporary Covid relief guidance 
issued to lenders by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).    
Ive seen evidence that Mr B was then able to make his contractual payments from then on 
until November 2020, when HSBCs records show Mr B missed a payment. And Ive seen 
that Mr B contacted HSBC in late 2020 and early 2021 about his repayment options using 
HSBCs online secure messaging service and, subsequently, about the lack of response. 
Ive also seen that Mr B applied on-line for a payment holiday in February 2021. I note Mr B 
says the system didnt confirm if his application had been approved or not. HSBC has 
provided a screen shot of the application Mr B made and Im satisfied that the on-line 
application Mr B completed was intended for customers who hadnt applied for a payment 
holiday before. And in this case, Mr B had had a previous holiday. The screen shot shows 
that there was a link that the applicant needed to access if they wanted to apply for an 
extension. So, Im persuaded Mr B would have known that he needed to do more before his 
application could be improved
Its not exactly clear what happened next, but Ive seen that Mr B provided income and 
expenditure details. So, I think its most likely that Mr B did this because that is what the 
application process prompted him to do as he was requesting a second payment holiday. 
But HSBC has said it wasnt fully completed and that Mr B needed to contact the financial 
support team as it needed further information. Ive looked at a copy of the income and 
expenditure details provided by Mr B, and Im satisfied that the form wasnt fully completed. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to ask Mr B to contact it to discuss his 
application further. 
HSBC has provided its records which show Mr B was contacted numerous times over the 
coming months about his request via text. Mr B doesnt dispute receiving these messages, 
but he questions why he was receiving these messages as he expected to be contact via 
another method. HSBC explained to him that he needed to get in touch about his repayment 
holiday request. I understand Mr B may have been expecting a written response or email 
from HSBC, but I think the number of requests he received shouldve prompted him to 
contact the relevant team as his application required a discussion. 
I can see Mr B contacted HSBC again in April 2021 and he was advised by HSBC to book 
an appointment with the collections team regarding his account. I appreciate Mr B was eager 
to secure a payment holiday, but in addition to the text messages, Ive seen other  
communications that were sent to him about his account which showed the outstanding 
balance, the minimum payments required and that the account went over the credit limit. I 
think Mr B ought to have known the account needed to be discussed before any 
arrangement could be agreed. And Ive seen that HSBC continued to send multiple 
messages and emails asking Mr B to call them.I acknowledge that due to Mr Bs employment, calling wasnt an easy option for him. But 
given the nature of the discussion that needed to take please. Im persuaded that asking 
Mr B to call was reasonable. By texting and asking him to call  rather than calling him 
directly, meant Mr B could call HSBC at a time convenient to him. But Ive not seen anything 
that would persuade that Mr B called HSBC and eventually a default notice was sent in July 
2021. 
Throughout this period HSBC also looked into the complaint points Mr B had raised, and he 
had a separate stream of communication regarding his concerns. HSBC explained its 
process for missed direct debits, the payment cycle for his account and it acknowledged the 
delays Mr B experienced. HSBC said there was a delay in getting back to Mr B in the early 
part of 2021 as it was receiving a large number of queries due to the ongoing impact the 
pandemic was having upon its customers. I appreciate the delay wouldve been frustrating 
for Mr B, but I think HSBCs apology and explanation about the delay is reasonable. Overall, 
I dont think the service provided by HSBC was so poor that compensation would be 
appropriate. 
During his complaint correspondence Mr B was also encouraged to contact HSBC regarding 
his outstanding balance. I appreciate Mr B was in touch with HSBC via various channels, but 
within the communication about his complaints no agreement was reached about how to 
clear the balance on his account. This remained the fundamental issue, and without a clear 
idea of what Mr B was willing to do with the account there was no way to move forward with 
any form of arrangement. 
Mr B feels the default has been unfairly applied to the account as he was willing to reach an 
agreement with HSBC, hence his request for a repayment holiday. Mr B had already been 
granted a payment holiday from April 2020 to June 2020. I think its reasonable that his 
request for an additional one would require a more detailed consideration by HSBC. I must 
also highlight that when an account is in arrears, a lender can register a default, even if an 
arrangement to pay or some other temporary arrangement has been agreed. The Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 says that a lender must issue a notice of default setting out what the 
consumer needs to do to bring the account back up to date and tell the customer the date by 
which this needs to happen. In this case, the arrears accrued because Mr B didnt make the 
contractual payments as set out in his statements. The default notice issued to Mr B 
explained what this meant for Mr B and the steps he could take. So, I am satisfied HSBC 
has acted in line with the relevant legislation and regulations.
It is clear Mr B would like HSBC to remove the adverse information that is recorded on his 
credit file. He says he has been a long-standing customer of HSBCs and prior to the 
pandemic he had always made the necessary repayments. Ultimately, while Mr B did make 
some repayments from April 2021, Mr B didnt pay enough to meet the minimum payment 
required at this time (as detailed on his statements) and HSBC is obliged to accurately report 
the status of Mr Bs account. Im therefore not going to require HSBC to change the 
information it recorded. I know Mr B will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on 
his complaint. But this final decision ends what our service can do for him. However, he can 
reject my decision and pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 Chandni Green
Ombudsman