DRN-4049394
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs C are joint policy holders. As most of the communication relating to the 
complaint has been from Mr C, Ill refer mainly to him in my decision.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr C made a claim under his home insurance policy with Hiscox after 
his electric roller shutter garage door stopped working properly. The door wasnt coming 
down evenly, which meant one side had to be manually pulled down to close it. The installer 
of the door was no longer in business. Mr C had arranged for another installer to assess the 
door before making his claim.
Hiscox declined his claim. It said their were policy exclusions for faulty workmanship or 
design as well as for mechanical breakdown that would apply.
Mr C complained to Hiscox but it maintained its position. So, he asked our service to 
consider the matter. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She thought Hiscox had acted fairly, in line with the policys terms and conditions.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators outcome. He was unhappy that Hiscox hadnt visited 
his home and seen the garage door in situ after hed asked it to do so on at least two 
occasions. He said Hiscox hadnt spoken to the installer of the new door as requested even 
though it had declined the claim based on their comments. 
Mr C said he didnt believe materials and workmanship of his original door were inferior. He 
thought the problem would have materialised much sooner if they had been. 
Mr C said he was also concerned that the timing of his claim might have had an impact on 
how Hiscox dealt with it. He said he had already told Hiscox he wouldnt be renewing the 
policy after 14 years without a claim.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms of the policy covered Mr and Mrs Cs home against physical loss or physical 
damage which happen(ed) during the period of insurance.
However, Hiscox says Mr and Mrs Cs claim isnt covered by the terms, because of the 
following exclusions:
Wear and tear, rust, rot, fungus or mould, normal settlement or anything which 
happens gradually.
faulty workmanship or design, or the use of unsuitable or faulty materials
mechanical or electrical faults or breakdown
I can see that Mr C forwarded an email from the installation company who assessed the 
door (company E) to Hiscox. This says: we can confirm that the motor and safety 
mechanism had failed causing the main elements of the door to fail. This also caused further 
damage to the shutter end plates and lathe quirks, rendering the door economically 
irreparable as both the products used and the original manufacturer are no longer in 
business...
Hiscox says it spoke to company E who confirmed that products used by the original fitters 
were inferior and due to this the material of the door had peeled and come away, causing 
the door to fail. Its provided an email from E which confirms the discussion, along with 
photographs to support this. 
Mr C disputes the reason given by E. He believes that the problem would have occurred 
much sooner if the materials or workmanship were inferior. He says the door was installed 
five and a half years before the issue occurred. However, Mr C hasnt provided any expert 
evidence to support this. So, I havent found reason to doubt the expertise of company E.
Even if there was evidence to show that faulty materials werent used by the original fitters, 
I think at least one of the other two exclusions Hiscox has referred to would apply.
I think its reasonable for Hiscox to have concluded that there was a premature failure of the 
mechanism of the door, which means that the mechanical or electrical faults or breakdown 
exclusion would apply. Theres nothing to suggest that the damage was caused by a 
sudden, one-off event, so I think its also reasonable to conclude that the damage happened 
gradually. 
I appreciate Mr C feels that Hiscox should have sent an engineer over to assess the garage 
door themselves. However, Im not persuaded that it was obliged to do so.
I can see that Mr and Mrs Cs cover was about to end when they made the claim. However, 
Ive explained why I think it was fair for Hiscox to decline their claim. And Im not persuaded 
that Mr and Mrs Cs decision not to renew their policy had any bearing on the outcome of it. 
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs C. However, Im satisfied that 
Hiscox has acted reasonably and in line with the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Anne MuscroftOmbudsman