DRN-4281573
The complaint
Mr B says First 4 Financial Planning Ltd (F4FPL) mainly did as follows:
Gave him unsuitable pension planning/investment advice (initial and ongoing).   
[issue 1]
Mis-sold, to him, its pension/investment management service; did not deliver the 
pension/investment management service he paid for; mismanaged his pensions 
investments; and breached his investment instructions. [issue 2]
He says the above, between 2009 and 2022, led to woeful underperformance of his 
pensions investments and a significant loss of value in his pension. He holds F4FPL 
responsible for this, and he also seeks personal accountability from its principal for her 
misconduct in the matter (which he alleges).
F4FPL disputes the complaint.
What happened
There is evidence from another firm, Investec Wealth & Investment Limited (Investec), that 
confirms it undertook (from F4FPL) responsibility for servicing Mr Bs pension from October 
2020 onwards. The evidence also confirms that Investec has already addressed his 
complaint (against Investec) about its advice/servicing from then and up to October 2022 
(when its service ended). Investec identified matters in the complaint that it upheld and 
offered compensation to Mr B.
Key events prior to October 2020 can be summarised as follows:
In 2009 Mr B had a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) that was held with 
Pointon York (PY). Investment of the PY SIPP was under the Discretionary Fund 
Management (DFM) of Quilter. This arrangement continued until 2014, by which 
time the PY SIPP business had been acquired by Suffolk Life (SL), so SL was the 
SIPP provider in 2014.
Mr B says he first met F4FPLs principal at a social gathering, where she introduced 
herself and presented him with her professional financial advice and management 
service to consider. He says she gave assurances of a high-level service that, though 
more expensive, offered continuous and active investment monitoring and 
management to ensure maximum pension growth; and that he explained to her his 
unique professional circumstances and personal needs, so she was aware of these 
from the outset.
Mr B was assessed as having a medium to high risk profile in 2008. He was 
assessed as having the same risk profile in 2014. However, he says he never asked 
for his SIPP to be managed by F4FPL on the basis of risk profiles and that, instead, 
he expected specific investments to be made, but they were not.
The financial/pension planning report produced for him, by F4FPL, in July 2014 
summarised the SIPP mainly as follows  it began in August 2008; its value in 2014 
was just under £230,000; regular premiums were £2,880 per year; there was no exit 
fee, there was no crystallised fund and no guaranteed annuity; his selected 
retirement age was 60 (with an option for 55); the SIPPs investment funds were 
under Quilters Portfolio Management Service (PMS); and the associated charges 
included £255+VAT (or approximately 0.15%) per year SIPP fees and 1.91% per 
year management fees for Quilters PMS. 
F4FPLs fee for ongoing servicing of the pension was 0.75% (of its investments 
value) per year. This, on an advisory basis and as set out in the fee terms, covered 
an annual portfolio review/rebalancing (including implementation of recommended 
and agreed transactions), one face-to-face meeting per year for the annual portfolio 
review, additional meetings as and when necessary, ongoing monitoring of his 
pensions portfolio, ad-hoc rebalancing/switching advice when deemed necessary, 
the provision of updates, the setting up of payments and withdrawals, providing 
taxation notifications and annual valuation reports, and Bed and ISA/Pension 
services.
F4FPL says it negotiated the lower SIPP fee, downwards from the standard rate of 
£515+VAT, and that by the time of the report the SIPP had been moved away from 
Quilters DFM to its PMS. It says the latter was a compromise agreed by Mr B who 
was unhappy with Quilters performance at the time and had initially wanted to 
terminate its service, but settled on the move to the PMS in order to avoid charges 
that would have been applied to its liquidation of the DFM portfolio (if he terminated 
its service). It also says the move, earlier in 2014, had benefitted from the lower 
(1.91%) charge it negotiated on its behalf for the PMS.
In October 2014 Mr Bs SIPP was switched to a Standard Life Wrap Pension (the 
SLW pension), which was also a SIPP. F4FPL says it did not charge an initial fee for 
the switch and that he was able to avoid the high costs of liquidating the Quilter 
portfolio because he had already moved away from the DFM (to the PMS) at this 
point. 
From October 2014 onwards, F4FPL advised on the investments in the SLW 
pension. It says this service continued until it was terminated in August 2020. 
However, as stated earlier, Investec says the service transferred (from F4FPL) to its 
responsibility in October 2020.
The themes throughout Mr Bs complaint submissions are his assertions about 
underperformance and loss in the value of his pension portfolio, and about contribution to 
that loss from charges incurred for advice and management of the pension. To support the 
former, he presented arguments, calculations and evidence on market benchmarks. He also 
drew comparisons between his pension portfolios performance and those benchmarks (and 
comparisons with a hypothetical unmanaged portfolio) over the relevant period. 
Beyond the above, Mr B also made claims relevant to the complaint issues summarised 
above.
Issue 1
In this respect, he mainly says F4FPL failed to deliver the investment advice, for his pension, 
that he paid for and the type of advice its principal guaranteed him; that she assured him of 
financial advice to ensure growth in his pension, but the opposite turned out to be the case and he suspects she never had the ability to deliver the service she sold; that she used his 
pension as way to generate fee income for herself; that when annual reviews occurred she 
placed undue pressure on him to increase contributions to the pension and to consolidate 
other assets within it; and that over time she compounded her failures by consistently giving 
him misleading advice and updates about the state of his pensions investments and, 
sometimes, by ignoring his requests for such advice/updates.
He also claims to have been mis-sold the SLW pension.
Issue 2
Mr B says F4FPL sold its management service to him as one that would ensure his pension 
portfolio performed above market levels, so he expected performance at market levels as a 
minimum. He considers this to have been a gross misrepresentation and says he 
subsequently discovered, especially around 2021, that his portfolio had mainly been left 
broadly unmanaged (it was invested in a few funds and then left without further 
management), that associated fees had significantly eroded returns, and that the portfolio 
had underperformed the markets (and even a hypothetical unmanaged portfolio). 
He also says F4FPL failed to implement his investment instructions/ideas, but instead 
misguided itself through his risk profile, which he never expected to define the portfolios 
investments. As an example, he says there was a time when it ignored his request to switch 
from a Brewin Dolphin (BD) fund holding to a Baillie Gifford All American fund holding; that 
it was reluctant to do so and referred to fee related concerns (which he did not consider to 
be a problem); and that it eventually moved only a token amount of the portfolio to the BG 
fund. He adds that F4FPL often invested the portfolio against his wishes. 
Mr B says F4FPL compounded its lack of management by mismanaging the portfolio on the 
occasions that it took action. He says it hid the ongoing underperformance from him and 
never addressed the need to recover the portfolio from that; it was dismissive of his 
enquiries, over time, about the current states of growth (at each time) in the portfolio; it 
consistently gave him the impression the portfolio was on course for the longer-term growth 
he expected; and it never shared with him meaningful performance related information or 
information about investment strategy or fees.
F4FPLs Position 
F4FPL mainly says:
Mr B held a medium to high risk profile dating back to 2008, the same profile 
remained up to 2014 and thereafter. The investments it recommended for his 
pension portfolio matched that and the investments profiles matched his growth 
objective.
He held the PY SIPP from 2006, prior to F4FPLs existence, and he held the SLW 
pension from October 2014 onwards (and continued to hold it as of the end of its 
service in August 2020). The fees and charges associated with the SLW pension 
(including its 0.75% ongoing service fee) were transparent and agreed. Evidence of 
the actual fees/charges incurred does not support his claim about incurring £12,000 
per year in fees. The charges were on a percentage basis so they rose and fell over 
time for this reason, and because of the rises and falls in the portfolios values.
It had no role in managing the SIPPs portfolio up to 2014 because it was under 
Quilters DFM. Overall, and thereafter, it had no management responsibility for Mr Bs 
pension portfolio. It had/has no regulatory authority for investment management. Instead, it provided him with advice on investing the portfolio and its 
recommendations were executed only upon his agreement. In broad terms, the 
majority of the pension was invested in managed portfolios, including one that was 
designed and automatically rebalanced by Investec  though, from September 2020 
the rebalancing stopped, but that was Investecs responsibility. 
Reviews and review meetings were held throughout its service and full lists of funds 
and valuations were provided to Mr B annually. Portfolio reports, including 
information about fees and charges, were also produced annually, and sometimes 
more than once a year. There were also periods in which several meetings were held 
with him in addition to the annual review meeting.
Our Investigation
One of our investigators considered that advice for Mr Bs pension portfolio was the main 
issue in the complaint, and she explained, with reasons, that this service would not address 
the matter of investment performance in isolation. She concluded that the complaint should 
not be upheld. 
In the main, she found that the 2014 review had resulted from Mr Bs unhappiness with 
Quilters management of the pension portfolio; the review recommendation was the SLW 
pension, because it allowed full flexibility of funds, cheaper fund fees, flexibility at retirement, 
and ease of access and management; there is evidence that Mr B received regular portfolio 
reviews between 2014 and 2020; during this period it does not appear that his investor 
profile changed, so there was no need for a new asset allocation; F4FPLs ongoing fees 
were disclosed in the review report and Mr Bs claim about incurring £12,000 in fees per year 
is not supported by evidence; there was an increase in the fee deductions during the above 
period but that was because the fee was based on a percentage of the increasing portfolio 
value; overall, it does not appear that F4FPL gave unsuitable advice or failed to provide its 
ongoing advice service.
Mr B strongly disagreed with this outcome and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He 
mainly repeated and developed his cores submissions about underperformance, loss of 
value, the impact (and non-disclosure) of fees and, as summarised above, about issues 1 
and 2. He also emphasised the personal and professional consequences that he says have 
resulted directly from these matters. In addition, Mr B referred to a life assurance related 
grievance he had against F4FPL and a grievance related to its role in his mothers portfolio. 
In response, the investigator explained that both issues had to be pursued separately and 
distinct from the present complaint.
Furthermore, Mr B presented a list of questions he wants the Ombudsman to address. 
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a strength of feeling and conviction in the allegations and submissions that Mr B 
has presented in his case. Given that the case relates to his pension and his retirement 
plans, both of which are inherently serious subjects, the feelings, conviction and, in some 
respects, emotions he has expressed are understandable. However, my task is to determine 
the issues in his complaint fairly and neutrally, based on facts, available evidence and 
F4FPLs responsibilities towards him. I acknowledge the feelings he has expressed but my focus is, and must be, primarily on these elements.
For the above reason, I consider it important to set out parameters, with reasons, for my 
approach to the complaint.
As the investigator explained and as Mr B appears to have agreed, the matters he 
has raised about the life assurance policy and his mothers portfolio are outside the 
present complaint. I do not make any findings on these matters. 
Another claim that I will not be addressing is Mr Bs allegations against F4FPLs 
principal personally. He has alleged that she committed a personal misconduct in his 
case, including a suggestion of fraud, and he seeks her personal accountability in 
this respect. This service is not the industry regulator and our remit does not extend 
to law enforcement. Therefore, on their own, his allegation that the principal 
misconducted herself (as a regulated individual) and any suggestion of fraud within 
that allegation are beyond what I can address, and beyond the scope of this decision. 
Of course, any wrongdoings found to have been committed by F4FPL in the context 
of issues 1 and 2 will be addressed.
I endorse the investigators approach towards Mr Bs submissions about 
underperformance and associated loss of value in his pension portfolio. Investment 
performance is not a matter, on its own, that this service would normally address. An 
investments performance can be defined by a combination of factors, including the 
nature of the investments underlying activity, the state of the market(s) it is exposed 
to and wider circumstances relevant to it (such as economic, political and social 
circumstances). These were factors beyond F4FPLs control in Mr Bs case. 
However, the suitability of investments recommended to him was a matter within its 
responsibility and control, so that can and will be addressed. 
Mr B has presented specific questions he wants answered by the Ombudsman. I 
have considered those questions. They are essentially for F4FPLs principal to 
answer. They are about the intention she held behind the service she offered him; 
her capability to deliver the service she offered; whether (or not) she concealed the 
portfolios performance from him to avoid him terminating her service; why his 
portfolio was invested in managed funds instead of being managed by her; and why 
the portfolio had been unmanaged for years. It is not my role to speak for F4FPL or 
its principal, so whilst I will be addressing issues 1 and 2 and the matters related to 
them, I will not be answering these questions.
There is reliable evidence from F4FPL and, importantly, from Investec confirming that 
the formers responsibility for Mr Bs account and pension passed to the latter in late 
2020. As noted above, one says this happened in August 2020 and the other says it 
happened in October 2020. I also note that Investecs retirement planning report for 
Mr B is dated 15 September 2020. Overall, it is safe to conclude that F4FPLs 
responsibility for servicing the pension did not continue past October 2020. There is 
evidence that Mr Bs complaint to Investec, about the post-October 2020 period, has 
been addressed separately. For these reasons, I will not be considering his case 
beyond October 2020.
It is undisputed that F4FPLs actions in advising on the pensions investments did not 
begin until October 2014. Prior to that, investment of the pensions portfolio was 
under Quilters management so there was no scope for investment advice, on the 
same portfolios management, from F4FPL. For the above reasons, I consider that F4FPLs responsibility in the complaint is 
limited to the period between October 2014 and October 2020.
I understand Mr Bs references to and expectations of investment management by 
F4FPL. However, evidence of the service contracted between both parties does not 
show an investment management service from F4FPL  or, at least, not the sort of 
service that he says he expected. I summarised the terms of service above and I 
repeat that summary as follows  F4FPLs fee for ongoing servicing of the pension 
was 0.75% (of its investments value) per year. This, on an advisory basis and as set 
out in the fee terms, covered an annual portfolio review/rebalancing (including 
implementation of recommended and agreed transactions), one face-to-face meeting 
per year for the annual portfolio review, additional meetings as and when necessary, 
ongoing monitoring of his pensions portfolio, ad-hoc rebalancing/switching advice 
when deemed necessary, the provision of updates, the setting up of payments and 
withdrawals, providing taxation notifications and annual valuation reports, and Bed 
and ISA/Pension services.
F4FPLs responsibilities towards Mr B and his pension were based on these 
summarised main terms, and based on an advisory service. One in which it made 
investment recommendations to him and had no authority to execute investments 
without his agreement and/or his instruction. As such, I will be addressing issue 2 in 
the context of it advising the investment of the pension portfolio, not in the type of 
management context he has presented. 
Mr B has alleged that F4FPL made investments against his wishes and/or without his 
consent. I have not seen evidence of that. The terms of service did not allow for that, 
and available evidence is that investments in the portfolio were executed only upon 
his agreement and/or instruction. Therefore, I make no further finding on this 
allegation.
Issue 1
What was said between Mr B and F4FPLs principal when they first met each other was not 
recorded and cannot be independently verified. I acknowledge that Mr B has shared his 
recollection of the event, but F4FPL has not agreed with his description. 
Given the scope summarised above, I am not persuaded that their initial meeting  around 
2008  is as important as Mr B considers. As I said above, the period that features in the 
complaint begins in 2014 and ends in 2020, so evidence, from 2014, about the relationship, 
about F4FPLs advice and about the terms of its service is significantly more relevant than 
what it may or may not have said to Mr B in a social gathering around 2008. Notably, I have 
not seen evidence that he disputed, at the time, contents of the documentation he was given 
in 2014, so those contents can be considered reliable.
Mr B says the SLW pension was mis-sold to him. Both parties reached the point of 
considering this pension because he was unhappy with Quilters management of the SL 
SIPP portfolio. Hence F4FPLs recommendation of an alternative approach in its July 2014 
pension planning report. Later in 2014 its recommendation evolved and concluded on the 
SLW pension.
The recommendations gave Mr B detailed information about the SLW pension, including its 
key features, its associated costs and why it was being recommended. He was also given 
information about the proposed investment strategy, asset allocation and selection, and 
portfolio rebalancing. Having considered the information, they are meaningful and non-misleading. I have not found evidence to conclude that the SLW pension was 
misrepresented to Mr B.
He was assessed as having a medium to high risk profile. He says he did not agree for this 
to define how the portfolio was invested. However, the recommendations made it reasonably 
clear that they were based on considerations including his risk profile. He would have been 
aware of this and I have not seen evidence of his objection to that approach at the time. 
The risk profile was verified after the report, with Mr B completing and signing the profiling 
questionnaire in August 2014. It is noteworthy that Quilters service, up to 2014, also 
appears to have used a risk profile-based approach to investments and that he had held the 
same risk profile for years before 2014, so that approach and profile would not have been 
new to him.
In addition to addressing his concern about Quilter, Mr Bs objectives at the time were 
pension growth and tax efficient pension income. Inheritance Tax planning is also mentioned 
in the report. He was within 10 years of his optional and selected retirement ages; he was 
self-employed; he was in a long-term project at the time but there is evidence suggesting 
there was generally some potential for gaps between his projects; he earned a relatively high 
income (with a healthy level of monthly disposable income after expenses); and he had 
assets outside his pension, including a cash holding of around £50,000. 
In this overall context, and given his responses to the profiling questionnaire. I consider that 
his risk profile began at medium but went beyond that, and I can understand how some of 
his questionnaire responses led to room being left in the profile for higher risks  hence the 
medium to high risk profile. 
His objectives required a certain level of exposure to risk in order to achieve growth 
(including ongoing growth to sustain income withdrawals). He had the financial capacity for 
the profile. Altogether, his questionnaire responses (for example, responses confirming that 
he could take more risk than the average person but that he could also be described as a 
moderate risk taker) were consistent with the medium to high risk profile.
Valuation and performance reports for the portfolio, during the relevant period, have been 
shared with us and have been helpful. The investments initially recommended, and 
constituted in the portfolio, were as follows:
It was split between an Investment Holdings (IH) section and a Managed Portfolio 
(MP) section (containing a BD growth MPS). As of October 2014, around £224,000 
was assigned to the former and around £3,500 to the latter. The same asset 
allocation percentages (as I summarise next) were applied to both.
 
Review and valuation evidence from the time suggests that, at first, the entire 
portfolio was invested in money market instruments (including cash). This changed 
relatively quickly. By January 2015 around 75% of the portfolio was invested in 
money market instruments (including cash), which essentially meant exposure to the 
short-term financing markets; 3% of it was invested in bonds; a total of around 18% 
invested in Overseas and UK equities; and the remainder was in property, multi asset 
and specialist funds.
On balance, I do not consider that the portfolio was suitably constituted to begin with. Its 
heavy weighting in money market securities holdings (around three quarters of the entire 
portfolio) caused a lack of asset class diversification and, given the relatively lower risk 
nature that such holdings can have, it meant the portfolio probably did not match Mr Bs 
medium to high risk profile. Instead, it might be said to have had a low to medium risk profile.However, the complaint is not about the initial advice in isolation. F4FPL advised on the 
portfolio in an ongoing service between 2014 and 2020, and issue 1 is about its initial and 
ongoing advice during this period. At the outset it shared enough to say that the portfolio 
would undergo rebalancing, and it also referred to a strategy to phase in more managed 
funds and diversification. Evidence from the portfolios valuation reports, as of January 2016 
and thereafter, shows notable changes. 
By January 2016: 
There was an IH section and two MP sections  the BD MPS and an F4FPL 
Balanced Strategy 2 MP (which Investec has confirmed it rebalanced for F4FPL). 
Around £94,000 in value was in the IH, around £121,000 in the F4FPL MP and 
around £24,000 in the BD MPS.
The portfolios asset allocation was as follows  around 40% in Overseas and UK 
equities; around 21% in bonds; around 8% in money market instruments (including 
cash); 13.13% in property; around 15% in multi asset funds; and the remainder in 
specialist funds.
The portfolios sections remained the same as of January 2017. At this point, it was invested 
as follows  around 43% in Overseas and UK equities; 23% in bonds; 5.58% in money 
market securities (including cash); around 11% in property; 13.18% in multi asset funds and 
the remainder in specialist funds.
As of January 2018, the portfolio had an additional MP section  the Quilter Cheviot IDX 
Growth MP (the Quilter MP)  making a total of three MPs. At this point, it was invested as 
follows  47% in Overseas and UK equities; 22% in bonds; 12% in multi asset funds; around 
10% in property; 5.07% in money market instruments (including cash); and the remainder in 
specialist funds.
The same portfolio sections remained in January 2019. The total equities holding had 
dropped to around 40%; the money market instruments, multi asset funds and bonds 
holdings were broadly at the same levels as they were in 2018; the property holding had 
dropped to around 7%; and around 11% was held in specialist funds. 
By January 2020 the Quilter MP was no longer in the portfolio, but the other sections 
remained. The total equities holding had risen to around 45%; the multi asset funds, bonds 
and specialist funds holdings were broadly at the same levels as they were in 2019; the 
property holding had dropped further to around 5%; and the money market instruments 
holding had dropped further to around 3%.
By January 2021 Investec was responsible for the portfolio. However, the IH, BD MPS and 
F4FPL MP sections remained and the asset allocation was roughly similar to what it was in 
January 2020.
Overall, on balance, and considering the evidence summarised above, I do not consider that 
F4FPLs advice on investing the portfolio was unsuitable. I acknowledge the points that Mr B 
has made about what he considers were better alternative funds and/or better alternative 
investment strategies. Whether (or not) F4FPL could have given better advice goes beyond 
its regulatory duty to give suitable investment advice. Its advice had to be suitable. It did not 
need to be the most suitable advice.
The portfolio had a mixture of the directly advised IH and the MPs which were managed and 
rebalanced by third party firms. F4FPL did not have the investment management role Mr B appears to have described, it gave initial and ongoing advice on the investment of the 
portfolio. 
In this respect, I do not consider there was anything inherently wrong or conflicting about its 
recommendation of MPs. Of course, they had to be suitable and available evidence shows 
that they followed the overall asset allocations for the portfolio. As I address next, those 
asset allocations were not unsuitable.
To be suitable, the asset allocations needed to match Mr Bs medium to high risk profile. 
Furthermore, and in the absence of specific/insistent instructions to the contrary, they also 
should have reflected a reasonable level of diversification. As I said above, neither was the 
case initially, but the balance of evidence is that F4FPL created scope for such an initial 
phase, that it shared this in its recommendations and that the allocations then changed 
within around the first year.
The allocations I have summarised above, for the period between January 2016 and 2020, 
did not experience drastic changes. As the investigator noted, there is no evidence that there 
were such changes to Mr Bs profile during the same period. That profile continued to apply, 
so it is unsurprising that the allocations based on it behaved broadly the same.
Total equities exposure was kept within the 40% to 50% range. This is not particularly 
uncommon or unsuitable for a medium risk portfolio. In Mr Bs case, it allowed for scope in 
the other half of the portfolio to strike a balance between a tilt towards higher risk 
investments (to match the higher risk element in his profile) and the need to avoid tilting the 
portfolio too far in that direction. 
The property and specialist fund holdings could be viewed as providing the higher risk tilt. A 
key purpose of the multi asset holdings appears to have been to further aid diversification, 
which I address below, but they could also be viewed broadly as a match for a medium risk 
profile. The bonds and money market holdings were of a lower risk nature and both were 
maintained around the levels of 25% to 28%. 
Overall, this meant the tilt towards higher risks in the other half of the portfolio was measured 
and suitably counter balanced, and that the portfolio (as a whole) matched Mr Bs medium to 
high risk profile.
Using two to three MPs in addition to the IH aided diversification of advice and investment 
ideas, and resulted in a reasonable level of diversification in the asset allocations within the 
portfolio. The multi asset holdings also added to such diversification given their exposure to 
a mix of asset classes. Overall and on balance, I do not consider that the portfolio was 
unsuitably diversified. 
Investment related fees could not be avoided, especially with regards to the fund and 
portfolio related investments. The performance reports gave information about total 
investment costs in the portfolio as follows  around £490 for the period between October 
2014 and January 2015; around £3,000 for the next period up to January 2016; the same for 
the next period up to January 2017; £3,350 for the next year up to January 2018; around 
£3,600 for the next year up to January 2019; around £4,000 for the next period up to 
January 2020; and the same for the next year up to January 2021. 
These costs do not appear to have been out of line with the investment costs information 
disclosed with F4FPLs recommendations. The portfolios value ranged between around 
£230,000 and around £350,000 during the above years, so these charges were roughly 
around 1% of the changing values. Overall, I am not persuaded that the associated 
investment costs made the recommendations unsuitable. For all the above reasons, I do not uphold the part of issue 1 that alleges unsuitable initial 
and ongoing advice. On balance, I do not find that F4FPLs initial and ongoing advice for the 
pension portfolio was unsuitable.
I also do not uphold the other parts of issue 1. As I said above, the service agreed between 
both parties in 2014 is more relevant than Mr Bs recollection of how F4FPLs service was 
presented to him when he first met its principal. There is documented evidence of the 
former, as summarised above, and F4FPLs direct influence on the portfolio began in 2014. 
With regards to delivering the service agreed, I do not find that F4FPL failed to this. It has 
disclosed a significant amount of documentation to us, covering the breadth of its 
relationship with Mr B and his pension. There are significant amounts of documents for the 
period between 2014 and 2020 which illustrate how the different aspects of the service 
agreed were delivered. There are too many to list individually and completely without 
overburdening this decision. It should be enough to highlight the following (all relevant to the 
2014 to 2020 period):
Agreed terms, with disclosed and agreed fees (and explanation of fees). In this 
respect, there might be a suggestion of churning within Mr Bs submissions  where 
he alleges that F4FPLs principal used his pension to generate fee income. No scope 
for this appears to have existed. F4FPLs fees were for its ongoing service. I have not 
seen evidence that it generated additional income from investment dealings in the 
portfolio.
Correspondence, over the years (and during the years), between the parties about 
the portfolio and its contents, including those in which Mr Bs consent to investments 
were sought (and given).
Formal Review Reports for the portfolio for each year, with corresponding portfolio 
valuation and performance reports. In some years updated versions were provided 
within the year.
Review related letters (which also referred to attached portfolio valuation and 
performance reports) to Mr B during the relevant period. Including, for example, 
those sent in December 2017, October 2019, 
Circumstances were such that face-to-face meetings were not viable at all relevant 
times in the life of the portfolio, but there is enough evidence of a number of meetings 
being arranged and held, and of telephone contact between the parties over the 
years. Overall, evidence of contact between them does not show Mr Bs ongoing 
access to F4FPL was ever a problem.
Based on the balance of all available evidence about the interactions between the parties, 
about the service delivered by F4FPL, and mindful of the evidence highlighted and 
summarised above, I am not persuaded to uphold Mr Bs claims about its service delivery. 
I do not uphold issue 1.
Issue 2
As I previously found, the setting for this issue is that F4FPL advised the investment of the 
pension portfolio between 2014 and 2020. For this reason, my findings about suitability of 
advice in issue 1 are directly relevant to determining issue 2, and I incorporate those findings for this purpose. Overall, F4FPLs advice for the investment of the portfolio during this period 
was not unsuitable, so Mr Bs claim about mismanagement of the portfolio in this respect is 
not upheld.
He was given no portfolio performance guarantees. His submissions about performance 
expectations are understandable, as an indication of the performance he hoped for, but 
there are no grounds to conclude that a guaranteed level(s) of performance was not 
reached. Furthermore, as I explained above, it is not reasonable to make findings about 
performance in isolation. 
Investment costs inevitably affect net returns, but I have found that the charges in the 
portfolio were mainly as disclosed, and that they did not make F4FPLs investment 
recommendations unsuitable.
Evidence does not establish that F4FPL breached investment instructions from Mr B or that 
it invested the portfolio without his consent. As I previously said, even if he considers that 
better investment ideas could have been used in the portfolio, that does not automatically 
mean F4FPLs advice was unsuitable.
I have also found, above, that the recommendation and use of MPs in the portfolio was not 
unsuitable. I have referred to evidence of contact between the parties (and the contents of 
that contact) and to portfolio related information (reports, valuations and performance 
information) that was provided over the relevant years. On balance, I have not found that 
relevant information about his pension portfolio was concealed from Mr B, or that the state of 
the portfolio was misrepresented to him.
Overall and for the above reasons, I do not uphold issue 2.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman