DRN-3458496
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Family Assurance Friendly Society Limited (trading as One Family) 
didnt inform her about its merger and because of this she wasnt able to cancel her policy.
What happened
In July 2012 Mrs D took out a Over 50s Life Cover Plan.  
One Family underwent a merger in April 2015. Mrs D said in 2017 she tried to get in touch 
with One Family to update her records but gave up due to lack of success. She also 
attempted to make contact in 2020 but her correspondence was returned stating addressee 
gone away. Mrs D has said One Family failed to notify her about the merger and because of 
this she was unable to get in touch. Had she been able to contact One Family sooner she 
wouldve been aware that her policy wasnt what she thought it was and therefore she 
wouldve paid fewer premiums. 
One Family looked into Mrs Ds concerns, in summary it said prior to the merger going 
ahead it had written out to all its members to vote for or against the merger. Following this, it 
contacted members in writing to inform them of the merger being successful and of its new 
name. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt uphold it. In short, he said he hadnt seen 
anything to suggest Mrs D wouldve cancelled her policy in 2017 had she been able to get in 
touch with One Family. He also said he thought One Family had informed her about the 
merger and so didnt think it had acted unfairly. 
Mrs D didnt agree, she maintained she hadnt received any correspondence from One 
Family since 2014 and so wasnt aware of the changes. She asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint so its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons, Ill explain why.
One Family has said it contacted its members and held a meeting to allow members to vote 
for or against the merger. Following this, it said it also wrote to members to inform them of 
the merger being successful and of its new name. One Family hasnt been able to provide 
copies of the correspondence it says it sent to Mrs D. Instead it has provided a sample of the 
correspondence it sent after the merger. I dont know why it doesnt have copies of the 
actual letters it sent to Mrs D. But looking at its internal records Im satisfied it did send 
mailings both before and after the merger. One Family confirmed that it didnt correspond 
with Mrs D via email and so all correspondence wouldve been sent in the post.  
I understand Mrs D has said she didnt receive these, but One Familys system notes show 
what address these would have been sent to and Mrs D has confirmed this was her 
residential address until 2021. So, on balance, I think its more likely than not Mrs D wouldve 
received some communication from One Family. 
Having said this, I think the crux of this complaint stems from Mrs D being unhappy that her 
policy wasnt what she thought it was. So, she said had she been able to contact One Family 
in 2017, she wouldve been able to discuss her policy and proceeded to cancel it. Ive 
thought carefully about this. Its difficult to say with any certainty as to whether Mrs D 
wouldve cancelled her policy in 2017 but based on the evidence I have Im not persuaded 
she would have. I say this because Mrs D said she attempted to contact One Family in 2020 
as this is when she was reviewing her personal circumstances. 
Mrs D said in 2020 she wanted to discuss the payment period of the policy coming to an 
end. It was this event that triggered her initial complaint which has been looked at 
separately, so I wont say more about that here. But focusing on the circumstances of this 
complaint I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs D did try to contact One Family in 2017 
with the intention of cancelling her policy. Instead, she said in 2017 she wanted to update 
her personal information, but Im not persuaded she wanted to discuss her policy. Mrs D has 
provided returned envelopes following her attempt to contact One Family, but these are 
dated 2020. It follows that I am not satisfied that Mrs D had any intention of cancelling her 
policy in 2017. 
Mrs D has said she would like a refund of premiums from 2017 but I dont think this would be 
fair. Mrs D continued to have the benefit of the cover and didnt raise concerns with One 
Family about this until 2020. Whilst Mrs D says she wouldve done this sooner had One 
Family informed her of its changes, I can see when Mrs D did try to contact One Family in 
2020, she was eventually able to. And I think had she have wanted to stop paying for 
something she thought she no longer needed in 2017, its unlikely she wouldve continued 
paying for a policy for several years just because she couldnt contact the business. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs D wanted but Ive considered all of the evidence and 
based on this, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman