DRN-3408729
The complaint
Ms E complains that Avantia Insurance Limited (Avantia) cancelled her building insurance 
policy without telling her. 
All references to Avantia include the agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Ms E says that she received no request for a missing payment from Avantia although it 
claimed a payment hadnt been received. She says her bank statement shows she made 
payments to keep the policy open but Avantia cancelled the policy and continued to collect 
premiums.     
Avantia says it wrote to Ms E in December 2018 as it hadnt been able to collect her 
premium. It said a further attempt would be made to collect in January 2019 along with a 
default charge for £27.50. The letter says if payment is not made by mid-January further 
charges will be raised, and Avantia may cancel Ms Es policy. 
A further letter was sent to Ms E in January 2019 to say payment collection had failed again. 
It asked that she arrange for payment to be made by mid-January. If no payment was 
received further charges would apply and Avantia may cancel her insurance.  
Avantia wrote to Ms E in February 2019 to say her policy had been cancelled and to confirm 
the amount owing. It says her son called the day after asking to pay the balance owed. 
Avantia explained he wasnt authorised to deal with Ms Es policy, and he needed to provide 
written confirmation of this from his mother. It says it received no further contact and so the 
policy remained cancelled. 
Ms E says she received a letter or email before the missed premium in December 2018 from 
Avantia saying her policy would be cancelled. She cant provide a copy of this 
correspondence. But says she arranged alternative cover in March 2019 because Avantia 
had said it was cancelling.   
In its final response to Ms Es complaint Avantia didnt think it had done anything wrong. So, 
Ms E referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened 
but didnt uphold her complaint. He says the evidence shows Ms E was informed of the 
intention to cancel. No authority was given for Avantia to deal with her son after the 
cancellation notice had been sent, so the policy remained cancelled.
Our investigator says Ms E didnt have a copy of a letter or email from Avantia telling her it 
would cancel the policy earlier in 2018. So, based on the evidence he thought it had treated 
Ms E fairly when cancelling cover. Ms E disagreed. She says it was Avantia that cancelled 
first, and she only stopped paying because of this. She asked for an ombudsman to review 
her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Ms Es complaint. I understand this will be 
disappointing for her, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
For clarity Ms E raised a complaint relating to a declined claim. This is being handled 
separately to this complaint and doesnt form part of my consideration here. 
I have read the policy documentation that was sent to Ms E by Avantia when the policy was 
agreed. The business explains that this was taken out online and the documents were sent 
by email. Ms Es email address is recorded in the policy documentation along with her 
mobile phone number. The correspondence address detailed in the covering letter is for her 
sons house. 
Avantia has supplied a copy of the letters sent to Ms E in December 2018 and January 
2019. I think these letters are clear in explaining that this constitutes a default notice and an 
outstanding balance needs to be paid. The notice is also clear that if this isnt paid by mid-
January, Avantia may cancel the policy.
I have seen a copy of the cancellation notice Avantia sent in February 2019. I think this letter 
is clear in explaining it hadnt been able to collect the required payment. And that the policy 
has now been cancelled from the date of the first unpaid premium. The letter says there is a 
balance of £103.40 owing. This is made up of a cancellation fee and an amount for the time 
on cover. 
From its records Avantia was contacted by Ms Es son the day after the cancellation notice 
was sent. The log note says he wanted to make payment but was told he would need to 
obtain authority from Ms E. It says he will email this information to Avantia. The next log 
contact note is from mid-March 2019. Ms Es son emailed Avantia, explaining who he was 
and that his mother doesnt use this email account. My understanding is this is the email 
address Ms E confirmed when the policy was set up. Ms Es son says as far as he is aware 
his mother is resident at a care centre. He provided the address and contact phone numbers 
for the care centre in his email and says his mother should be contacted directly to resolve 
the matter.
The log notes show Ms E called Avantia a year later in February 2020. The call was to query 
a claim that hadnt been paid out. The next note is from another year later in February 2021. 
It says Ms E was concerned that the policy had been cancelled and that payments are still 
being taken. Ms E was told the policy cancelled in February 2019 for non-payment.
In August 2021 Ms E complained to Avantia.  
Avantia sent its final response letter in September 2021. It reiterated the policy was 
cancelled for non-payment in 2019. It says it received no further contact since her son said 
hed provide written authority to deal with the matter. The business says its records dont 
show payments being taken post cancellation and Ms E hasnt shown payments were taken 
either. 
Ms E has sent our service a copy of a bank statement. This shows payments taken by 
Avantia in 2018 but no payment is showing from December. A payment for £27.50 was 
taken in January 2019 but she hasnt provided records after this date. My understanding is 
the payment in January is the default charge confirmed in the default notice. Its not clear why the December 2018 payment wasnt collected along with this amount. But the statement 
doesnt show that Avantia continued to collect premiums after the policy was cancelled.
I have read the policy terms to understand what is expected to happen in these 
circumstances. The information specific to cancellations is provided on Avantias website. 
This is entitled Important Information About Our Insurance Services. Ms E was directed to 
this information when the policy was taken out. It says:
Well always try to resolve any issues with you first but if we cant, we reserve the right to 
cancel or void your policy This could happen in instances such as failing to pay your 
premium.
Where we cancel your policy, well send no less than 7 days written notice to your last 
address (unless there is evidence of fraud or deliberate misrepresentation, when 
cancellation will be immediate). Well then cancel your policy on a proportional basis based 
on how long youve had cover.  
From what Ive seen Avantia tried to contact Ms E when it couldnt collect payment. It used 
the contact details provided when the policy was set up. So, I dont think it acted unfairly in 
doing so. Ms Es son asked for correspondence to go to the care home Ms E was staying at 
when he emailed the business in March 2019. Ive not seen evidence that this was done. But 
by this stage the policy had been cancelled for around six weeks. I also understand from Ms 
E that she had agreed alternative insurance prior to her son sending this email to Avantia. 
In summary, Ms E was told In December 2018 that she needed to pay the outstanding 
balance by the following month. She was then informed in February 2019 that the policy had 
been cancelled. Avantia says it was too late by this point to reinstate the policy. I 
acknowledge Ms E says she didnt receive these instructions. But Im satisfied Avantia tried 
to make contact using the contact information it had on record. And that it gave reasonable 
notice of the cancellation for Ms E to respond.
I understand Ms E has found this situation upsetting and Im sorry this has been the case. 
But I dont think Avantia treated her unfairly when cancelling her policy for non-payment of 
her premiums. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman