DRN-3288382
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as B, complains that by charging an excessive arrangement 
fee, National Westminster Bank Plc caused it to incur substantial losses.   
What happened
In 2007, B, a property developer, took out a loan from NatWest to part fund the purchase of 
a property for £305,000. B intended to redevelop the existing property into a much larger one 
for sale. The bank also provided a loan for part of the development costs. 
By late 2008, the banks records indicate that B had run out of cash and the partners didnt 
have any available funds to contribute to the project. By early 2009, Bs revised strategy was 
to carry out minor refurbishments to the property and then let it. 
In late 2009, B and its connected businesses were transferred to the banks Global 
Restructuring Group (GRG). Over the two years that followed, the partners were attempting 
to refinance elsewhere and the bank renewed their facilities on a short term basis. 
In September 2012, the bank transferred B to its Recoveries department and appointed 
receivers. The property was sold at auction for £302,500 in April 2013. 
In 2019, the partnership complained to the banks voluntary GRG review process about 
unreasonable fees and interest charged. One part of this complaint was upheld on appeal 
and compensation of £5,000 plus interest was awarded in relation to an arrangement fee. 
The partners accepted this award in settlement of that complaint and submitted a 
consequential loss claim. 
In the consequential loss claim, B said that, without the banks overcharging of the fee, 
NatWest might have renewed the borrowing, refinancing might have been obtained and the 
property might have sold at a better price. B said it had lost at least £50,000 in costs, but 
potentially up to £300,000 in potential lost profit on the development. 
The bank declined to assess Bs claim, because it said it had no reasonable prospect of 
success. B appealed, but the appeal was also unsuccessful. B then referred its 
consequential loss claim to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Bs consequential loss claim and wrote to the 
partnership with his findings. He didnt uphold the complaint because he said B hadnt shown 
that the excessive fee had caused the losses. 
B disagreed and asked an ombudsman to make a final decision. The partnership made the 
following points:
Our investigator had drawn his conclusions based on the circumstances of 2021 not 
ten years previously, which was another world. It wasnt possible to define what 
would have been considered at that time.
Our investigators conclusions were therefore based on supposition and it wasnt 
possible to find conclusively in favour of the bank.
The likelihood was that there would have been consequences of the banks 
overcharging.
Where there was no certainty, the balance of judgement should be in favour of the 
partnership.
The partners had suffered stress and emotional suffering due to the increased 
borrowing caused by the excess fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint the partners, but Ive reached the same conclusion 
as our investigator, for essentially the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Because the matter of the fees has already been resolved between the parties, the starting 
point of my decision is that B should have paid a £5,000 lower arrangement fee in June 
2010. Bs complaint is now about consequential losses.
I know that the partners feel that the bank has failed to interpret consequential loss correctly 
and has defined it too narrowly. But the bank is running a voluntary redress scheme, for 
which it has set the parameters, after discussion with the regulator. I dont have the power to 
consider how it chooses to run such a scheme. I can, however, decide whether I consider a 
consequential loss has occurred.  
To do that, I need to look at whether the banks charging £5,000 too much actually caused 
the consequential losses. And if it did, Id also need to ask whether it would be fair to hold 
the bank responsible for those losses. So Id need to decide whether the bank could 
reasonably foresee that its error would result in losses like these. 
In making these assessments, I need to compare what actually happened with whats likely 
to have happened if the bank hadnt charged too much. I accept that there is no certainty 
about this and I cant know for sure what would have happened over a decade ago. But that 
is not unusual in our services work. I need to decide, based on all available evidence, whats 
more likely than not to have happened. I dont accept Bs suggestion that, in the absence of 
certainty, my judgement should be in favour of the partnership. 
B has argued that the overcharged fee caused a chain of events, that resulted in substantial 
losses. These start with the higher indebtedness resulting from the fee causing lending to 
the partnership to look riskier, both to the bank and third parties. The partners were trying to 
refinance and believe that other banks possibly would have looked at the project had the 
level of finance they were being asked to consider been correctly stated. 
This argument makes sense in principle. But when the context as a whole is considered, 
particularly the overall debt levels of the partnership, Im afraid it is not persuasive. The 
partnership owed the bank some £262,000 at the time the loan expired. So the additional £5,000 was only around 2% of the total. I therefore think its more likely than not that a 
£5,000 lower balance would not have made a material difference to the risk perception of 
either NatWest or third parties. In particular, the loan-to-value (LTV) would still have been 
above the appetite of most lenders, particularly given the relatively risk averse lending 
climate at that time. 
I know that B believes that its LTV should have been lower, as the partners think that the 
bank was relying on an out-of-date valuation. But the question of the validity of the valuation 
isnt part of an upheld direct loss complaint. So I cant consider any consequential losses 
from it here. 
The bank told B that serviceability and the purpose of the loan would also have been 
considerations in any lending decision. B made some additional points regarding this in its 
referral to us. I dont propose to address these here as I dont think they make any difference 
to the claim. I say this because, in the counterfactual, the loan would still be for the same 
purpose, since the purpose of the loan changed before the overcharging. And whilst the 
availability of an additional £5,000 might have helped serviceability a little, I dont consider it 
would have made a significant difference.  
I know that B believes the bank engineered the change in purpose of the loan from develop-
and-sell to refurbish-and-let. But this is a separate allegation from the excess fee and its 
consequences, so I wont consider it here. 
The bank rejected Bs claim because it said B had failed to evidence a loss. I agree that B 
has no evidence for the hypothetical profits it could have made on the development that 
never went ahead. But, although I havent seen it, Im sure it could provide evidence for the 
costs incurred through the appointment of the receiver and sale at auction. However, I 
havent seen any evidence to persuade me that B would have avoided these fees, but for the 
£5,000 excess fee. So I dont think it would be fair for me to make an award. 
The partners have argued that they have also suffered emotionally because of the banks 
actions. But I could only make an award for this if I was satisfied that this suffering was a 
result of the additional £5,000 fee. I dont doubt that this was a very difficult and stressful 
time for them, but I dont think I can reasonably attribute that to the extra £5,000, given the 
overall debt levels and financial position at the time. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman