DRN-3046022
The complaint
Mr P complains that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc, trading as Ansvar (which for ease Ill 
refer to as Ecclesiastical) has declined his home insurance policy claim. 
All reference to Ecclesiastical includes its agents.
What happened
Parties have provided a detailed history of the property. But here I will set out the key events 
which are relevant to my decision. I want to reassure both parties that I have read and 
carefully considered everything thats been provided.
In October 2020 following heavy rainfall Mr P realised a drainage gulley in his garden was 
overflowing. He tried to clear it himself and employed some contractors, however both 
attempts didnt work. 
So, Mr P excavated parts of his garden to understand the potential cause. He also consulted 
the appropriate local authorities and an independent contractor (Mr E), who both visited the 
property.  
It was realised that the pipework had not been correctly routed. There wasnt a junction of 
the two drainage runs to ensure drainage to the public sewer. Instead one of the pipes ran 
into the adjoining farm land as a rudimentary soakaway. The local authority recommended 
the pipework in question ought to be connected to the public mains sewer.
Mr E completed the remedial works around November 2020. And Mr P claimed under his 
home insurance policy for the full cost of the works Mr E completed, less any policy 
excesses.
Ecclesiastical considered the claim and declined it. It pointed to the policys general 
exclusions which it said means this was an Uninsurable risk. It said the policy excluded 
damage caused by faulty workmanship, defective design or the use of defective materials.   
It said had it visited before Mr P had investigated and fixed the issue, it would have likely 
treated this as a blocked drain. So, offered £292.80, which would have been the cost of it 
trying to unblock the drain. Mr P didnt accept this and complained to us. He said hed been 
misinformed about the drainage system at the property and asked us to consider whether 
this ought to be covered as Accidental damage.
Our investigator didnt think it fit the definition of Accidental damage or was covered under 
the policy for any other insured event. And so, said Ecclesiastical hadnt been unfair in 
declining the claim. Mr P didnt agree. So, he asked for an ombudsman to review the 
investigators findings. The complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
When declining this claim Ecclesiastical has relied on a general exclusion in the policy, 
meaning an exclusion that applies to any claim under the policy. Under this section the 
policy defines uninsurable risks as f) damage caused by: v) faulty workmanship, defective 
design or the use of defective materials. 
Mr P had the remedial works completed before Ecclesiastical were able to look at the pipes. 
However, there does not appear to be any dispute regarding the cause of this claim. The 
local authority explained the pipe hadnt been connected to a public sewer, instead it 
seemed to flow into an adjoining farm. Once the pipe was connected as per the local 
authoritys guidance the issue appears to have been resolved. Ecclesiastical also employed 
a specialist to consider the issue. Based on the evidence it saw, it agreed this was most 
likely the issue. This also aligns with the testimony I have seen. So, I think I can safely 
conclude the pipe in question wasnt connected to a public sewer, which ultimately caused a 
drainage issue. I think this meets the definition of faulty workmanship, defective design or 
the use of defective materials. I say this because the pipe was not connected in a way that 
allowed it to effectively drain contents away, ultimately meaning the drain overflowed.
Mr P has referred to other insured events that are covered by the policy including Accidental 
damage. But, even if I was satisfied it met this term, the general exclusion Ecclesiastical 
have relied on would still stand. And so, I think Ecclesiastical acted fairly in declining a claim.
In Mr Ps own words In summary, the loss which I suffered arose out of accidental 
misinformation about the drainage system, promulgated repeatedly by the responsible public 
bodies. The effect of that accident was to encourage the continued use of the drain, by me 
and by previous occupants, in ignorance of, and without regard to, the actual nature and 
condition of whatever infrastructure was, in fact, fed by the drain. I appreciate this is an 
unfortunate situation for Mr P and he had made his claim in good faith, but I need to decide 
whether Ecclesiastical has acted fairly and reasonably in considering his claim. I think it 
considered the terms of the policy, gathered information from all parties and visited the 
property to consider what may have happened. So, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in 
declining Mr Ps claim. 
If Mr P wishes to accept Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plcs offer of £292.80 he should 
contact it directly to arrange payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
12 October 2021. 
Kinjal Vadgama
Ombudsman