DRN-3081537
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the fees and charges applied to his credit accounts by Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank.
What happened
Mr P took out a credit account with Tesco in May 2017. Mr P also took out a second credit 
account with Tesco in June 2018. Mr P incurred a number of late payment and over limit 
fees on these accounts. Mr P wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Tesco looked at Mr Ps complaint, but they felt that theyd applied the fees and charges to Mr 
Ps accounts correctly and in line with the terms of those accounts. So, they didnt uphold Mr 
Ps complaint.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Tesco had applied 
the fees and charges to Mr Ps accounts correctly, so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its the responsibility of a credit account holder to ensure that they manage and maintain a 
credit account within the terms of the account. 
If a credit account isnt managed and maintained within the terms of the account, then the 
credit account provider can implement fees and charges, so long as the nature of these fees 
has been declared to the credit account holder via the terms and conditions of the account or 
by other account documents.
Having reviewed the terms and conditions of these accounts, its clear that the nature of late 
payment fees and over credit limit fees is explained in those terms.
Furthermore, having reviewed the statements of Mr Ps accounts, Im also satisfied that 
Tesco have applied the late payment and over limit fees on the accounts in line with the 
terms and conditions of the accounts.
Mr P has asked specifically whether its fair that the accrual of interest on an account should 
be allowed to take the balance of an account over the credit limit such that an over limit fee 
becomes due. 
I can appreciate Mr Ps frustration here, as its evident that this is what took place on his 
accounts in some instances. However, as mentioned previously, its the responsibility of the 
account holder to manage and maintain a credit account within the terms of that account, 
and so ultimately, I feel that it was Mr Ps responsibility to have ensured that the accrual of 
interest on the accounts didnt cause the balance of the accounts to exceed the credit limit.
It can be the case, where a customer is experiencing financial difficulty, that this service 
would expect a credit account provider to show a degree of forbearance to that customer 
which can sometimes include contractual fees not being charged. But I havent seen any 
indication that Mr P contacted Tesco at any time and informed them that he was 
experiencing financial difficulty, and so I cant see any reason why Tesco wouldnt have 
applied the charges and fees on Mr Ps accounts in the manner that they did.
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Tesco have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr P in how theyve applied charges to his accounts, and it follows 
from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Tesco to take any further 
action. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr P wanted here, but I trust that hell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman