DRN-2557556
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the amount Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
accepted from his insurance company which left him with a shortfall on his hire purchase 
agreement.
What happened
Mr R entered into a hire purchase agreement with MBFS in March 2019. Unfortunately, 
around six months later, the car he got under the agreement was written off after an 
accident. Mr Rs insurers settled his claim and paid the settlement to MBFS. But the amount 
his insurer paid left a shortfall of £355.65 on his agreement.
Mr R wasnt happy with this and complained to MBFS. He said it shouldnt have accepted 
the write off funds from his insurer. MBFS didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. Briefly, it said Mr R 
had added his insurer as an authorised contact on his MBFS account and the shortfall on his 
account remained payable.
 
Mr R wasnt happy with this response and he brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into this case. Our investigator didnt think MBFS had done anything 
wrong. In summary, he said: Its common for an insurer to pay out the market value of a car 
when its been written off; as the car had been classed as a total loss, MBFS was entitled to 
receive the money paid under the insurance policy; and, in these situations, the total sum 
due under the agreement was payable by Mr R - including any shortfall.
 
Mr R didnt accept this. Amongst other things, he said: this case is part of a bigger complaint 
against his insurer; where in his agreement does it allow MBFS to act like this; MBFS has 
breached the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR); and, he never cancelled his 
direct debit so why didnt MBFS use this to take the shortfall?
 
As this matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that 
Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is 
the heart of the matter here: has MBFS treated Mr R fairly by accepting the funds from his 
insurer and asking him to pay the remaining amount due under his agreement? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
I would also point out Im aware Mr R has made a separate complaint about the actions of 
his insurer. Hes said this complaint against MBFS is linked to that complaint. But while both 
complaints may stem from the same incident  Mr Rs car being involved in an accident  
they are separate issues. Im satisfied the actions of his insurer dont affect whether or not 
MBFS has treated him fairly and reasonably. My decision is only looking at the actions of 
MBFS, not Mr Rs insurer.
 
Ill now turn to Mr Rs agreement with MBFS. Ive looked at this, including the section of the 
terms and conditions headed Total Loss. This part of the agreement sets out that in the 
event of the car being considered a total loss by his insurer, as is the case here, Mr R 
appoints MBFS as his agent for the purposes of receiving any money paid out under his 
insurance policy.
 
This section also makes it clear that in the event of a total loss, the balance of the agreement 
is payable, less any rebate due for early repayment. Im satisfied this information is clearly 
set out. Im also satisfied MBFS acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Rs 
agreement, which he signed in March 2019.
 
I would also point out here that MBFS has no say or influence over how Mr Rs insurer 
assessed the value of his car at the point immediately before the accident. Thats between 
him and the insurer. MBFSs role here was limited to receiving the money paid out under 
Mr Rs policy and applying this to his agreement. When it did so, there was a shortfall of 
£355.65 still owing.
 
Mr R has questioned why MBFS didnt claim this shortfall using the direct debit mandate 
hed set up on his account. But this mandate was set up to make his regular monthly 
repayments of £184.46. It wasnt set up or intended to be used by MBFS to claim any 
shortfall. So I can fully understand why it didnt use it for this, especially when Mr R was 
disputing his liability for this amount.
 
Mr R has also stated theres been a clear breach of GDPR by MBFS when communicating 
with his insurer. I dont agree. Ive listened to a call Mr R made to MBFS on 16 September 
2019. In this call he gives MBFS his permission to add his insurer as an authorised contact 
on his account. Mr R also added his wife as an authorised contact at the same time. On this 
call, Mr R supplied a password for his insurer which needed to be used any time it called 
MBFS.
 
From the above, Im satisfied MR R gave MBFS his permission to discuss his account with 
his insurer. So, I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it did this.
 
Finally, I can see Mr R has questioned how finance companies can accept any amount that 
an insurance company offers without discussing it with the customer. He says he cant see 
how this is correct or acceptable or in the best interests of the industry for future resolutions. 
I would state here this point falls outside of the scope of my decision. My role here is to 
consider the individual circumstances of Mr Rs dispute with MBFS.
 
Having done so, for the reasons given above, Im satisfied MBFS has acted fairly and 
reasonably when accepting the proceeds of Mr Rs motor insurance policy. Im also satisfied 
its fair and reasonable for MBFS to ask MR R to pay the shortfall outstanding on his 
account. If Mr R isnt able to pay this in one go, MBFS should treat him positively and 
sympathetically in agreeing an arrangement to pay the outstanding amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman