DRN-4244268
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim she made under her 
buildings insurance policy following a landslip.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mrs P got in touch with Fairmead following a landslip. A retaining wall supports the 
house and the garden. A section of it near the house failed and some of the 
previously retained material slipped downwards onto the public footpath below. Mrs P 
took advice from a structural engineer and shared it with Fairmead.
Fairmead declined the claim. It said heavy rainfall had caused the section of wall to 
collapse. But storm damage involving landslip wasnt covered by the policy.
Mrs P didnt think this was fair. She questioned whether the weather conditions 
amounted to a storm. And she noted her policy had additional landslip cover, which 
didnt reference storm.
Our investigator thought Fairmead had declined the claim fairly. He pointed out that if 
there werent storm conditions, a claim under the storm section of the policy couldnt 
succeed. And whilst there is separate cover for landslip, this would only cover the 
retaining wall if the foundation of the home was also damaged by the landslip. And 
the evidence didnt show that was the case.
Mrs P disagreed with this outcome. She reiterated that she didnt think there were 
storm conditions at the relevant time. And she said shed maintained the wall. 
Referring to the additional landslip cover, she said the engineer thought there likely 
was damage to the foundations of the home.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded the evidence did show the foundations had been 
damaged, so he didnt change his mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed there was a landslip and Fairmead seems to accept that caused the 
damage to the retaining wall. I havent seen any suggestion the wall was damaged 
by anything else. The crux of this dispute is about whether the damage to the wall is 
covered by the policy.
The policy covers damage caused in a number of specific ways. There are three 
which are relevant here.
Firstly, the policy covers damage to the building by storm as standard. But not when 
that damage is caused by landslip. The word storm isnt defined in the policy. But I 
dont think I need to consider in detail whether there was a storm  or whether it 
caused the landslip. Ill explain why.
As the investigator has pointed out, if there wasnt a storm, then there cant be a 
successful claim for storm damage, regardless of the landslip exclusion. And if there 
was a storm, the landslip exclusion would apply as thats what caused the damage. 
So either way a claim under the storm section of the policy can be fairly declined.
Secondly, the policy covers accidental damage to the buildings. This section also 
excludes damage caused by landslip. So, similarly to the storm section, regardless of 
whether there was accidental damage to the buildings or not, a claim under this 
section of the policy can be fairly declined.
Thirdly, the standard policy wording doesnt cover landslip. However, the policy 
schedule contains an endorsement which effectively adds it to the policy. It says the 
policy covers damage caused by landslip. But damage to walls isnt covered unless 
the foundations beneath the home are also damaged by the landslip. Storm isnt 
mentioned in the endorsement, so its not relevant to this part of the policy.
So the key question is whether the house foundations have been damaged by the 
landslip.
The engineer has said the landslip is within 2.5m of the house and that means its 
close enough to have a direct effect on its foundations. Also, it must be assumed at 
this stage that the slip has affected the property support. More recently, they said 
they couldnt investigate the foundation as the landslip is too close, so it would need 
to be made safe first.
Taking all of this into account, its clear the foundations could have been damaged by 
the landslip. And if that was the case, Fairmead would need to consider the claim 
further. But the current evidence doesnt persuade me the foundations have likely 
been damaged by the landslip  its merely a possibility or assumption. So Im 
satisfied Fairmead can fairly decline the claim under the separate landslip cover, 
based on the evidence as it stands today.
Mrs P is entitled to take further advice and/or proceed with work which may show 
whether the foundation has been damaged by the landslip. If she gathers any 
information that she thinks shows the claim ought to be covered, shes entitled to 
share that with Fairmead. Id expect it to consider any such information carefully and 
bear in mind the policy wording when doing so. If shes not satisfied with Fairmeads 
response, she may be able to refer a new complaint to this Service.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman