DRN-1596279
 
The complaint
Mrs C says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened 
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999. The policy was added to 
Mrs Cs credit card account when she applied for the card by post. 
Mrs C mainly told us that she wasnt made aware at the time about the PPI policy, neither 
were the costs or benefits made clear.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Its completely understandable that Mrs C mightve forgotten details about something that 
happened so long ago. But on the credit card application form she filled in there was a 
section headed:
SAFEGUARD YOUR PAYMENTS AGAINST LIFES UNPREDICTABLE EVENTS WITH 
OUR PAYMENT PROTECTION COVER
There were Yes and No options next to this and on the form Mrs C completed and signed 
the Yes option has been marked  indicating that she wanted the policy.
There was a No option Mrs C couldve ticked instead if she hadnt wanted PPI. This is left 
blank on Mrs Cs application. 
So I think MBNA made Mrs C aware at the time that the PPI was available as an option with 
her credit card and that she chose to take it.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But Ive looked carefully at whether MBNA gave Mrs C enough information to make a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for her  and if it didn't do this, Ive thought about 
whether that makes any overall difference to what happened.
Mrs C was eligible for the cover according to the policy terms and conditions.Mrs C told us that she wouldve been entitled to less than 3 months sick pay if she was off 
work sick. The policy couldve paid out for longer than this. If Mrs C was too sick or disabled 
to work the policy couldve paid out for as long as she was off sick until her credit card 
balance was paid in full. 
Also the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mrs C lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. So I think that the PPI couldve benefitted Mrs C. 
Its possible some of the information MBNA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if 
Mrs C wouldve been affected by any of those things. So I dont think having more 
information about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put her off taking it out. 
On the application Mrs C completed, there was a brief description of the policy benefits and 
some information about what it would cost. I dont think that MBNA properly explained the 
policy cost, or exactly what it might pay out if Mrs C made a claim. But Mrs C chose to take 
out the policy when she didn't have to - so she appears to have wanted this type of cover. 
And Ive seen nothing to make me think that the policy wasnt affordable for her.  
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs C, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed still 
have taken out the policy.
This means that, even though MBNA didnt do everything it shouldve done, I dont find that 
Mrs C lost out because of anything MBNA did wrong. So there isnt anything MBNA needs to 
do now to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman