DRN-3626231
The complaint
Mr M complains about Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (CFS) and their decision to decline his initial loan application.  
What happened
In March 2022, Mr M applied for a £15,000 loan with CFS to finance a new kitchen. But this 
initial application was declined and instead, CFS offered Mr M a smaller loan of £8,680. Mr 
M didnt accept this offer, as it didnt cover the cost of the kitchen he wanted. And Mr M was 
unhappy about CFS decision to decline his initial application so he raised a complaint.
Mr M thought the loan was affordable based on his household income and his credit rating. 
So, he could see no reason as to why the £15,000 couldnt be provided and thought CFS 
had discriminated against him when declining the application. Mr M explained hed paid a 
£1,000 deposit for the kitchen on the basis hed be approved for the loan. So, to resolve the 
complaint, Mr M wanted CFS to overturn the initial application decline and approve the full 
£15,000 loan. Or to provide a detail explanation as to why the loan wasnt approved.
CFS responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought theyd assessed, and 
declined, Mr Ms application fairly, in line with their usual underwriting and affordability 
criteria. And they didnt think they had any obligation to reveal these criteria, due to its 
commercially sensitive nature. So, they didnt think they had done anything wrong and 
because of this, didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr M remained unhappy with 
this response, so he referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator investigated the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised Mr Ms 
unhappiness, but they explained they had seen evidence which satisfied them Mr Ms 
application was declined fairly. And they didnt think theyd seen anything to suggest Mr M 
had been discriminated against. So, why they appreciated Mr Ms unhappiness that he 
hadnt been told exactly why he wasnt eligible for the full loan, they didnt think CFS needed 
to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He didnt accept he hadnt been discriminated against, as he hadnt seen 
CFS underwriting criteria himself. And he maintained his belief that the loan shouldve been 
affordable, based on his income which he thought was evidence by other products from CFS 
being offered to him in marketing correspondence. Mr M also referred to the importance of a 
box being ticked during the application process, which our investigator responded to 
explaining hed seen no evidence that a ticked box had any impact on the lending decision. 
Mr M continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I dont dispute Mr M 
assumed the £15,000 loan he applied for would be accepted, for varying reasons including 
his credit rating, income, and the fact he held other credit provided by CFS. So, when this 
application was declined, I can understand the shock Mr M wouldve felt. And I can 
appreciate the inconvenience this wouldve caused, as it potentially impacted his kitchen of 
choice and the deposit he had already paid.
But for me to say CFS should re-assess this application or provide Mr M with the full loan he 
requested; Id need to be satisfied that CFS assessed the application unfairly. And as well as 
this, Id need to be satisfied that had they assessed the application fairly, that they wouldve 
deemed the full loan to be affordable. And in this situation, I cant say thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
what Ive been able to consider, and how.
Mr M has raised concerns with CFS lending criteria, and how they calculate affordability. 
These criteria, and the calculations CFS use, are apart of CFS internal business processes. 
And this is something that would fall under the remit of the industry regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority, to investigate rather than ourselves. So, this isnt something Im able to 
comment on or something Im able to direct CFS to change.
But I can consider whether I think CFS assessed Mr Ms application fairly, within these 
criteria. And from the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied they have.
While Im unable to disclose the criteria that is used, or how Mr Ms affordability was 
calculated, Ive seen evidence that satisfies me Mr Ms application was considered in line 
with CFS usual process. And that after doing so, the initial application was declined and 
instead, a lesser counter sum was proposed. So, I dont think I can say CFS acted unfairly, 
or unreasonably.
I appreciate Mr M doesnt agree with this. And I recognise Mr M has had previous loans 
provided by CFS, and since then his income and affordability has increased. But a lender 
such as CFS isnt obligated to provide a customer with further lending if theyve agreed to 
lend previously. And even though Mr Ms financial position may have improved, CFS 
appetite for risk and so, the criteria the use to assess this, can also change. So, I cant say 
this is evidence that CFS have acted unfairly or discriminated against him.
And this is the same for the differing levels of finance CFS are willing to provide via different 
lending platforms. It is not uncommon, nor unfair, for CFS to offer differing levels of finance 
based on the varying terms of different financial products.
And I do understand why Mr M would want to understand explicitly why his application was 
declined. But CFS have no obligation to provide this information nor would I expect them to 
do so, as their lending criteria is commercially sensitive information. So again, I dont think 
their failure to provide this to Mr M shows that theyve acted either unfairly, or unreasonably.
Finally, I know Mr M believes that a tick box may have been the cause of the application 
decline. But Ive seen no evidence to show me this is the case. And so, this hasnt impacted 
the decision Ive reached.
So, because of the above, Im unable to say CFS have acted unfairly when declining Mr Ms 
application and because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more. I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for and I appreciate this leaves Mr M in a situation 
where he is unable to purchase his kitchen of choice using the finance offered by the retailer. 
But this doesnt mean Mr M is unable to attempt obtaining finance from another lender, 
which may or may not decide to lend Mr M the amount he requires.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman