DRN-3881383
The complaint
Mr M complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) handled a claim he made in 
relation to a transaction on his credit card. 
What happened
Mr M purchased a new car, through a company Ill refer to as D in July 2021. The total cost 
of the car was £47,500. This price included a set of four carbon fibre wheels at a cost of 
£12,000 including VAT. Mr M paid a deposit payment of £1,000 towards the purchase using 
his HSBC credit card.
In September 2021, Mr M complained to HSBC as he noticed the first aid kit and toolbox 
were missing and the car wasnt taxed. He also paid for the brake discs to be replaced for 
around £800. Mr M raised a chargeback claim to recover the cost of the replacement brakes 
 this was successful.
In late November 2021, Mr M says he noticed one of the carbon fibre wheels was missing. 
He complained to HSBC but it said it couldnt raise a further chargeback claim, as Mr M had 
already had a refund under the chargeback scheme for his previous claim. 
Mr M was unhappy with how his claim was handled and so he complained to HSBC. HSBC 
issued its response to Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it had provided poor service.
HSBC also said it couldnt consider Mr Ms claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (s75) as the purchase price exceeded the limits under s75. Mr M disagreed and 
said the cost of the wheels was £12,000 and so, this was within the financial limits of s75.
Unhappy with this, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his complaint 
and said he wanted HSBC to pay around £7,300 for a new carbon fibre wheel. He also said 
he had made a number of phone calls and emails to resolve the issue and that he struggled 
with sleeping due to him worrying about the issue.
Following the complaint being referred to our service, HSBC offered £150 compensation to 
Mr M due to the delays in reviewing Mr Ms s75 claim.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. Whilst he thought HSBC had handled Mr Ms s75 
claim fairly, he thought that HSBC should increase its offer to pay Mr M £150 to £250 due to 
the delays it caused and the lack of communication with Mr M. 
HSBC responded and agreed to increase its offer of compensation to £250 as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Mr M disagreed and said:
D was lying as the wheel was never supplied with the car. 
He didnt want to accept the £250 HSBC had offered. 
The cost of the wheel had increased to around £11,500 since he had referred his 
complaint. 
He had a number of issues with the car and he was only able to resolve these after 
consistently chasing D. 
The car wasnt used between July and November 2021 whilst it was stored in Mr Ms 
garage. He only noticed the wheel was missing from its case when it was agreed the 
cars brakes would be replaced. 
D hasnt proved that the wheel was in the car at the time of supply to Mr M.
As Mr M remains in disagreement, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr M has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. The rules of this service allow me to do this.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute in two ways  s75 and chargeback. 
Mr M raised a s75 claim. So Ive considered whether HSBC fairly handled Mr Ms s75 claim. 
Under s75, HSBC is jointly liable for any breaches of contract or misrepresentations made 
by the supplier of goods or services  which is D in this case. 
In order for there to be a valid claim under s75, there needed to be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
(DCS) agreement in place. Mr M made the purchase on his credit card which was supplied 
by HSBC. I can see the invoice from D is in Mr Ms name. HSBC have shown the credit card 
transaction was in Mr Ms name to D. So, Im satisfied a valid DCS agreement exists here.
Ive then considered the financial limits that apply to a valid s75 claim. Mr M needed to have 
purchased a single item with a cash price of over £100, but no more than £30,000. HSBC 
declined Mr Ms s75 claim as it said the overall cash price of the car was more than £30,000. 
I can see from the invoice that the total cost of the everything Mr M acquired was £47,500. 
This falls outside the financial limits. However, the invoice separates the cost for the carbon 
fibre wheels as £12,000 (including VAT). Ive also noted on the invoice that there is a section 
for OPTIONS, but the wheels are not listed here. Instead, they are listed separately under 
ACCESSORIES. This leads me to believe the car could be purchased without the wheels 
and they are a separate item. 
Given the car was already provided with standard wheels and the carbon fibre wheels were 
purchased separately by Mr M, Im satisfied that the carbon fibre wheels were a single item 
and the car without the carbon fibre wheels, but with the optional extras selected, was a 
single item. This means that Mr Ms claim for the carbon fibre wheels meets the financial 
limits for a valid claim under s75. However, this also means I cant consider a claim about 
any issues with the car, as the single item price of the car is more than £30,000 once VAT 
has been applied.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr M only has a like claim against HSBC, as he does against D, for the 
purchase of the carbon fibre wheels. And that D were acting as an agent of HSBC.
Mr M paid for four carbon fibre wheels. Mr M complains that he only received three of these 
wheels and so, there has been a breach of contract as he didnt receive all the goods 
agreed. 
The car was supplied to Mr M in July 2021. Mr M says he didnt realise one of the carbon 
fibre wheels was missing until November 2021, because when the car was delivered to him, 
it had standard alloy wheels. Mr M says four boxes were supplied with the car which he 
assumed each had a wheel in. He said he purchased the carbon fibre wheels separately so he could fit them to the car when he went to shows. This meant Mr M says he didnt look 
inside the boxes with the carbon wheels for several months.
D have said each of the four carbon fibre wheels were individually placed into cases that 
were zipped up. D said all four of the wheels were supplied with the car. D said they didnt 
take pictures of the carbon fibre wheels in the car at the time it was supplied. D also said 
they carried out a standard pre-delivery inspection of the car before it was supplied to Mr M.
Ive thought about this carefully and having done so, Im not persuaded that there has been 
a breach of contract, Ill explain why.
Ive thought about the fact D couldnt give evidence to show the wheels were in the cases. 
But, I dont think it would be unusual for D to not take photos of the inside of the individual 
cases before it handed the car to Mr M. And just because D didnt take pictures of the 
wheels in the car, this doesnt mean that the car wasnt supplied with them.
Mr M didnt complain about one of the carbon fibre wheels missing until November 2021. 
This is four months after he took delivery of the car. Mr M has confirmed four boxes were 
supplied with the car and so, he assumed each box had one carbon fibre wheel in it. He said 
he didnt check the boxes and he took the boxes out of the car before the brakes were 
repaired. He said as he wasnt using the carbon fibre wheels, he didnt need to take them out 
of the boxes. Mr M later told us he himself replaced the brakes at his workplace. He said the 
detailing of the car started on that day and that is when he found the wheel to be missing. 
The carbon fibre wheels were an expensive accessory that Mr M made a decision to 
purchase. They werent standard or negligible fittings for the car that an individual may not 
have noticed. These were large items. Given the cost of the carbon fibre wheels was 
£12,000, its reasonable to expect that Mr M would have inspected each carbon fibre wheel, 
or at least checked that they were all present at the point the car was delivered to him, or 
shortly after. However, four months passed before Mr M says he noticed one of the carbon 
fibre wheels was missing. D has said it put four boxes with the wheels in the car and Mr M 
has confirmed there were four boxes in the car. All parties also agree that three of the 
wheels were in the car and so having carefully considered this, I see no compelling reason 
why D wouldnt place the fourth wheel in the box Mr M has confirmed he received.
Ive also considered Mr M and the car supplied here. This was a rare, specialist car where 
Mr M spent a large amount of money on some additional wheels. I think its fair to say its 
likely Mr M is a car enthusiast. Given this, even if I accept he wasnt planning on using them, 
or the car itself, for a time I think on balance its most likely he wouldve wanted to see the 
wheels that hed paid £12,000 for sooner than four months after he purchased them.
On balance, I think its more likely than not that the car was supplied with all four of the 
carbon fibre wheels at the time it was delivered to Mr M. And so, I dont think there has been 
a breach of contract, or misrepresentation, considering s75. It follows that I dont think HSBC 
need to change its outcome in respect of the s75 claim. 
Service provided to Mr M by HSBC
A chargeback is limited to the amount paid on a plastic card. In this case, Mr M paid £1,000 
on his credit card and has already made a successful chargeback claim for around £800.   
Mr Ms current claim is for more than £11,500. In light of the fact that Mr M would only be 
able to claim around £200 if his chargeback claim is successful, I dont think the 
circumstances of Mr Ms claim are suited to the chargeback scheme. 
However, HSBC raised a chargeback and told Mr M that in total, he couldnt claim more than 
the £1,000 he had paid on his credit card. This is because Mr M made a previous 
unconnected successful chargeback claim for around £800. However, Mr M had already told 
HSBC he was claiming for the cost of the missing carbon fibre wheel. As this was in excess 
of the amount Mr M could have claimed under the chargeback scheme, I dont think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to raise a chargeback claim. I note in April 2022, HSBC offered to refund around £200 as the remaining amount of the chargeback available to Mr M, but he 
didnt accept this.
As a result of HSBC raising a chargeback claim rather than considering s75, this caused a 
number of delays and I can see that Mr M chased an outcome to his dispute on a number of 
occasions. Ive seen internal HSBC emails from as late as April 2022 which confirm that 
HSBC didnt realise that Mr M had made two separate claims. I think this was poorly 
handled.
In light of this, I think HSBC caused avoidable delays of around four months which caused 
stress and inconvenience to Mr M. HSBC has already agreed to pay Mr M £250 
recommended by our investigator. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount considering all 
the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part. I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr M 
£250 for any distress and inconvenience caused to him.*
* If HSBC does not pay this £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision, then it must also pay 8% 
simple yearly interest on this, from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman