DRN-1610129
 
The complaint
Mrs F complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a complaints 
management company. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mrs F took out in May 
1997. It was sold in store.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs F disagreed 
saying, in summary, that she didn't know she had PPI so wouldn't have been able to make a 
claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs F's case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs F's complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mrs F aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding 
PPI. As this happened many years ago, I cant be sure exactly what happened, so I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can't be sure what was discussed when the PPI was sold, so I've relied more on what the 
paperwork from the time shows.
I've seen a copy of the application form Mrs F signed. Looking at this it has a separate 
section about the PPI. Mrs F had to tick a box to show that she wanted to take out PPI. It's 
possible the form, including this tick in the PPI box, was completed on her behalf by the 
member of staff based on what was discussed and agreed. But Ive not seen anything that 
makes me think Mrs F wouldnt have been able to check through what she was signing 
before she signed it. 
So, overall and on balance, I think it would have been clear to Mrs F at the time that she had 
a choice about taking PPI. And that she chose to take it. I can understand why she may 
have forgotten this.AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs F got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Fs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As she could 
have benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information 
about these things would have affected her decision take out PPI. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable and she could have cancelled it at any time.
Overall, I dont think Mrs F has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done 
wrong. 
 My final decision 
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman