DRN-2451140
The complaint
Miss D has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund cash machine 
transactions which she didnt make.
What happened
Miss D opened a new bank account with Halifax in July 2019. A transfer of £5,500 was made 
into the account on 27 August.
On 30 August Miss D went shopping to buy a few things before she went on holiday later in 
September. She didnt then need to use her debit card for a while. On 10 September she 
contacted Halifax as shed lost her debit card. She was stunned to find £5,500 had been 
withdrawn from her account and complained.
Halifax wouldnt refund her. They believed shed either made the withdrawals herself or 
allowed them to be made. They then took steps to close Miss Ds account by giving her 
60 days notice.
Miss D was unhappy with what had happened. She brought her complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by Halifax about the cash machine 
withdrawals. She noted the correct PIN had been used right from the start. The person using 
Miss Ds debit card had also not checked the balance of Miss Ds account suggesting they 
may well have known how much money she had in it. Overall she believed it was most likely 
Miss D had authorised these transactions to be made. She wasnt going to ask Halifax to do 
anything further.
Miss D disagreed with this outcome. Shes asked an ombudsman to make a decision on her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain further.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones 
fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Halifax and Miss D have told us. 
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were made 
were covered in our investigators view of 15 December 2020. I dont intend to repeat 
everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the basis 
of my decision. I can reassure Miss D and Halifax Ive considered the file thoroughly.
There are a few things which suggest Miss D may have known about and authorised these 
transactions:
Miss D has changed her evidence about exactly what happened. Shes more recently 
told us that when she went shopping to buy holiday clothes, it was quite a hurly-burly. 
She was pushed to the ground. That could have been when her debit card went 
missing. This is quite a horrible thing to have happened. But Id have expected that 
when shed picked herself up, shed have checked that she had everything she 
needed before going further.
Miss D hasnt been able to show what she was doing for money in the period 
between shopping on 30 August and going on holiday by which time she knew her 
debit card was missing. She said she had other accounts, which have now been 
closed.
Miss D only paid in £5,500 a few days before she lost her card. Its quite a 
coincidence that Miss D lost her card just days after making a large transfer into her 
account. Particularly when I take into account this account had been opened less 
than two months previously and had barely been used to date.
Whoever used Miss Ds card never once initially checked the account balance or 
input an incorrect PIN. This suggests someone knew how much money was in 
Miss Ds account. The first check on the balance in the account wasnt until 
5 September 2019.
The first withdrawal was for £500. Its not the case that everyone is able to withdraw 
that much from a cash machine in one day. Id have expected an unknown third party 
to have started with trying to withdraw a lower amount. 
Miss D has told us shed been looking for her card unsuccessfully for a couple of 
days at home before contacting Halifax. In fact she logged onto online banking about 
20 minutes before calling Halifax. If Miss D was worried about where her card was, 
Im surprised she didnt log on to her account earlier.
If an unknown third party had stolen Miss Ds debit card, Id wonder firstly how they knew her 
PIN. Miss D has told us she hadnt kept her PIN notification as she could remember the PIN, 
although she admits to struggling with recalling passwords for online banking. Except I note 
this account with Halifax had been recently opened. Miss D had only used the card with its 
PIN twice by the time it went missing. Theres nothing to show Miss D had changed the PIN 
from the one Halifax had randomly allocated to her. These facts suggest its very unlikely 
Miss Ds card was being used by an unknown third party.
I appreciate Miss D strenuously disputes what our investigator concluded. Miss D has argued theres no basis  based on the PSRs and what they state  for Halifax to 
reject her claim. However I dont agree. When we consider a case about disputed 
transactions, we take into account all the wider circumstances we can discover. In Miss Ds 
complaint, I think its most likely Miss D knew about and authorised the cash machine 
withdrawals.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Ds complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman