DRN-3148388
The complaint
 Ms P complains about a loan provided to her by TFS Loans Limited trading as
TFS Loans, which she says was unaffordable.
 
What happened
  TFS Loans provided Ms P with a loan. The details of which are given in this table:
Number Taken Amount Monthly repayment Instalments
1 July 2017 £1500 £123.52 18
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She concluded 
that TFS Loans should have carried out further checks. She went on to say TFS Loans didnt 
make a fair lending decision. So, she upheld Ms Ps complaint.
TFS Loans disagreed with our investigators view. It said it carried out proportionate checks 
and made fair lending decision when it agreed to lend and gave several reasons why it felt 
this was the case.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When TFS Loans lent to Ms P, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
TFS Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Ms Ps creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
TFS Loans had to consider both the risk to it that Ms P wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Ms P of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, TFS Loans had to consider Ms Ps ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without her having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without her failing to make any other repayment she had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
her financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Ps case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Ms Ps 
loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? If it did, did TFS Loans then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did TFS Loans carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that TFS Loans asked Ms P about her income and expenditure. It has told our 
service that it verified Ms Ps income by asking for a payslip. It then asked Ms P for her 
expenditure and says it also checked through credit search results.
TFS Loans says it verified Ms Ps income as £1250 and then after asking about expenditure, 
it recorded an amount of £961.65. It worked out that Ms P would have £338.23 disposable 
income. 
Ive carefully considered what TFS Loans has said about how it calculated Ms Ps 
disposable income when it agreed to lend to her. I dont think its checks were proportionate. I 
say this because I can see that the amount borrowed, the total repayment and the length of 
the loan (18 months) would lead me to think on balance that it should have carried out a 
complete review of Ms Ps finances. I think this is also particularly the case, when I consider 
the adverse data that was showing on Ms Ps credit search results. I think on seeing this 
report, it ought to have asked for further information to seek a better understanding of Ms Ps 
finances. I cant see that it did do this with regards to her expenditure in particular. I think it 
should have asked for further information about this.
As I cant see that this TFS Loans did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Ms P with his loan was reasonable and proportionate.
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?Ive concluded the checks TFS Loans carried out werent proportionate and that they needed 
to do more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks, because I dont think TFS Loans made a fair lending decision when it 
lent to Ms P anyway, based on what it had in front of it. I say this because when I look 
through the credit search TFS Loans carried out, I agree with our investigator when she said 
Ms P was having problems managing her finances. 
The loan payments being affordable on a pounds and pence basis, something TFS Loans 
says was the case, might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their 
repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant 
regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulty  in particular without 
incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ms P had accrued five defaults all with outstanding balances to repay. These were from 
accounts that were largely historical, but all of these accounts had balances that Ms P was 
expected still to repay. Ms P had not managed to settle these defaulted accounts, and this 
would seem at odds with TFS Loans assessment of her finances and the amount of 
disposable income it had calculated she would have. 
In addition, Ms P had already committed to a loan with a repayment of £195 a month, along 
with home credit with a repayment of £86 a week. This means that with the repayment of this 
loan Ms P would be potentially committing around £660 of her monthly income to debt. This 
is a significant amount of her income and committing over 50% of it ought to have raised 
concerns with TFS Loans about Ms Ps likelihood of repaying this loan over the 18-month 
term.
Taking matters as a whole, I think on balance that TFS Loans ought reasonably to have 
realised that Ms P was finding it difficult to repay her existing credit commitments. It was 
unlikely that she would be able to sustainably repay the loan over the extended terms 
provided. I think in these particular circumstances (from the credit information on her report); 
TFS Loans should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to her.
As Ms P has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the 
loan that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a 
result of what TFS Loans did wrong. So, I think TFS Loans needs to put things right.
Putting things right
  In line with this Services approach, Ms P shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. With this in mind, TFS Loans should:
add up the total amount of money Ms P received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Ms P made should be deducted from this amount. 
Any payments made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Ms P was given 
should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her;add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Ms P to the date of settlement;
If there is an amount left outstanding to repay, TFS Loans should show forbearance 
and look to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms P.
remove any adverse information placed on Ms Ps credit file because of the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Ms P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ps complaint for the reasons set out above and require 
TFS Loans Limited, to put things right.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman