DRN-4090186
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin
Money in relation to an outstanding balance on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr B held a credit card account with Virgin Money. In 2022 he received letters about an
outstanding balance. He says he didnt know there was anything to pay on the account, as
the balance showing on his internet banking was £0. He says that telephone banking was
also reporting a zero balance. Mr B says he found out later that a merchant had mistakenly
overcharged him for a purchase he made in December 2021 and that was the transaction
which caused the issue.
Virgin Money says that Mr B should have been aware from his statements that a payment
was due. It says that statements were sent in January and February 2022. Mr B says he 
didnt receive the statements and only became aware of the outstanding balance when he 
received the letters demanding payment and imposing penalties.
Mr B wanted to see his transaction history but says he couldnt access it through internet
banking. He asked Virgin Money but says it couldnt provide this. He says that Virgin Money
was only able to send him printed statements, which didnt arrive until months later and
didnt cover the relevant transaction period.
Mr B says the balance had been transferred to a new card which Virgin Money had issued
without him knowing. He says he wasnt expecting a new card because his existing one was
valid for two more years. Mr B says he never received the new card. He says that, when he
called Virgin Money, it told him the new card would appear on his internet banking and he
would be able to pay the balance. But Mr B says his original card disappeared from internet
banking and the new card never appeared. He says he found out during a later call that
Virgin Money was withdrawing the internet banking facility for credit cards and that he would
have to use its app instead. He says he doesnt have the facility to use the app.
Virgin Money says that Mr B called in February 2022 to report his card as lost, so it issued a
replacement. But it says no other cards were sent to him before that. It says that all
customers were told they would have to manage their accounts through the app from mid-
February 2022 and that they could call Virgin Money if they couldnt use the app. It says that
the internet banking facility was removed in mid-February 2022.
Mr B complained to Virgin Money but says he had to log a second complaint because Virgin
Money lost the first one. He then referred the complaint to this service. He says he spent
many hours on the phone to Virgin Money trying to sort out the issue and has been worried
about a possible impact on his credit rating. He would like compensation and confirmation
that his credit file hasnt been affected.
Virgin Money said that, because Mr B didnt make the minimum payment requested in his
statements, it was correct in reporting missed payments to the Credit Reference Agencies.
But it said it had refunded the associated interest and late payment charges as a gesture of
goodwill. It also accepted that Mr B had experienced long call waiting times and said it was
willing to pay him £50 for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 March 2023 indicating my intention to uphold this 
complaint. Mr B accepted the provisional decision. Virgin Money said that some parts of the 
provisional decision were misleading, but it agreed to the redress I had proposed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, when I reviewed this complaint, I requested some 
further information and clarification from Virgin Money. No response was provided, so I 
made the provisional decision based on the information which was available to me at the 
time. Virgin Money has commented on the provisional decision but hasnt provided any new 
evidence. Ive considered its comments, but they dont change my mind about the 
appropriate outcome here. So, Im going to uphold this complaint in the way I indicated in the 
provisional decision. My reasons are set out below.
Ive reached this decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened, in light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
I think its worth starting by saying that Mr Bs account was held with Clydesdale Bank and
that the events here took place at the time when Clydesdale accounts were being changed
over to Virgin Money accounts. From what Ive seen, I think this migration played a part in
the problems Mr B experienced. I dont think he should be disadvantaged because of this.
New card
Mr B says that, unbeknown to him, Virgin Money sent him a new card in connection with the
re-branding of his account. But he says he never received it. When responding to the 
provisional decision, Virgin Money said that Mr B was told he would receive a new Virgin 
Money branded credit card. I havent seen any evidence of this, but I find that a new card 
was issued in February 2022. However, the evidence shows this was the result of a call from 
Mr B saying hed lost his card.
This replacement card was issued on 16 February 2022. Virgin Money said in response to 
the provisional decision that it wouldnt have issued a replacement card before Mr Bs call on 
16 February 2022. This is consistent with my finding that no card was issued before 16 
February 2022.
By this date, Mr Bs internet banking facility was no longer in use (see below). I think that 
explains why the new card didnt appear on his internet banking.
Removal of internet banking facility
Virgin Money says that Mr B couldnt use internet banking after 14 February 2022 (the date
on which the Virgin Money app became available to him). But it says his internet banking
facility would have functioned as normal until that date. The transaction in question took
place in December 2021. So, it should have shown on Mr Bs internet banking before that
facility was withdrawn. But Mr B says it didnt and the balance was zero.
I havent seen anything which confirms the internet banking balance or explains why thistransaction wouldnt have appeared there. But I have no reason to doubt what Mr B says
about this. If hed been able to see a debit balance through internet banking, he wouldnt
have been surprised to receive letters chasing payment and he wouldnt have needed to
contact Virgin Money to request a transaction history.
Virgin Money says it contacted all customers to tell them they would have to use the app
from 14 February 2022. Mr B doesnt seem to have known this as he says he only found out
on a later phone call to Virgin Money. But I dont think it makes a difference here whether he
knew in advance or not. Thats because the transaction occurred in December 2021 and the
payment was due by 3 February 2022. The app wasnt available to Mr B until after this. His
internet banking should have been working as normal until 14 February 2022 and the debit
balance should have been reflected there. I dont think it was.
January and February statements
Virgin Money says that, in any event, Mr B ought to have known a payment was due
because it was shown on his statements. It has provided copy statements from January and
February 2022. But Mr B says he didnt receive them. I havent seen anything which
confirms the statements were sent to Mr B at the time they were generated. And Virgin
Moneys customer notes support his comments that he didnt receive them.
The notes show that Mr B contacted Virgin Money on 13 February 2022 and asked for his
January statement. During a call on 14 March 2022, he requested statements from
December to March. The notes say that the account has been queue to Clydesdale to
request statements from December 2021 to February 2022 and that Virgin Money doesnt
have access to these statements.
Its not clear whether the January statement was sent to Mr B after the February call. It looks
as though it wasnt, as he requested it again in March and the notes confirm that Virgin
Money couldnt access the statements. In any event, by the time Mr B first requested any
statements, the payment was overdue, interest and a late payment fee had been applied.
So I dont think Mr B received the statements in time to make payment before the due date.
Mr B should have known about the transaction
Virgin Money says that Mr B would have known hed made the purchase in December 2021,
so ought to have been aware a payment would be due. But Mr B says the transaction was
an overpayment charged by the merchant in error, so he didnt know about it. I havent seen
any details of this. But I note that the merchant gave a partial refund in February 2022, so
Im satisfied that there was a mistake with the transaction.
The refund was for part of the transaction only, so it seems that Mr B did need to pay
something. But I think he ought to have been able to rely on his internet banking to know
whether he needed to pay anything to Virgin Money and when. As I explained above, I dont
think the transaction was reflected there. Virgin Moneys notes also support what Mr B says
about it not being able to tell him the transaction history of the account. Without this
information, I dont think he could have known how much, if anything, he needed to pay.
Conclusion
In conclusion, I dont think Mr B was aware that a payment was due on his account by 3
February 2022 and I dont think he could have known. I think that, by the time he became
aware, the payment was already overdue. I dont think that was Mr Bs fault.When Mr B contacted Virgin Money, I dont think it provided clear information. Mr B received
poor customer service, which Virgin Money has acknowledged to some extent. But I think
this goes beyond the long call waiting times. It seems that there was an issue with the
visibility and communication of Mr Bs account information around the time of the migration
to Virgin Money. I dont know why that was the case. But I dont think it was Mr Bs fault and I
dont think he should be worse off as a result. I think he has been inconvenienced and needs
to be compensated for this as well as the worry caused by the situation.
I think Virgin Money should pay Mr B compensation of £200 to put this right.
Virgin Money has indicated that it reported missed payments to the Credit Reference
Agencies. I havent seen any details of the reporting and I understand the account is now
closed. But I think any adverse reports made from January 2022 onwards should be
removed.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
should:
pay compensation of £200 to Mr B; and
ask the Credit Reference Agencies to remove any adverse entries made from
January 2022 onwards.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman