DRN-2005674
The complaint
Mr P complains that Capital One (Europe) plc unfairly declined his credit card application 
despite information on its website suggesting it would be approved.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr P was looking to apply for a credit card with Capital One. Prior to his 
application, Mr P used a quick check facility on Capital Ones website which gives 
applicants an indication of whether the application will be approved before its submitted. 
Mr P says this online tool said his application would be accepted so he applied for the card. 
But the following day, following further checks, Capital One declined the application.
Mr P complained and said the application was misleading, as hed been told it would be 
approved with 100% certainty. And this declined application has impacted his credit score.
Capital One said it informed Mr P at the time of application that further checks would need to 
be completed before the card would be approved. And it said it had declined the application 
in line with its lending criteria following these checks. 
Mr P disagreed and one of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Capital 
One had acted unfairly when it declined Mr Ps application and said the online quick check 
was an early indication, not a guarantee. Mr P disagreed and so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr P disputes that he was given clear information by Capital One. So Ive looked at what 
information it presented to him within its quick check tool online. 
Capital One has given me screenshots from the application. These show to begin the quick 
check, Mr P was asked to input his details, including income, occupation and where he lived. 
Above the application it included three headings which said:
Response in 60 seconds
Wont affect your credit rating
100% certainty before you apply
Each of these headings has a link button next to it that provides the potential application with 
more information. Under the third heading it said Capital One would contact credit reference 
agencies to show the applicant had applied for credit if they go ahead with the card 
application. So it seems clear to me that Capital One had let Mr M know that an application 
being made would result in details being passed to a credit reference agency. Below this it 
says: 
there is a small chance that we may be unable to open your account if we identify certain 
information on fraud prevention databases or if we are not able to verify your identity.
So it seems Capital One also informed Mr P that there were exceptions to applications being 
successful and this wasnt a guarantee.
Mr P has said he was told the application would be accepted with 100% certainty. But having 
carefully read the information that was presented to him myself, I disagree. 
For these reasons Im not persuaded Capital One has mis-led Mr P. And Im satisfied it gave 
him the information he needed before he applied.
Mr P has said the declined application has affected his credit score. Capital One has 
explained the declined application isnt reported to the credit reference agencies, only that a 
credit search was carried out. I appreciate Mr Ps frustration, but Capital One must 
accurately report information to the credit reference agencies  and thats what it has done. 
So Im not going to direct it to remove any information from his credit file. 
I have also considered whether Capital One fairly declined Mr Ps application. Capital One 
makes commercial decisions about what its lending criteria is, and who it will and wont do 
business with. It is not for me or this service to make decisions about this criteria, only to 
ensure that it applies its criteria fairly. 
Having considered the information and reasons Capital One has provided for declining Mr 
Ps application, Im satisfied it did so fairly. And overall, Im persuaded Capital One has acted 
fairly and reasonably during Mr Ps credit card application, and the subsequent declination. 
So Im not directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman