DRN-3837110
The complaint
The estate of Mr P complains that Reassured Ltd didnt give Mr P the correct advice about 
how his mortgage protection policy should be set up.
What happened
The late Mr P had recently taken out up a new mortgage protection policy on a joint life basis 
with his partner and asked Reassured for a comparison of costs. During a telephone call 
Reassured provided the cost of providing life and critical illness cover for Mr P and his 
partner using two separate policies to protect the mortgage. Mr P completed an application 
for a policy in his name on an own life basis. 
Unfortunately, Mr P passed in 2020 and didnt leave a Will. Mr Ps estate, through the rules 
of intestacy, passed to a child (child G) of Mr P and his partner. Some estate funds were 
used to pay-off a significant amount of the mortgage and the rest is held for child G until the 
child reaches 18. The administrators of Mr Ps estate say this could have been avoided if the 
policy had been written in trust as the benefits wouldve fallen outside of the estate and been 
paid to Mr Ps partner.
Reassured didnt uphold the complaint and said at the time it didnt provide advice to its 
customers and had made this clear to Mr P. Reassured says it provided Mr P with 
information about how the policy could be put in trust, but Mr P didnt complete the trust 
forms it sent or ask for any further information in this regard.
The administrators of Mr Ps estate brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service where one of our Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that 
Reassured didnt provide Mr P with enough information about how the payments of benefits 
on the new policy may differed from the existing policies if a claim was paid. The new policy 
proceeds were paid to the administrators of the estate, and they made a decision to make a 
significant payment to the joint mortgage account. The Investigator acknowledged that this 
has caused inconvenience and upset to Mr Ps family. However, the Investigator said that as 
child G wasnt an eligible complainant Reassured didnt have to pay any remedy to 
recognise this.
The administrators of Mr Ps estate asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to apologise for the delay in an Ombudsman considering this complaint. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service tries to deal with complaints as quickly as possible and, 
wherever possible, in the order in which they are ready to be decided. Unfortunately, weve 
had a high volume of complaints for this type of product which has led to longer waiting 
times for consumers and businesses. Im really sorry this has been the case here.
Mr P had recently put in place a joint life first claim policy for himself and his partner to 
provide life and critical illness cover to protect their joint mortgage. Reassured compared the 
cost of cover for the joint life policy against the cost of two separate policies. Mr P said he 
wanted to proceed with two separate policies and completed his application on the 
telephone call and arrangements were made for Mr Ps partner to apply for a separate 
policy.
The administrators of Mr P estate say Reassured failed to make proper arrangements to 
ensure the policy sold met the requirements of Mr P. However, in the call with Reassured, 
Mr P said he wanted to ensure the joint mortgage he and his partner held would be paid off if 
he passed  he didnt ask that the benefits be paid to his partner. In this call Reassured 
made it reasonably clear to Mr P that it didnt provide financial advice  however, as the 
policy was sold on a non-advised basis, I can consider whether Reassured provided Mr P 
with enough information for him to make an informed decision about which type of policy 
was suitable for his needs at the time. 
Reassured didnt discuss placing the policy in trust during the call but did include trust forms 
along with an explanation about why it may be useful to write a policy under trust - and that 
placing the policy under trusts would mean and benefits paid on Mr Ps passing would be 
paid directly to a specific person of Mr Ps choice. I think the documents Reassured sent to 
Mr P were reasonably clear in explaining the benefits of writing a policy under trust and Im 
persuaded this was enough for Mr P to have made an informed decision about how the 
benefits of the policy could be paid and whether to write the policy under trust. The funds will 
have fallen outside of Mr Ps estate if the policies had been written under trust but taking into 
account Mr P didnt decide to write the policy under trust, it seems more likely than not his 
intention was for the funds to be used to pay-off the joint mortgage rather than having the 
benefits payable directly to his partner.
Although its clear that cost considerations and extra life cover were a factor for Mr P, I dont 
think Reassured did enough to explain the difference in the way benefits would be paid 
under a single life policy rather than a joint life policy  the policy Mr P held with his partner 
at the time. Instead Reassured focussed on the additional protection two single life policies 
would provide. In my opinion, Reassured should have explained the difference between how 
a single life policy on an own life basis would pay out a claim versus how a claim would be 
paid out on a joint life policy. However, even if the benefits had been paid to Mr Ps partner 
there would have been no obligation for his partner to have paid off the mortgage  which 
isnt what Mr P wanted. 
At the time Mr P purchased the policy it was suitable for his needs  it would provide 
sufficient benefits to pay off the mortgage. Sometime after the policy started, Mr P and his 
partner had child G. This meant that if no further action was taken, the policy benefits would 
pass to child G under Intestacy rules when Mr P passed. In hindsight it would have been 
useful if Mr P and his partner had made a Will after child G was born, but this didnt happen. 
When Mr P passed, the benefits of the policy were paid to the administrators of the estate. 
The administrators of the estate used some of the proceeds from the policy to reduce the 
outstanding joint mortgage but chose not to clear the balance as this retained the option for 
the late Mr Ps partner to borrow more funds at a later date if required. This was done on the 
understanding that child G retained a proportionate legal interest in the property. 
The estate of Mr P says Mr Ps partner experienced severe financial difficulties after Mr P 
passed and it was decided that the mortgage should be reduced so as to make the 
repayments affordable - and prevent further complications due to escalating indebtedness to 
mitigate potential losses by Mr Ps partner and thereby protecting child G. I appreciate what 
the estate of Mr P is saying here, but I cant comment of the decisions made by the estate in 
this regard. This was a non-advised sale and I think it would be unfair and unreasonable for me to decide that Reassured should now pay the proceeds of the policy to Mr Ps partner 
and take action to recover the amount from the estate. 
The late Mr Ps family and partner will have been caused some stress by the sum assured 
being paid to the estate for the benefit of G, but I can only consider directing a remedy to the 
eligible customer of Reassured. Unfortunately, in this case, this would have been Mr P and 
not the estate or other family members. For completeness, Ive seen that the administrators 
havent incurred any additional fees in dealing with Mr Ps estate when dealing with this 
matter.
Reassured should have done more to explain to Mr P the difference between a joint life 
policy and two sperate policies, so Ive decided to uphold the complaint. But Im persuaded it 
was more likely than not Mr Ps wish that the mortgage be paid off if he passed and this is 
essentially what has happened. So, for the reasons Ive outlined above, I wont be asking 
Reassured to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive provided above Ive decided to uphold this complaint, but I wont be 
asking Reassured Ltd to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman