DRN-4230054
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that when he applied for a quote for car finance with Carfinance247 Limited 
(Carfinance247), it led to credit searches being carried out, with one remaining on his credit 
file. He complains that the search was carried out without his authority. He would therefore 
like his credit file to be amended to show no check being carried out.
What happened
Mr K applied for a for a loan quote in January 2023. The purpose of the loan was to
refinance a car loan balloon payment.
Mr K says it was his understanding that CarFinance247 only needed to check his bank 
details and drivers licence in order to provide him with the quotation.
Carfinance247 has confirmed that a search that would appear in Mt Ks credit file  a so-
called hard search  was carried out. It says its advisor told Mr K that it would first be 
running an active account credit check. It also says Mr K agreed to its privacy policy when 
he asked for the quote and that this said that it was entitled to carry out a hard search. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Mr K was told 
a full credit check would be carried out as part of the quotation process. 
Mr K wasnt happy with this outcome so his complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think that CarFinance247 has acted wrongly or unfairly. I will explain why.
Mr K made an enquiry about finance to Carfinance247. Carfinance247 acts as a broker to 
match up customers with potential lenders who may decide to offer finance once they have 
carried out certain checks, including credit checks.
When first contacted by a consumer seeking a quote, Carfinance247 asks for a consumers 
bank details so that a potential lender can carry out an active account check. In Mr Ks case, 
Ive seen that the adviser from Carfinance247 told Mr K in an online chat that it would first 
need to check his bank details in order to start his application. Once that had happened, an 
application form was generated and Mr K was required to agree to CarFinance247s terms 
and conditions and privacy policy before his application could go further. The next stage of 
the quotation process would involve potential lenders carrying out checks with credit 
reference agencies in order to find out more about Mr Ks financial situation and credit 
history. 
Although our investigator has already made reference to it I think the following extract from 
the privacy statement bears repeating:
Whenever you apply for any of our products and/or services, or to make decisions about 
future products, services and offers that we think you may be interested in the future we 
and/or our lenders will carry out checks with credit reference agencies ("CRAs"), including - 
Checks against data relating to your financial situation and financial history. These checks 
may be referred to as "hard searches" or "credit application searches" and may be visible to 
other third parties, such as potential lenders.
I am satisfied that Mr K had the opportunity to agree, or not to agree, to the Carfinance247 
terms and conditions and privacy policy it provided him with a part of its process for 
obtaining finance quotations. I think Mr K would or ought to have been aware that a hard 
search  one that would likely be recorded on his credit file  would need to be carried out as 
part of the quotation process when he made his application.
Ive also seen that Mr K is concerned as to why his application was apparently accepted by a 
some potential lenders, whilst others declined it. Carfinance247 says this reflects what may 
happen following an initial acceptance in principle by a lender when the application goes 
through further checks. In Mr Ks case, Mr K had received several acceptances in principle 
but none of these resulted in a full approval. Such a process isnt unusual, given that car 
finance quotations will take into account a consumers financial circumstances as revealed 
by checking the credit reference agency they have been given access to. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr K suffered any loss as a result of what happened  that is 
as a consequence of hard search being carried out in his name. I dont think he did.
It was of course open to Mr K to choose not to agree to any searches being carried out, in 
which case his application would not have gone ahead given that potential finance providers 
would not be able to assess the likelihood of K being in a position to repay. 
To summarise, I am satisfied that as part of the process of applying for a quotation, Mr K 
was given the opportunity to see and review its terms and conditions and privacy policies. I 
therefore agree with our investigator that Carfinance247 took sufficient steps to ensure that 
Mr K was aware of the checks that would need to be carried out in order to obtain one or 
more quotes for him. So I am not requiring Carfinance247 to do anything more. 
I am sorry that this probably isnt the outcome that Mr K was hoping for. But I cant see that 
Carfinance247 acted unfairly or unreasonably or that it misled Mr K about the checks that 
would be carried out when he applied for the quotation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not requiring Carfinance247 Limited to take any further 
action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman