DRN-3571049
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund money he was tricked 
into sending to a fraudster.
What happened
Mr C was contacted by someone claiming to represent an investment company after hed left 
his contact details online. 
The first email he received displayed a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) registration 
number which linked to a genuine firm. Following this contact, and after carrying out some 
research on the firm, Mr C agreed to purchase corporate bonds in two household names - 
£100,000 in one company and £85,000 in a second. The coupon rates for the bonds were 
between 6% and 7%. The payments were made to accounts operated by two different 
regulated firms.
In early April 2020, Mr C transferred the money to the investment company in amounts of 
£25,000. The first payment was flagged by Halifaxs security systems and Mr C spoke to the 
bank. A recording of this conversation is not available but there is a written record, the 
accuracy of which is disputed. 
Mr C could see his investment through an online portal provided by the investment company. 
By late April 2020 the investment company had suggested that Mr C also purchase 
government bonds costing £100,000. Mr C agreed to do this, but because some of his 
money was tied up, his partner, Ms S, agreed to provide half the money for this investment 
and paid £50,000 from her own account. Again, Mr C transferred the money in amounts of 
£25,000. 
In mid-May 2020, Mr C tried to log on to his account with the investment company but was 
unable to do so. Now worried, Mr C and Ms S searched online and found that a warning had 
been issued by the FCA alerting consumers to the fact that the genuine investment company 
had been impersonated or cloned. 
Mr C reported the matter to Halifax. It is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code, which requires firms to refund customers in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. In this case, it said that two exceptions to 
reimbursement applied  that Mr C had ignored an Effective Warning and made the 
payments without a reasonable basis for belief. It did, however, pay Mr C £350 
compensation to reflect deficiencies in its complaint handling and the impact this had on Mr 
C.
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators upheld it. They thought 
that neither the written warnings provided to Mr C nor the telephone call that took place prior 
to the first payment constituted an Effective Warning under the CRM Code. 
They also thought that Mr C had carried out sufficient research into the investment before 
deciding to go ahead  so he hadnt lacked a reasonable basis for believing the investment 
to be legitimate.
They recommended that Mr C be refunded the amount he lost - £235,000, as well as interest 
based on the Bank of Englands published rate for two-year fixed rate bonds.
Halifax disagreed, in summary it said:
- The rate of return for the bonds was too good to be true.
- Mr C knew this, he was an experienced investor and hed recently received funds 
back from a legitimate investment of a similar nature, which only paid 1.25% interest 
per year.
- The notes of the call that took place prior to the first payment show that Mr C was 
aware of the risk of continuing with the payment if the firm had been cloned. The 
advisor also said that they could not verify that the investment company was 
genuine. 
- Mr C was aware that firms could be cloned as hed mentioned being dissuaded from 
investing in another firm because hed seen warnings on the FCA website that the 
firm had been cloned.
- The fact the payments were not made directly to the investment company should 
have caused Mr C concern.
Despite further clarification from our investigator, Halifax continued to disagree. Mr C said 
that hed broadly accept the investigators findings but would like me to consider whether 8% 
interest should be paid instead of the investigators interest recommendation.
So, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr C made the payments to the fraudsters himself. So, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account, he is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. However, thats not the end of the story, Halifax are signatories 
of the CRM Code and have well-established obligations to be on the lookout for out of 
character and unusual transactions to help (among other things) protect customers from 
financial harm from fraud.
Ive first considered whether Halifax have fairly relied on the exceptions set out in the CRM 
Code. 
Did Mr C ignore an Effective Warning? 
Halifax argue that Mr C ignored both written and verbal warnings that were Effective  that 
is one that meets the definition of Effective Warning in the CRM Code. 
Ive first considered the notes left by the advisor of the call which took place on 3 April 2020. 
The notes are not a transcript of the conversation and dont give me a good impression of 
what happened during the call. They dont record Mr Cs responses to any questions and 
there also doesnt appear to have been any description of how investment scams involving 
cloned companies work and how to avoid them. Also, despite Halifaxs subsequent 
arguments that the rate of return offered by the investment firm was too good to be true, the 
notes record nothing about this. Other than indicating that Mr C wouldnt get his money back if he falls victim to a scam, 
neither the notes nor the scam script which Halifax say was read (which doesnt appear to 
mention investment scams at all), demonstrate that any substantive and tailored warning 
was given. So, I cant agree that these notes demonstrate an Effective Warning was given. 
Halifax say that Mr C would have also seen the following warning when making each 
payment:
Just a minute
Be sure that you know who youre sending money to. Please check the account details with 
a trusted source. 
Fraudsters invent persuasive reasons to get you to make a payment. See all the latest 
scams fraudsters use on our fraud hub page.
Failure to take precautions before you make your payment could mean we are not able to 
get your money back in the event of fraud.
This warning is not specific to investment scams, it doesnt explain how they work and, 
overall, isnt likely to be impactful for Mr C, or anyone else in his circumstances. So, I dont 
think this warning meets the definition of Effective under the CRM Code.
Halifax further reference the results of the Confirmation of Payee checks that Mr C received 
when he tried to make the payments. But, those responses show that the names input by Mr 
C only differed slightly from the names of the actual accounts he wanted to pay. So, 
unsurprisingly no substantive warning was given  Mr C was simply asked whether he 
wanted to pay the accounts in question (which he did). 
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr C didnt ignore an Effective Warning.  
Did Mr C have a reasonable basis for believing that the recipient of his payments was 
legitimate and he was paying for genuine services?
Ive first considered Mr Cs basis for belief prior to the call on 3 April 2020. The paperwork 
Ive seen all looks very convincing and, it appears that Mr C and his partner carried out many 
of the checks Id expect of consumers with their knowledge and experience  checking that 
the website they visited was secure, checking that the bonds actually existed, calling the 
genuine firm and asking to confirm whether the employee they thought they were dealing 
with worked there and checking that the firm was on the FCA register (which it was, albeit 
under a slightly different name, without any warnings about the firm having been cloned). 
I note the banks comments about Mr Cs awareness that firms could be cloned, but I dont 
think its as significant as the bank argues. Mr C says he was dissuaded from investing in 
another firm because there was an existing FCA warning about it having been cloned. In that 
case, he had spoken to fraudsters impersonating another firm and had also found aspects of 
their communication concerning. That wasnt the case here  there was no warning about 
the firm he invested in being cloned until after the payments were made and, according to Mr 
C, nothing else that concerned him about the interaction. Theres not enough evidence that 
Mr C was aware of both the existence of cloned firms and how to avoid them.
I dont think the Confirmation of Payee result that Halifax seek to rely on is at all relevant 
here  the names Mr C entered for the accounts were essentially correct. Halifax have also 
questioned why Mr C wasnt being asked to pay the cloned investment company directly, but I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr C to believe that other, legitimate, firms would 
receive payments on their behalf. 
Halifax argue that the rates being offered were simply too good to be true. While the rates 
were significantly higher than he might have obtained from fixed-rate savings bonds, this is 
not what he was purchasing. The bonds were real products and the coupon rates the 
fraudsters promised matched those of the genuine bonds. I dont know how much of the 
relative complexity (and risk) of purchasing corporate bonds and government gilts was 
understood by Mr C, but I cant agree that the rates themselves were too good to be true 
(certainly in the case of the corporate bonds) for the simple reason that they were true. 
So, I think that Mr Cs reasonable basis for believing the recipient to be legitimate was strong 
going into the call on 4 April 2020 and, contrary to the banks arguments, I dont think that 
call ought to have done anything to change his mind.
I lament the fact that a call recording is not available. The notes are not a transcript, nor 
even a description of the conversation  but rather seem to be a summary of the advisors 
own research into the investment itself. Given the asymmetry in the level of knowledge 
between the bank and Mr C, its odd that it should argue that Mr C ought to have known that 
he was being scammed and yet accept that their own member of staff was unable to reach 
the same conclusion, despite carrying out their own research.
The advisor appears to have failed to inform Mr C that the contact details on the FCA 
register ought to match the ones on the website theyd been given. Neither do they appear to 
have given any other advice about how to establish whether a company was cloned. So, on 
the basis of the notes Ive seen, I cant say that Mr C lacked a reasonable basis for belief 
after this call either.
It follows that Halifax should reimburse him in full under the provisions of the CRM Code. 
In addition, its clear that Mr C was open and frank with the bank when they spoke on 4 April 
2020. As already stated, I dont think the advisor asked the right questions to identify 
whether Mr C was dealing with a cloned firm and also doesnt appear to have done 
adequate research into the investment. I think an opportunity to prevent the scam was 
missed and, given Mr C and his partner were clearly cautious about the investment, Im 
satisfied they wouldnt have gone ahead and the loss would have been prevented. The 
impact of this finding is limited, but it does mean that interest should be paid from the date of 
loss rather than the date Halifax declined his claim under the CRM Code.
In relation to interest, Mr C has asked me to consider whether fair compensation is 8% 
interest, rather than the rate recommended by the investigator  the Bank of Englands 
published rate for a two-year fixed rate bond.
Its accepted by both sides that Mr C was not looking to utilise his funds, other than to invest 
them. I understand that Mr C was looking to invest in bonds, but seemingly had little appetite 
for risk. Its difficult to know what Mr C would have done had it not been for the intervention 
of the fraudster. But, given that Mr C was looking for a low risk investment, I dont think its 
fair for him to be awarded 8% interest in this case. I think thats likely to put him in a better 
position than he would have been had the fraud not taken place. 
Instead, I think that it is fairer to award interest that would have been obtained had he 
invested in a two-year no-risk fixed-rate bond and the Bank of England rate is a reliable 
indicator of the average rate available at the time he invested. Ive decided that the two-year 
rate should be used on the basis that Mr C will be deprived of his funds for around two and a 
half years and, I understand, was prepared to invest his money for a relatively long period of 
time (so, had he invested in a genuine product, it would likely still be locked away at this 
point).  
While I accept that Mr C might have achieved a better rate than this in the open market, hes 
unlikely to have been able to achieve a significantly better rate without risking his capital. 
Mr C has made no further representations in relation to the investigators recommendation 
that the compensation already offered by Halifax is fair. In light of this, and having reviewed 
the points originally raised by Mr C carefully, I too think Halifaxs offer in relation to 
compensation is fair.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr C:
- The amount lost - £235,000, less any amount already returned or recovered.
- Interest calculated using the monthly average for two-year fixed-rate bonds, as 
published by the Bank of England for the month of April 2020, from the date of the 
transactions to the date of settlement. That rate should be applied on an annually 
compounded basis.
- The £350 compensation offered, if this has not already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman