DRN-2408903
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car acquired with finance from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In September 2019 Miss H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Oodle.
In November 2019 the car broke down and was diagnosed with engine failure. The car was 
recovered to the supplying dealer, who carried out repairs and returned the car to Miss H in 
January 2020.
Within a short time of getting the car back, Miss H experienced issues with the car going into 
limp mode with restricted speed and a warning light. Miss H contacted the supplying dealer 
and says she was promised a call back, which didnt happen. Shortly after this Miss H was 
involved in an accident in the car when another car crashed int her rear bumper.
When the car was in for repairs to the bumper with a third-party garage, the garage told Miss 
H that the car had a suspension issue. A diagnostic test showed that a warning light relating 
to the suspension had illuminated pre accident.
Miss H reported the suspension issue to Oodle, who arranged for an independent 
inspection. The engineer who carried out the inspection concluded that the suspension issue 
was due to wear and tear and that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Miss H wasnt happy with the response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the diagnostic report showed that the issue 
with the suspension arose soon after the repairs to the engine had taken place, and that the 
car wasnt durable because it still failed to conform to contract following the repairs. He said 
Miss H should be allowed to reject the car. 
Oodle didnt agree. It said that whilst it agreed that a reasonable person wouldnt expect an 
engine to fail within 2 months of the point of supply, it didnt think the suspension issue was 
present or developing at the point of supply or related to the engine repairs because it had 
arisen several weeks since the repairs had been completed. It said the suspension issue 
was due to wear and tear.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Oodle supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable, taking into account all of the relevant factors including (amongst other things) 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. In considering whether a car is of 
satisfactory quality, I take into account whether the car is fit for purpose, free from minor 
defects, durable and safe. I would expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Miss 
H  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs and maintenance more often 
than a brand-new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that 
the car had a fault which was present or developing at the point of supply, or wasnt of 
satisfactory because it wasnt fit for purpose, safe or durable, as opposed to there being a 
fault which occurred due to general wear and tear. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to 
the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the car. If 
the repair isnt successful in returning the car to satisfactory quality, the consumer can reject 
the car. After 6 months, its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
Miss H and Oodle disagree about whether the car was of satisfactory quality. Following a 
major fault with the engine after around 2 months, which was repaired, Miss H experienced 
issues with the suspension. She says the issue arose after the repairs but before a rear end 
accident. Oodle says the repairs to the engine were successful and that the suspension 
issue was unrelated to these repairs and was due to general wear and tear.
An experts report can help to determine whether a car is of satisfactory quality. Following 
Miss Hs reporting of the suspension issue, Oodle arranged an inspection. The inspecting 
engineer identified that the suspension ride height was slow to operate but said this was a 
known issue caused by wear and tear, where over time moisture is drawn into the 
suspension pump reducing its efficiency. The report concluded that the time elapsed since 
the point of supply led to a conclusion that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. 
As well as the independent inspection, Ive considered the opinion of the third-party garage 
who carried out repairs to the car following the rear end collision. It was of the opinion that 
the suspension issue wasnt related to the rear end damage. It provided diagnostic data 
showing that the suspension issue had been logged at an odometer reading which preceded 
the rear impact.
Based on what Ive seen, Im of the view that the suspension issue wasnt related to, or 
caused by, the rear end impact.
Ive gone on to consider whether the suspension issue was related to the repairs carried out 
to the engine. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was. I say this because firstly, Miss H 
didnt report an issue with the suspension until several weeks after shed got the car back 
following the repairs. Its clear from the relevant odometer readings that Miss H was able to 
drive the car following the repairs. Further, if the suspension issue had been related to the 
repairs, I would have expected it to present itself sooner, because the suspension ride height 
is something which operates each time the car is driven. Further, on Miss Hs own evidence, 
the warning light relating to the suspension didnt illuminate until several weeks after the 
repairs had been completed. This is consistent with the independent inspection report, which 
makes reference to a suspension error message on the dashboard. On balance, I dont think 
the suspension issue was related to the repairs.
This leaves the issue of whether the issue of whether there was a fault with the suspension 
which was present or developing at the point of supply. The suspension issue was reported 
to Oodle at the beginning of March 2020, which is outside of the first 6 months. However, the 
rear end accident occurred in mid-February 2020, and the third-party garage who repaired 
the car has provided diagnostic evidence showing that the suspension issue arose prior to this. On the balance of probability, I think the issue with the suspension arose just within the 
first 6 months. So, theres a presumption that the issue was present or developing at the 
point of supply. Oodle bears the burden of rebutting that presumption.
This brings me back to the independent inspection report, which identifies an issue with the 
suspension and concludes that it is due to wear and tear. In support of that conclusion, the 
engineer has referred to the length of time which has elapsed since the point of supply. Ive 
got concerns about this though. The engine failed in November 2019, just two months into 
the agreement. The car wasnt returned to Miss H until January 2020. By mid-February the 
suspension issue had arisen (based on the diagnostic report from the garage). Miss H didnt 
drive the car after this because she was advised not to by the third-party repairer. The 
independent inspection wasnt carried out until June 2020. I dont think the independent 
engineer has taken account of the fact that in the 9 months between the point of supply and 
the inspection, Miss H had only driven the car for around 3 months and had only covered 
around 2500 miles.
That being the case, I have to consider whether the cars durability was of a satisfactory 
quality. Whilst, as Ive already said, Id expect a degree of wear and tear with a second-hand 
car, I dont think a reasonable person would expect the suspension to fail after only 2500 
miles of use. On balance, I dont think the car was durable at the point of supply. This leads 
me to conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Putting things right
The relevant legislation says that the business is allowed one opportunity to repair a fault 
and bring the car back to satisfactory quality. Because theres already been one attempt at 
repair here, Im of the view that Miss H should now be allowed to reject the car.
Miss H hasnt driven the car since March on the advice of the third-party repairer. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Miss H to follow the advice of the repairer. Because Ive found 
that the suspension wasnt durable, and that a breach of contract has occurred, I think its fair 
that Miss H should receive a refund of all payments shes made since March 2020.
Its clear that the issues with the car have caused a significant degree of distress and 
inconvenience to Miss H. Because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality as a result of the 
suspension not being durable, Miss H has had to make alternative travel arrangements, as 
well as spend time pursuing this complaint. I think Oodle should pay compensation in 
recognition of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited must: 
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss H
Refund all payments made by Miss H since 10 March 2020 plus 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £150 to Miss H for distress and inconvenienceUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman