DRN-2783500
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M applied for a mortgage in February 1994 during a meeting at a branch of the 
bank. The mortgage started in May 1994, and the PPI seems to have been added later, in 
August 1994. Mr and Mrs M said they didnt agree to take the PPI and werent aware it had 
been added to the mortgage. 
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr M. The monthly cost 
in 1999 was £12.60 and the monthly benefit was £200 (these are the earliest figures 
available). If Mr M had made a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 
months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, and 
asked that it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021. Having reviewed all the evidence and 
information afresh, I said that I disagreed with our adjudicator, and proposed to uphold this 
complaint. Mr and Mrs M responded to the provisional decision and said they had nothing 
further to add. Lloyds did not submit any further evidence and said it would pay Mr and Mrs 
M the compensation I had described. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds sent in copies of Mr and Mrs Ms original mortgage application form and mortgage 
offer, along with copies of computer records of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage account and PPI 
policy. 
The mortgage application form includes a section headed MortgageSure  this was the 
name of the PPI policy on offer. Underneath the heading is the question Do you require 
cover against accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment? alongside which are yes 
and no tick boxes for applicants to state whether or not they want PPI. In this case there is 
a tick in the no box. It follows that the additional questions in this section of the form, that 
relate to eligibility for the policy, have not been answered. 
The mortgage offer was issued in April 1994. References to MortgageSure on the offer are 
marked not applicable  so clearly Mr and Mrs M had not changed their minds about PPI in 
the period between the application being completed and the offer being issued. 
We asked Lloyds for an explanation of how the PPI had been sold. However, Lloyds has not 
been able to explain why the PPI was sold after the mortgage application form was clearly 
ticked to say Mr and Mrs M did not want it - there is no information about why Mr and Mrs M 
might have changed their minds, and no evidence such as an application form for the policy 
to suggest that they did. 
Overall, from the evidence I have, I am not satisfied that Mr and Mrs M properly consented 
to the PPI. This is enough, in itself, for me to uphold a complaint. Therefore I said in my 
provisional decision that I proposed to uphold this complaint. As neither party sent in any 
new information in response to my provisional decision, and indeed Lloyds accepted it, my 
conclusions remain unchanged.
Putting things right
Lloyds should put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out the 
PPI. The policy has been cancelled, so Lloyds should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what they 
got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give Mr and 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Lloyds 
Bank plc should pay them the compensation Ive described. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman