DRN-3750814
The complaint
Ms H complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) avoided her car 
insurance policy (that is treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay her claim.  
What happened
Ms H took out her car insurance policy with Watford through a price comparison site. She 
made a claim on the policy following an accident. 
Watford said when Ms H took the policy out, she answered a question on the price 
comparison site about whether her car had any modifications incorrectly. Watford said had it 
known about the modifications, it wouldnt have offered cover. So Watford avoided Ms Hs 
policy, turned down her claim and kept the premium shed already paid
Ms H complained to us and our investigator upheld her complaint. Our investigator thought 
Ms H had made a misrepresentation  because her car had been modified. But she didnt 
think Watford had shown Ms Hs misrepresentation was whats known as a qualifying 
misrepresentation. So our investigator said Watford should settle Ms Hs claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of her policy.
Watford disagrees with our investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. It says 
its reasonable to assume Ms H was aware her car had been adapted from its manufactured 
state but hadnt disclosed this when she took out the insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms Hs complaint
The relevant law here is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). This says consumers must take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, as long as the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA calls a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. 
Watford says Ms H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
answered no to the question Has the car been modified in any way?, which she was 
asked when she took the policy out on the comparison site. This is because the report 
Watford got from the engineer who assessed the damage to Ms Hs car after the accident 
said it had various non-standard items fitted  its exhaust, air filter, windscreen decals and 
suspension springs. 
Watford said that, while modifications like the exhaust system and other mechanical 
modifications could be overlooked by a lay person, the decals and lowered suspension 
shouldve been obvious. Watford has sent us photos showing the decals on Ms Hs car, 
along with photos of cars of the same make and model as Ms Hs, which it says shows the 
suspension on her car was lower than the manufacturers standard.
Watford also says that, if Ms H had clicked on the information i icon next to the question 
about modifications, she wouldve been advised:
 If you or a previous owner has made a change from the manufacturers original 
specification, such as alloy wheels, air conditioning, bodywork, exhaust system, suspension, 
or tinted windows, add it here. If youre unsure if your cars been modified, check its previous 
history to find out.
And Watford says if Ms H had answered yes to the question about modifications, shed 
have been offered a drop-down menu from which to select the modifications that had been 
made to her car.
Ms H says she didnt know the car had been modified when she bought it. She says no one 
tells you and she just liked the car. Im satisfied, on balance, that Ms H didnt know her car 
had been modified. 
I also dont think it would be obvious to a reasonable consumer just looking at the car itself 
that the suspension was lower than the manufacturers standard. I think youd need to have 
had an unmodified model alongside Mrs Hs car for that to be clear  and Ive seen nothing 
to suggest that happened here. Nor do I think it would be obvious to a reasonable consumer 
that the decals were a modification. So, as well as being satisfied Ms H didnt know her car 
had been modified, I dont think the reasonable consumer wouldve been on notice of this 
either.
That means I dont think Ms H wouldve had any reason to think her answer to the question 
Has your car been modified in any way? might be wrong or need checking. In my view,   
Ms H didnt breach her duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to Watford in answering 
the question as she did. It follows that Watford has treated Ms H unfairly because the actions 
its taken arent in line with CIDRA, which also reflects our long-standing approach to cases 
like these. So Watford must reinstate Ms Hs policy, deal with her claim under the remaining 
terms of her policy and remove all records of the voidance from any internal and external 
databases.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms Hs complaint. I direct Watford Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to reinstate Ms Hs policy, deal with her claim in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of her policy and remove all records of the voidance from any internal and 
external databases.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Jane GallacherOmbudsman