DRN-1840923
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Lloyds Bank, refused to 
refund them for a transaction which they disputed. 
Mr and Mrs H believe that the company they dealt with abroad was acting unlawfully, and 
theyd like us to check out that company and prove that there was fraud.  
What happened
In April 2019, Mr and Mrs H were on holiday abroad. They said that they decided to buy a 
tablet, for which they paid in cash, for the equivalent of £35. The tablet was in the language 
of the country where they were staying, and the shop told them to return in a couple of days, 
when theyd change it into English for them.
Mr and Mrs H said that when they went back to the shop, the manager told them the tablet 
was part of a bigger package of equipment, which theyd need to pay for and have on 
approval for 60 days. They said they were told that theyd be contacted after 60 days and if 
they didnt want to keep the equipment after that, they could return it and have a refund. This 
didnt happen.
On 20 April, Mr and Mrs Hs Lloyds credit card was debited with £1,319.34. Mrs H contacted 
Lloyds and said they hadnt agreed to pay this. She said theyd paid £35 and had agreed to 
a monthly contract of £9.  
Lloyds issued a chargeback request. Chargebacks are a voluntary scheme to resolve 
settlement disputes between card issuers (here, Lloyds) and merchants. Lloyds issued the 
request on 30 April, and gave Mr and Mrs H a temporary refund. If the other side agrees, or 
doesnt reply within a set time, customers keep the refund. But in Mr and Mrs Hs case, 
Lloyds did receive a reply, which contested the chargeback, and provided evidence about 
the purchase.
The retailer abroad submitted a purchase contract, which listed four IT items, for a total of 
1,495 euros, which had been converted to the £1,319.34 debited to Mr and Mrs Hs account. 
The purchase contract had two signatures which the retailer said were Mrs Hs signature. 
The document also said that the amount had been paid by card. Lloyds also received 
information which showed that the transaction had been authorised by the genuine cards 
chip and PIN.
So Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs H saying that that it had reviewed the information from the 
seller, and had concluded it had no further rights of recourse against the seller. Lloyds re-
debited the £1,319.34.
Mr and Mrs H complained. In its final response, Lloyds said that the retailer had provided 
sufficient evidence that the transaction was genuine. And it had been processed by chip and 
PIN.Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied and complained to this service. Mrs H said she hadnt signed 
the purchase contract, which shed never seen before. She said she assumed it had been 
copied from elsewhere and superimposed on the document. She said she hadnt done a 
chip and PIN transaction for 1,495 euros. Mrs H said she had agreed to pay £9 a month. Mr 
and Mrs H said the retailer had changed the date to collect the tablet after it had been 
changed to English. Theyd had the equipment handed to them in a carrier bag as they were 
leaving to catch the airport bus at the hotel, so their time had been short. Mr and Mrs H also 
said the company was supposedly moving to another place the next day. They said it was all 
very suspicious and needed looking into.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. He asked Mrs H if she had 
anything to show that shed be paying £9 a month, and she hadnt. Mrs H said she had 
received all the goods on the purchase contract, but she said that different people seemed to 
have written the items on the contract, and the two signatures on the document were slightly 
different from each other.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the retailer had provided Lloyds 
with the signed invoice to evidence that Mrs H had agreed and received the goods. And 
there was also evidence to show the purchase was made using chip and PIN. Although the 
two signatures were slightly different, the investigator pointed out its not unusual for an 
individuals signature to vary slightly.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They said they couldnt believe the outcome, and theyd really 
thought that once the problem was passed to us, wed have checked out the company and 
proved it was definitely fraud. They said they knew of someone whod had a similar problem 
in a different country, and theyd had a refund. Mr and Mrs H said they thought theyd try to 
contact the police abroad and asked if this service would do that on their behalf.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service was set up to consider complaints between financial businesses and 
consumers, and there are rules about what we can and cant consider. Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint is against Lloyds. So thats what I can look at  whether Lloyds acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way they dealt with Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.. Its not open to me to 
consider whether the retailer abroad acted honestly or fraudulently. Nor do I have the 
authority to contact the police abroad on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf, to ask them to investigate 
the retailer.
So what Ive done is to consider all the available evidence to decide whether Lloyds acted 
fairly and reasonably.
Chargebacks are decided on the card schemes rules. So, when we consider a complaint 
about a chargeback, were deciding the complaint about the card issuers actions, not on the 
merits of the dispute. 
Lloyds submitted the chargeback request for Mr and Mrs H promptly, and it gave them a 
temporary credit. It wrote again when it had the chargeback reply, and sent Mr and Mrs H a 
copy of the purchase contract which the retailer had supplied.
Ive looked at the evidence which was sent to Lloyds. The purchase contract shows the four 
IT items and a total of 1,495 euros. There are two signatures in Mrs Hs name. I recognise 
that Mrs H has argued that these differ slightly from each other, and that she didnt sign the document. Shes suggested that theyve been copied from elsewhere and superimposed on 
the document, though she hasnt suggested how, or where, the retailer might have obtained 
her signature.
Importantly, however, the evidence supplied to Lloyds also included the computerised record 
about the credit card transaction. This showed that the genuine card had been used, 
because the unique chip in it had been recorded. And the correct PIN had been entered. Mrs 
H hasnt suggested that her card had been lost or stolen. And although cards are sometimes 
cloned, cloning is a type of copying of a cards details. This could include things like the card 
number, expiry date and security number. But theres never been an instance of the chip on 
a card being successfully copied. So its clear that the genuine card was used, together with 
the correct PIN.
When Lloyds received this evidence, I consider it was fair and reasonable for the bank to 
take the decision it did  that the evidence the retailer had supplied was sufficient to 
evidence that the transaction was genuine.
Im not saying that Mr and Mrs H dont have any grounds for unhappiness with the retailer, 
because I cant know that. I cant know what was said to them at the shop, or what they 
thought they were authorising when the card and PIN were used. But thats not something 
which either Lloyds, or this service, can investigate or determine. Lloyds responsibilities 
dont extend to a full investigation of any retailer with whom a customer isnt happy. Ive 
carefully considered whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably when it raised the 
chargeback for Mr and Mrs H. I find that it did, so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21July 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman