DRN-3304044
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs L took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker. The 
policy provided cover between 8 June 2019 and 7 June 2020.  Mr and Mrs L declared their 
pre-existing medical conditions to ERGO, which it agreed to cover. One of those conditions 
was Crohns Disease, which Mr L had suffered with since 2012.
On 11 March 2020, Mr and Mrs L booked a UK-based holiday. They were due to travel 
between 19 and 26 March 2020. However, Mr L began to suffer a flare-up of symptoms of 
Crohns Disease and didnt feel well enough to undertake a long car journey. So Mr and Mrs 
L cancelled their booking and made a claim for the costs associated with the cancellation of 
their trip.
ERGO turned down the claim. It said that Mr L hadnt seen a doctor before deciding to 
cancel the holiday and so there wasnt enough evidence to show that itd been medically 
necessary for the trip to be cancelled.
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with ERGOs decision. They provided a letter from their GP 
which said that had Mr L consulted them with the relevant symptoms at the time, it wouldve 
been reasonable to consider him unfit to travel. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator recommended that Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. She felt that 
given the impact of Covid-19 on the NHS in March 2020, itd been reasonable for Mr L not to 
seek medical advice before cancelling the trip. She also noted Mr L had previously suffered 
from flare-ups of his condition and that he was aware that the GP couldnt provide any 
treatment. She accepted the policy terms required a medical certificate which stated that the 
cancellation of a trip was medically necessary. And she noted that the GP hadnt advised 
cancellation because they hadnt been consulted ahead of travel. She thought though that 
given the prevailing circumstances and the GPs letter, it would be fair for ERGO to accept 
and pay the claim, together with interest, based on the existing evidence.
ERGO disagreed. It said that as Mr and Mrs L had known theyd need to make an insurance 
claim, it wouldve been reasonable for them to have sought medical attention. And it said the 
policy terms made it clear that a medical certificate must be provided specifying the details of 
the illness preventing travel.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for ERGO to turn down Mr and Mrs Ls claim and Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ls claim and the available evidence, to decide whether ERGO treated 
them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs 
Ls contract with ERGO. The cancellation section of the policy provides cover if a 
policyholder has to cancel their trip because of a policyholders unforeseen illness. But this 
section of the policy also sets out Special Conditions which apply to cancellation claims. 
One of these says:
You must obtain a Medical Certificate specifying the unforeseen illness or injury from the 
doctor in attendance to confirm the necessity to cancel your trip.
Its common ground that Mr L didnt see or speak to a doctor before deciding to cancel the 
trip as a result of his symptoms. Indeed, on a medical certificate completed by the GP, they 
stated that they hadnt advised Mr L to cancel the trip because they hadnt been consulted. 
So I appreciate that theres no contemporaneous medical evidence which shows that Mr L 
wasnt fit to travel or that thered been a doctor in attendance. And in some cases, I may 
find that its reasonable for an insurer to decline a claim in the absence of medical evidence 
demonstrating the medical necessity to cancel a holiday.
But I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel their application 
produces an unfair result. And thats the case here for reasons Ill go on to explore.
First, I need to bear in mind the timing of Mr Ls Crohns Disease flare-up. On 11 March 
2020, Covid-19 had been declared a pandemic. And on 16 March 2020, the day before the 
trip was cancelled, the UK Prime Minister gave a statement. He stated that people should 
only use the NHS when they really needed to. Appointments were being moved online or 
being held over the phone and cases of Covid-19 were rising. Against this background, I can 
entirely understand why Mr L, who was seemingly well aware of how a flare-up would 
manifest and that there was little treatment that could be given for the symptoms, decided 
against trying to consult his GP. Its also clear too that given the nature of Mr Ls symptoms, 
a long car journey was likely to have been quite challenging.
And while the GP wasnt consulted ahead of cancellation, they did provide a letter in support 
of Mr and Mrs Ls claim. They stated that:
If Mr L had consulted (him) at the time with symptoms..., it would have been reasonable to 
consider him unfit for travel on a long car journey and cancel his holiday.
On this basis then, it seems to me that Mr Ls GP wouldve considered him unfit to travel 
given the nature of the symptoms he was suffering. And in my view, the evidence suggests 
that if Mr L had spoken to the GP ahead of cancelling the trip, its more likely than not that 
the GP wouldve thought cancellation was medically necessary. Against this background, I 
think Mr L has provided enough medical evidence to prove his claim. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L feel that ERGO should cover the costs of obtaining the 
medical evidence. However, the policy includes the following term:
All information, evidence, details of household insurance and Medical Certificates as 
required by us must be sent at your own expense.As such, I think the policy terms make it clear that a policyholder is responsible for any 
expenses they incur in providing claims evidence. And so I dont think I could fairly direct 
ERGO to meet the costs Mr and Mrs L paid to obtain medical evidence from their GP.
In these circumstances and on the facts of this case, I currently dont think that ERGO acted 
fairly when it turned down a claim for a flare-up of a condition it had already agreed to cover. 
So I find that the fair and reasonable outcome is for ERGO to now accept and settle this 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to accept and settle Mr and Mrs Ls claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It must also add interest to the settlement 
at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
If ERGO considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
any interest paid, it should tell Mr and Mrs L how much its taken off. If requested, ERGO 
should also give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing the amount deducted, so they can 
reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman