DRN-3764643
The complaint
Mr T complains that PRA Group (UK) Limited has harassed him in relation to a debt he
doesnt owe.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In November 2021 PRA sent Mr T a Notice of Assignment that said it had acquired an 
account from a credit card provider Ill call B. The letter gave details of the new 
arrangements. B also sent a Notice of Assignment that confirmed the changes.
As part of the transfer process, B sent information to PRA about the account. The 
information included copies of the original account terms but not the credit agreement. B 
also sent PRA a copy of the account history for the credit card. The transaction history 
shows Mr T was making payments of £10 a month to the account balance whilst it 
remained with B.
PRA called Mr T and also wrote to him asking for repayment. Mr T complained and also 
approached B for a copy of his original credit agreement. B later responded and confirmed 
no credit agreement was available which meant it wouldnt be possible to enforce the debt 
in court. PRA sent a final response in May 2022 but didnt agree it had harassed Mr T or 
acted unfairly. PRA confirmed the debt wasnt enforceable and, due to its age, doesnt 
show on Mr Ts credit file. But PRA said it could still ask Mr T to make repayments.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ts complaint but didnt think PRA had acted 
unfairly by contacting him about the debt. But the investigator thought PRA shouldve done 
more to help Mr T after he raised concerns contact mayve been part of a scam and asked 
it to pay £50. Both PRA and Mr T asked to appeal the investigators view. PRA said it didnt 
agree there were reasonable grounds to award compensation. Mr T responded in detail to 
say both PRA and B had failed to supply documents required under the rules. Mr T also 
explained he remains of the view that PRA had harassed and treated him unfairly. As 
neither party accepted the investigators view, Mr Ts complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has made a number of points when bringing their complaint. Ive considered and read 
everything that all parties have said and sent to us. If I havent directly mentioned 
something thats happened or responded to each point raised it isnt because I havent 
considered it. I have. In line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be 
focusing on the key issues of this complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable. An 
approach our rules allow me to take. Id like to assure all parties that no discourtesy is 
intended by this approach.
Im going to start by looking at whether PRA has acted fairly by contacting Mr T about the 
debt in question and whether it has a legitimate reason to do so. I understand Mr T didnt 
have a credit card with PRA. But the information provided shows Mr T did have a credit 
card with B going back a number of years. I understand B has been unable to source the 
original credit agreement. And both B and PRA have confirmed that means the debt cant 
be enforced in court. But we consider complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. So Ill take 
all the available information into account when deciding whether a business has acted fairly 
or made mistakes.
Here, Im satisfied the information provided shows Mr T did have a credit card with B. The 
transaction history shows original spending along with the closure and default in 2009. And 
Mr T went on to make £10 monthly payments towards the debt for a number of years.
Further, B wrote to Mr T in November 2021 to confirm it had sold his account to PRA which 
would be taking over management. Lenders are allowed to transfer accounts to new 
owners, so whilst I understand Mr T didnt borrow from PRA originally, it was still able to 
acquire a debt in his name. And whilst B and PRA havent been able to provide the original 
credit agreement, Im satisfied theres enough information on file to show the debt it 
acquired has an outstanding balance. So Im satisfied PRA has a legitimate reason to 
contact Mr T.
Mr T has told us he feels harassed by PRA. Ive listened to all the available calls and 
looked at the contact Mr Ts received. I dont doubt how distressing Mr T has found this 
situation. But I havent found an unreasonable level of contact from PRA. As Ive said 
above, Im satisfied PRA has a legitimate reason to contact Mr T about the debt. We 
consider complaints on an individual basis. Ive considered everything weve been sent, but 
I havent found that the level or nature of contact from PRA amounts to harassment or that 
its treated Mr T unfairly.
The investigator asked PRA to pay Mr T £50 due to the way a call was handled. Ive 
listened to the call. Whilst I heard Mr T was unhappy with how the call was handled and 
questions asked, I havent found grounds to award compensation. The call handler advised 
they were calling about an account with B and asked Mr T to answer some security 
questions. The call hit an impasse at that point, but the call handler gave PRAs contact 
details to Mr T.
I appreciate Mr T wanted the call handler to write to him, but they advised it wasnt 
possible as previous letters hadnt been responded to. The call ended without agreement 
between the parties, but I didnt find the call handler to be rude or unprofessional. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr T but I havent found grounds to tell PRA to compensate him for the way 
his call was handled.
As Im satisfied PRA has dealt with Mr Ts complaint fairly I dont intend to tell it to take 
further action.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional information or points they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Neither party provided new points or information 
for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been provided, I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I still think PRA dealt with Mr Ts complaint fairly, for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman