DRN-1336866
Complaint
Mr C complains that BUPA Insurance Limited has turned down his sons claim for NHS cash 
benefit under a group private medical insurance policy. 
Background
Mr Cs son is a member of a private medical insurance policy. The policy includes NHS cash 
benefit, which means that £200 will be paid for each night a member receives NHS in-patient 
treatment, so long as the treatment would have been eligible privately.
Earlier this year, Mr Cs son was admitted to an NHS hospital at 12.11am (though I 
understand he was waiting in the hospital to be admitted for some time before this). He 
remained there for the night and the following day. Mr C made a claim on his sons behalf for 
NHS benefit, however BUPA turned it down because Mr Cs son hadnt been admitted to 
hospital before midnight. Unhappy with this, Mr C has brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He noted that the policy didnt 
define what was meant by night. Given that Mr Cs son had been admitted shortly after 
midnight and had remained in hospital for quite some time, he thought it would be fair for 
BUPA to pay the NHS cash benefit on this occasion. 
BUPA didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, so the matter has been passed 
to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy says:
We pay NHS cash benefit for each night you receive in-patient treatment provided to you 
free under your NHS. We only pay NHS cash benefit if your treatment would otherwise have 
been covered for private in-patient treatment under your benefits.
The policy doesnt say whats meant by each night, but BUPA says its internal guidance 
defines this as being admitted before midnight and discharged after midnight. It also says Mr 
Cs sons admission would be considered by the NHS to be a day admission. 
I appreciate BUPA has its own internal guidance on this. However, Im minded to agree with 
our investigator that since the policy doesnt define whats meant by night, and given how 
close to midnight Mr Cs son was admitted, I think this claim should be accepted on a fair 
and reasonable basis. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA Insurance Limited to pay the 
claim for NHS cash benefit. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman