DRN-2677195
The complaint
Mr B and Ms Z complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt give them the 
opportunity to consider re-mortgaging with other lenders when they wanted to change to a 
new fixed rate product on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr B and Ms Z originally took a mortgage for approximately £161,000 with Halifax, via an 
independent financial advisor, in 2017. That mortgage had a fixed rate until 31 March 2020, 
a term of 23 years and was set up on a capital repayment basis.
Mr B and Ms Z contacted Halifax on 4 March 2020 to enquire about a new product and on   
5 March 2020 made an application for a five-year fixed rate. The mortgage offer confirms the 
monthly repayment due during the fixed rate period and what it would be after the fixed rate 
period based on the current standard homeowner variable rate. It also confirmed that early 
redemption charges applied during the period of the fixed rate and outlined how much theyd 
be  as a percentage of the amount redeemed. Mr B and Ms Z accepted the offer and went 
on to the new five-year fixed rate.
In October 2020, Mr B and Ms Z complained to Halifax. They said they were pushed to apply 
for the new fixed rate to avoid going on to the standard variable rate and they had no 
opportunity to search for rates with different lenders.
Halifax gave Mr B and Ms Z its final response to their complaint in a letter dated                  
16 October 2020. It said its advisor explained that the disadvantage of a fixed rate was that if 
interest rates happen to go down, theyd not be able to take advantage of that. And when 
asked his opinion on what rates were likely to do the advisor gave factual information rather 
than offering an opinion. Halifax said its advisor told Mr B and Ms Z theyd need to apply 
before 24 March 2020 to ensure the new rate was in place by 1 April 2020. Halifax didnt 
agree that Mr B and Ms Z were pushed into accepting the new product. 
On receipt of Halifaxs final response letter, Mr B and Ms Z contacted it again saying they 
were struggling financially and thought Halifax should waive the early redemption charge or 
reduce their interest rate. Halifax again explained that it thought Mr B and Ms Z had enough 
time to consider what options may be available with other lenders and wouldnt reduce their 
interest rate or waive their early redemption charge.
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, Mr B and Ms Z asked us to consider their complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. He said he thought Halifaxs 
advisor was right to give factual information about what may happen with mortgage rates 
and he didnt think the advisor pressured Mr B and Ms Z into taking the new fixed rate 
product. He also said he thought Mr B and Ms Z had enough time to shop around for other 
rates or speak to a broker about that. He said he wouldnt expect Halifax to have referred   
Mr B and Ms Z elsewhere and it reviewed their circumstances and offered Mr B and Ms Z a 
suitable rate.
Mr B and Ms Z didnt agree. They said they were not informed they could remortgage with 
other lenders and think its unfair theyre now paying more than they could do elsewhere. 
They said they were new to mortgages and went back to Halifax at the end of their previous 
fixed rate because they didnt know otherwise.
As Mr B and Ms Z didnt agree with our investigators opinion, their complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B and Ms Z say Halifax didnt give them the opportunity to consider rates offered by other 
lenders when looking for a new fixed rate in March 2020. Theyve told us they didnt know 
they could remortgage with other lenders. So, to decide Mr B and Ms Zs complaint, Ive 
thought about whether Halifax dealt with them fairly at the time of their remortgage. In 
particular, Ive thought about whether Halifax pressured Mr B and Ms Z into taking the 
product they did and whether they should have told them to consider other lenders before 
proceeding.
Ive listened to call recordings provided by Halifax from 4 and 5 March 2020. On                   
4 March 2020, Mr B and Ms Z called Halifax to ask about a new fixed rate. At the beginning 
of that call Mr B said they wanted to know what fixed rate Halifax would offer them as their 
current one was coming to an end that month  and theyd like to look at other options with 
other mortgage providers, so wanted to contact Halifax first. Halifax told them what rates 
were available and what early redemption charges applied to those rates.
On 5 March 2020, Mr B and Ms Z called Halifax to apply for the five-year fixed rate. Halifax 
conducted a mortgage interview including questions about whether Mr B and Ms Z were 
likely to repay the mortgage or move in the near future. Halifax again explained the early 
redemption charges applicable and under what circumstances they may become 
chargeable. Mr B and Ms Z said they understood and went on to apply for the five-year fixed 
rate product. 
Halifax sent Mr B and Ms Z a mortgage offer dated 20 March 2020 confirming all the details 
of the mortgage theyd applied for, including the early redemption charges and the interest 
rates applicable. Mr B and Ms Z accepted the offer and the new rate was applicable from 
April 2020. 
From the evidence Ive seen, I think Mr B and Ms Z initiated the application for the new rate 
 contacting Halifax on both 4 and 5 March 2020. Its clear to me that Mr B and Ms Z were 
aware of the possibility of moving to another lender because Mr B said he would look at 
other options with other mortgage providers during the call they made to Halifax on               
4 March 2020. I think Mr B and Ms Z had time to do so after finding out the rates Halifax had 
available and they werent compelled to call Halifax on 5 March 2020 to apply for a new 
product.
During the application call of 5 March 2020, I thought Halifax explained the product and the 
possible implications of the five-year fixed rate. I didnt hear that Halifax pressured              
Mr B and Ms Z to make or proceed with the application. And after the call they could have 
enquired elsewhere and cancelled their application with Halifax before the new rate became 
effective.Overall, I think Halifax dealt with Mr B and Ms Z fairly with regard to their new product 
enquiry and application. And I think they made Mr B and Ms Z aware of all relevant 
information relating to the early repayment charges and interest rates. Halifax wasnt obliged 
to recommend that Mr B and Ms Z seek independent financial advice or talk to other lenders. 
And, as Ive explained, I think Mr B and Ms Z were already aware they could do that.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr B and Ms Zs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman