DRN-2598160
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the poor service Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) provided when her 
central heating boiler failed, and she claimed under her Aviva home emergency insurance 
policy.  
What happened
Mrs A had for a number of years maintained a home emergency policy covering the central 
heating system in a flat she let to tenants. On 7 September 2019, the boiler stopped working, 
and on 13 September 2019, she notified Aviva and claimed under her policy. On 17 
September 2019, Aviva sent a surveyor to assess what work was required.
Mrs As policy provided:
If the boiler is deemed beyond economical repair and is 7 years or older, we will source,
replace and install a new boiler but you will be required to pay the installation costs. We will
provide for you, a quote for this work.
Avivas surveyor explained the process and quoted a price of £1,460.16 for the installation of 
the replacement boiler. Mrs A claims the surveyor explained this quote was the maximum 
thatd be charged, and was based on the fitting taking the whole day. If it was completed 
quicker than planned, or if any services didnt need doing, the price would go down to reflect 
this. Mrs As has a witness statement from one of her tenants at the address to support this.
Mrs A thought this was a lot to pay just for fitting a boiler. But she was confident not all the 
work the surveyor had quoted for would be required, and so the final price would be less. So 
she said she would accept the surveyors verbal quote. She didnt receive a written quote 
until 25 September 2019. In order to progress the work she had to accept this immediately 
and pay a deposit of £750.
An appointment to attend and replace the boiler was fixed for 30 September 2019, but the 
engineer didnt attend. Mrs A says another appointment was arranged for 4 October 2019, 
but Aviva has no record of this. The boiler was finally replaced on 17 October 2019.
Aviva said Mrs A had to pay the balance of the figure quoted - £710.16. Mrs A complained 
that as the work actually done was less than what had been quoted for, a lesser sum was 
due. Aviva said the quote was a fixed quote, and so the full amount was due. Mrs A 
complained about this.
She also complained about the delay in replacing the boiler between 13 September 2019 
when she reported the boiler failure to Aviva, and 17 October 2019 when the replacement 
was fitted. She said that during that time her tenants, with a young baby, were without 
heating and hot water. Aviva offered compensation of £20, which Mrs A refused.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. Although Aviva said the 
quotes it issued were fixed quotes, the investigator thought on the evidence he had seen, 
and the balance of probabilities, that the surveyor had, mistakenly, told Mrs A what she said 
he had.
Since this complaint was brought to us, Aviva had written off the balance it had claimed. So 
the amount Mrs A had paid for the installation was £750. He thought this was in line with her 
expectations based on what the surveyor told her. If this had been a fixed price quoted to her 
at the outset, he thought it likely she would have accepted it.  So he didnt think shed lost 
out financially because of the surveyors comments.
On the question of delay, the investigator didnt think Aviva was responsible for any unfair 
delay before 17 September 2019. Mrs A didnt receive a written quote until 25 September 
2019, and accepted this on the same day. He thought the quote could have been issued 
sooner.
An appointment booked for 30 September 2019 wasnt completed. Mrs A says an 
appointment for 4 October 2019 also failed, although Aviva says it has no record of this. Be 
that as it may, the boiler wasnt replaced until 17 October 2019. Until then the tenants were 
without heating and hot water, apart from an electric shower in the bathroom. 
The lease between Mrs A and her tenants contained the following obligation on Mrs A as 
landlord:
During the said term to keep in good and substantial repair and proper working condition 
the water, gas and central heating system (if any) and other mechanical and electrical 
equipment provided by the Landlord for the Tenants use including any burglar alarm system 
(if any) unless the same is in disrepair as a result of misuse thereof by the tenant. The 
landlord shall be liable to offer suitable monetary compensation to the tenant where essential 
repairs are not completed within two weeks of reporting a failure.
In the light of this provision, Mrs A had reduced the rent for one month from £850 to £550.  
She had also waived the annual rent review which was due in January 2020; based on 
current rent increases for domestic properties in the area Mrs A calculated this was worth 
£234.60 to the tenants over the coming year.
The investigator considered Aviva was responsible for delays between 17 September 2019 
and 17 October 2019. But for these delays Mrs A wouldnt have needed to compensate her 
tenants. So it was reasonable for Aviva to reimburse the financial compensation of £534.60 
Mrs A had allowed her tenants.
Aviva responded to say, in summary, that Mrs A had benefitted by not paying the full amount 
for the installation that she had agreed. It didnt accept her complaint or that she had 
grounds for paying less.
Also, it was Mrs As decision to give her tenants a rent reduction. The tenants hadnt 
pressured her by withholding rent, so there was no evidence that she would have suffered 
loss of rental income.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the evidence available, including the written witness statement of Mrs As tenant, I find 
that:Mrs A Aviva was told by Avivas surveyor that the price quoted was the maximum 
that would be charged and would be reduced if less work was needed;
Mrs A entered into the replacement contract in reliance on this statement; and
in the events that happened Mrs A was entitled to expect that the price would be 
reduced.
Although Aviva doesnt accept Mrs A was entitled to pay less, it has confirmed that it wont 
require her to pay more than the initial deposit of £750 she has already paid. Like the 
investigator, I think this is in line with her expectations when entering into the contract and so 
is a reasonable amount for her to pay for the installation.
Mrs A has supplied a copy of the relevant provision of her tenants lease. This makes it clear 
that in the events that happened she was liable to offer suitable monetary compensation to 
the tenants because of the time it took to fit the replacement boiler.
This was a legal liability. So I think she acted reasonably in taking the initiative in calculating 
the compensation and offering this to the tenants. I think the value of what she offered - 
£534.60 - was reasonable in the circumstances.
I agree with the investigator that four weeks of this delay from 17 September 2019 to 17 
October 2019 was the fault of Aviva, and but for this delay the obligation to pay 
compensation wouldnt have arisen. So I think its fair and reasonable that Aviva should pay 
the value of the compensation to Mrs A.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Aviva should pay Mrs A the value of the compensation she has 
allowed her tenants, namely £534.60.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs A 
the value of the compensation she has allowed her tenants, namely £534.60.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman