DRN-2856144
The complaint
Miss T complains that Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL) wont let her make 
a partial transfer from her ISA. 
What happened
Miss T wrote to FASL in August 2020 to ask about making the partial transfer. FASL wrote 
back, and told her the terms of her ISA didnt allow a partial transfer  shed have to transfer 
all of it, if she wanted to move to a new provider. 
Miss T feels this goes against the ISA regulations. She feels these say it should be her 
choice whether to make a full or partial transfer out of the ISA. FASL disagree, saying that 
government guidance says its for ISA managers to decide whether to provide partial 
transfers. They explained in response to Miss Ts complaint that they decided to stop 
allowing partial transfers, in part because there were high levels of errors in the process. 
Unresolved, the complaint came to us. Our investigator noted that FASLs terms and 
conditions said they wouldnt offer partial transfers. And he felt the options given to Miss T to 
manage her ISA gave her a reasonable amount of control over it. So he didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Miss T still feels the regulations say its her choice  not the ISA Managers  whether she 
makes a partial ISA transfer or not. The complaints now come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Miss T is convinced the ISA regulations support her view, my decision is 
that FASL are acting reasonably, even though they dont allow partial ISA transfers. 
As an ombudsman  not a regulator  my decision is about whether FASL have been fair 
and reasonable with Miss T, given all the circumstances of the case. But as Miss T made 
direct reference to regulations in her complaint, Ive taken a close look at them when making 
my decision. 
Miss Ts said regulation 21 in The Individual Savings Account Regulations 1998 is important. 
I agree this talks about ISA transfers. But I feel regulation four  General conditions for 
accounts and subscriptions to accounts  is key here. Specifically, parts (5) and (6)(f). 
Regulation four, part (5) says an ISA must be managed in accordance with both the 
regulations and under the terms agreed between the ISA manager and the investor. Both 
have a role to play in saying what can and cant be done. 
And then part (6)(f) says those agreed terms must allow such parts [of an ISA] as may be 
agreed between the account investor and the account manager to be transferred, in line 
with regulation 21. 
So while the instruction to make the transfer is given by the investor, there also needs to be 
agreement from the ISA manager about which parts are going to be transferred. I find its 
reasonable to interpret this as saying ISA managers can say theyll only agree to a full ISA 
transfer, as long as their terms and conditions allow for some sort of transfer to take place. 
Ive also looked at the governments guidance for ISA managers. An article online  titled 
Information you need from investors when they apply for an ISA  gives support to FASLs 
point of view. Towards the end of the guidance it talks about what ISA managers must 
include in their terms and conditions, covering similar ground to regulation four, but in more 
approachable language. 
Theres an either/ or option that touches on ISA transfers. Its headed:
either (where the manager allows partial transfers)
[]
or (where the manager does not allow partial transfers)
[]
So the government guidance on ISAs appears to explicitly cover the situation where 
managers dont allow partial transfers. A reasonable interpretation of that is its okay for an 
ISA manager to decide not to offer partial transfers. 
With these points in mind, I find its reasonable for FASL to feel they dont need to offer 
partial ISA transfers to their customers. And Ive seen that position is set out in their terms 
and conditions. 
As FASL noted in their complaint response, their terms have changed over the years. But I 
find the terms allow for that, as long as Miss T was given notice of the change. I can see 
FASL did that, sending updated terms to Miss T when they took away the option of partial 
transfers.
In response to our investigator, Miss T has talked about feeling FASL should have done 
more to bring the change that removed partial ISA transfers to her attention at the time. But I 
note that when the term changed, Miss T wasnt looking to make a partial transfer of her ISA. 
So even if FASL had done more to highlight the change to Miss T, it seems unlikely shed 
have acted much differently. And if she had, the choice available to Miss T would have been 
much the same as it is now  stay with FASL, or transfer her investment to a provider that 
does offer partial ISA transfers. 
FASL explained the position with partial ISA transfers to Miss T in 2020, when it became 
relevant to her. They clearly set out her options, which appear to meet the standard needed 
by the regulations and guidance. So I find they gave Miss T a fair and reasonable level of 
service in this case.
I note FASL offered some compensation for a mistake they made in their response to 
Miss Ts complaint. We dont have jurisdiction to consider complaints about the activity of 
handling a complaint. So Ive not considered that mistake  or FASLs offer  in my decision. 
Itll be for Miss T to pursue that directly with FASL, if she wants to discuss the offer.
My final decisionI dont uphold Miss Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman