DRN-1396097
 
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the compensation offered by The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) after 
things went wrong when they dealt with his payment protection insurance (PPI) claims.
What happened
Mr L instructed TCG to pursue PPI claims in respect of Lender R. On 13 June 2019 Lender 
R wrote to Mr L with details of an offer for one loan account.
On 1 July TCG told Mr L that hed be receiving compensation for mis-sold PPI on five loan 
accounts for around £23,500. TCG sent Mr L success fee invoices, and chased payment by 
text messages and phone calls. Mr L told TCG that he hadnt received any acceptance forms 
to confirm his agreement of the offers. TCG chased this with Lender R. Lender R told TCG 
that the reference and account number it had provided in relation to an enquiry for four 
accounts didnt match the records it held for Mr L. Lender R confirmed that Mr Ls complaint 
about loan account ending 5959 had been upheld, and itd paid Mr L £205.50 on 12 July.
On 12 August TCG found that four of the accounts that it was chasing Mr L for its success 
fee for, didnt belong to Mr L. TCG told Mr L what had happened, and that he wouldnt be 
receiving compensation for the four accounts that didnt belong to him.  
Mr L complained to TCG about the information hed been given about the compensation hed 
receive, and the number of chasers hed had to make when asking it to send him the 
acceptance forms. 
TCG acknowledged that it made errors, and it shouldnt have told Mr L that hed be getting 
compensation for five accounts, and sent invoices chasing for this. TCG agreed to pay Mr L 
£300 in recognition of what had happened, and also agreed to waive its success fee of 
£13.55 for the one successful claim. 
Mr L remained unhappy with the response from TCG, and referred his complaint to the 
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service) for us to investigate. 
The investigator found that TCGs offer of compensation for what had happened was fair, 
and didnt recommend anymore compensation. Mr L disagreed with the findings saying he 
doesnt agree that the investigator thought £23,500 to £300 is fair, and that TCG allowed 
him to pass security checks during calls without the refund amount issue being discovered 
until weeks later. As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls complaint largely relates to the information given to him by TCG in relation to the 
claim against Lender R. Its not disputed that TCG made errors on this case. These errors include incorrectly informing Mr R that hed receive a substantial amount of compensation for 
loan accounts that didnt belong to him, and chasing for its invoice to be paid on these 
accounts. Mr L has also commented on the number of calls he had with TCG where he 
passed security without it realising the amount of compensation agreed by Lender R. 
TCG has accepted responsibility for its handling of Mr Ls claim. The dispute now relates to 
the award of compensation it should pay for what went wrong. 
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr L. Having reviewed the case, I agree 
with the investigators outcome for broadly the same reasons. So I wont be recommending 
further compensation. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr L but 
I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.   
I agree that TCG shouldve correctly recorded information concerning Mr Ls account, to 
ensure that accurate updates were given about any offers made. Theres no dispute that 
TCG made an error in failing to do this, and that this went on for some time before Mr L was 
told about TCGs error. 
Mr L says the compensation amount should reflect the trouble and upset hes experienced 
by now not being able to follow through with the plans hed made for the substantial PPI 
refund he was expecting. TCG made an error, and I think its fair that they pay compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused. But I think any compensation amount should be in 
reflection of the trouble and upset experienced because of what went wrong, and the impact 
on Mr L. I dont think this reasonably includes compensation for the opportunities Mr L was 
hoping for. 
In reaching this view, Ive taken into account that the complaint is not about the amount paid 
by Lender R, as this is correct.  The accounts didnt belong to Mr L so he was never entitled 
to this compensation. This complaint is about the incorrect information given to Mr L by TCG 
about what Mr L would receive, and subsequent chasers for Mr L to pay invoices that he 
really shouldnt have received in the first place. 
TCG have agreed to pay £300 and waive their invoice for the one successful claim in 
recognition of what went wrong. I think this amount is broadly in line with the compensation 
wed recommend for the trouble and upset caused to Mr L because of TCGs errors on the 
claim. This reflects the upset and shock caused because TCG failed to correctly explain the 
compensation that Mr L would be getting, and the incorrect invoice chasers made to Mr L for 
loan accounts that didnt belong to him. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because the offer The Claims Guys Limited 
has made to Mr L is fair and reasonable. I leave it to Mr L to decide whether to accept this 
offer by the date specified. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman