DRN-2974481
The complaint
Mr M and Mr M complain that BUPA Insurance Limited has turned down a claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M, Mr M and their families had planned a multi-stage trip and they travelled abroad in 
January 2020. As part of their trip, they were due to fly to from a country Ill call S to a 
country Ill call A. They planned to travel via two cities in A and then fly onto another country.
However, A began to suffer large-scale bushfires during January 2020, with one of the states 
Mr M, Mr M and their party were planning to travel to being particularly affected. Due to local 
government warnings about very poor air quality as a result of the bushfires, Mr M and Mr M 
decided to rearrange their trip and fly via another country. So they didnt travel to A as 
planned. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs associated with 
amending their trip.
BUPA turned down the claim. It said the policy covered amendment claims which happened 
as a result of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advising against all but essential 
travel to a destination. But in this case, the FCO hadnt advised UK nationals against 
travelling to A. So it concluded the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Mr M and Mr M were unhappy with BUPAs decision and so they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr M and Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
there was any evidence that the FCO had advised against all but essential travel to A. And 
so she felt it was fair for BUPA to decide that the claim wasnt covered.
Mr M and Mr M disagreed. In summary, they said the evidence they had was that it wasnt 
safe to travel to A. They also said that theyd tried to call BUPA while they were away to ask 
for help, but hadnt had any positive responses, so theyd needed to make their own 
decision. Relatives who lived in A had advised them that theyd only be able to stay in their 
hotel and that attractions etc. were all out of bounds. Theyd been concerned that if they had 
travelled to A, BUPA wouldnt have covered their costs if theyd become ill etc. They didnt 
think the investigator had reviewed the complaint impartially.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and Mr M, I think it was fair for BUPA to 
turn down their claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of the policy and the circumstances of Mr M and Mr Ms claim to decide whether 
BUPA handled it fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr M and Mr 
Ms contract with BUPA. As Mr M and Mr M altered their trip, I think it was appropriate for 
BUPA to consider the claim under the cancelling, amending or cutting short your trip section 
of the policy. This says:
We will reimburse you if you suffer a financial loss for the unused portion of your booked 
and paid travel and accommodation costs, either in full or on a pro-rata basis, if:
you amend your tripduring the insurance period due to any of the following reasons;
Accidental bodily injury, illness or death: of you and or the person with whom you are 
going to stay with during the trip.
Life threatening accidental bodily injury, illness or death: of a close relative
and/or close business colleague and/or your travelling companion or their close 
relative
Quarantine or court cases: you or your travelling companion are placed in 
quarantine, summoned for compulsory jury service or called as a witness in a court of 
law under subpoena.
Hijack: you or your travelling companion are hijacked.
Unemployment: you or your travelling companion are made redundant when you 
have had two years of continuous employment and is notified to you after you 
purchased the policy or booked your trip, whichever is the later.
Fire, storm, flood or burglary: you or your travelling companion, are required following 
serious fire, storm or flood damage at your or their home or place of business, or are 
required by the police following burglary at your or their home, or place of business 
where the loss or damage is greater than £1,500.
Strike or industrial action, adverse weather conditions or the mechanical breakdown 
of your transport: where your departure is delayed from your country of residence for 
more than 12 hours due to one of these reasons.
Armed forces or emergency services: As a member of the British armed forces or 
emergency services, you or your travelling companion's authorised leave is cancelled 
clue to an unexpected emergency.
Stolen passport or visa: your or your companion's passport or visa is stolen within 
five days of your trip departure date and there is riot enough time for you to get an 
emergency replacement.
FCO travel advice: after the time you purchased your policy or booked your trip, 
whichever is the later, the FCO advises against all, or all but essential travel to your 
intended destination.
Having closely considered the listed, insured events BUPA has chosen to cover under this 
section of the policy, I think the only potentially relevant term relates to the FCO advising 
against all but essential travel to A. In my view, it was reasonable for BUPA to decide that 
the claim didnt fall within the scope of any of the other events Ive set out above.
So Ive turned to think about whether it was fair for BUPA to conclude that there was no FCO 
advice in place against travelling to A when Mr M, Mr M and their party decided to amend 
their trip. I can see from the evidence that Mr M and Mr M have provided from As authorities 
that there were severe concerns about the impact of the bushfires on air quality and that 
people were being advised to avoid being outside in the air and dust. Taken together with the discussions Mr M and Mr M were having with relatives in lived in A, I can entirely 
understand why they felt it would be safer to reroute their flight.
But like the investigator, Ive also considered what the FCOs position on travel to A was at 
the relevant time. The guidance at this point was:
(A) continues to battle serious bushfires across multiple regions. Authorities in some regions 
have declared a State of Emergency and ordered road closures and evacuations. Poor air 
quality can occur some distance from the sites of the fires and provoke respiratory 
conditions. If youre in or near an affected area or planning any travel, stay safe, monitor TV 
news, radio and social media channels for updates, and follow the instructions and advice of 
local authorities. For more information, including links to local authorities fire advice, see 
Bushfires.
So while it seems the FCO was advising some caution for travellers, there was no advice 
against all but essential travel to A. Ive also noted that while the evidence Mr M and Mr M 
provided refers to very poor air quality, it doesnt refer to either of the cities they were due to 
travel to being subject to travel bans. So like the investigator, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for BUPA to conclude that the claim wasnt covered by the scope of the policy 
terms.
I appreciate that Mr M and Mr M feel strongly that they didnt receive support from BUPA. 
Ive thought about this. As the costs werent covered, Id have expected BUPA to point this 
out to Mr M and Mr M, so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not to 
amend their trip and incur the costs associated with doing so. It isnt clear what discussions 
took place here, as Mr M and Mr M have told us both that during a call at the time, BUPA 
had told them theyd be able to claim on the policy and that others had done so. But they 
later said that they hadnt had a positive response when theyd called at the relevant time. In 
any event though, given the weight Mr M, Mr M and their party seem to have placed on the 
air quality reports provided by As government and their discussions with relatives, I think its 
more likely that theyd have chosen to rearrange their trip regardless of any information 
BUPA may have given them. So I dont think the outcome wouldve been any different even 
if BUPA had given more support.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr M and Mr M, as I appreciate theyre out of pocket, I think 
it was fair for BUPA to turn down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman