DRN-4294650
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has
handled a claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr and Mrs K reported a leak in their property. RSA inspected it and
declined the claim as it thought it related to poor maintenance of the flat roof. Mr and Mrs K
reported a similar claim in December 2020 which was also declined for similar reasons and
then again in April 2021. In the latest claim Mr and Mrs K requested for a trace and access
to be completed as they thought the leak was coming from the bathroom. RSA reviewed the
claim and accepted it in April 2021 as it agreed the leak was coming from the bathroom.
While the claim was investigated Mr and Mrs K werent happy with how it was progressing
and complained. RSA issued a final response letter on 17 June 2021 where it partially
upheld the complaint and paid £100 compensation for poor claim handling. RSA then closed
the claim as it didnt hear back from Mr and Mrs K.
In February 2022, Mr and Mrs K contacted RSA and explained they hadnt responded
sooner due to unfortunate personal reasons. Due to the length of time it would have taken
RSA to start the repair works Mr and Mrs K had requested a cash in lieu settlement. RSA
had offered around £4,500 to cash settle the claim which Mr and Mrs K said wasnt enough.
Mr and Mrs K and RSA had lengthy discussions over the next few months about how much
RSA would pay to settle the claim. As an agreement couldnt be reached Mr and Mrs K
complained again. RSA issued its second final response on 7 September 2022. In this final
response it said after re-scoping of the work RSA was now offering £14,887.65 plus VAT. Mr
and Mrs K had said this wasnt enough as it didnt take into account the marble tiles and
expensive wallpaper they had. In the final response letter RSA said it would be willing to take
into account additional costs for those items if Mr and Mrs K provided the original purchase 
invoice or something similar. RSA also said it would provide alternative accommodation 
when the works were due to start and so hadnt included a figure for this but would consider
accommodation options Mr and Mrs K put forward. It also acknowledged there were delays
in handling the claim and awarded another £100 compensation. Unhappy with RSAs
response, Mr and Mrs K referred their complaint here in March 2023.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and said that we were only able to
consider the complaint about what happened between 17 June 2021 and 7 September 2022.
This was because Mr and Mrs K hadnt referred their complaint about what was addressed
in the first final response within 6 months of it being issued. When our Investigator looked
into Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about RSAs claim handling, she thought the £100
compensation was sufficient for the delays as not all of the delays were RSAs fault.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree, they said there had been six visits to scope the works needed
and didnt think RSAs offer was enough to repair the damage. After our Investigator issued
their assessment on the complaint Mr and Mrs K agreed to have the scope of works
reassessed again which RSA said it would do. However, Mr and Mrs K asked for an
Ombudsmans decision as they didnt think RSA had done enough to put things right.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 July 2023 where I said:
As our Investigator explained Im only able to consider what happened between 17 June
2021 and 7 September 2022. I can see in RSAs final response letter its cash in lieu offer
was around £15,000 plus VAT. Mr and Mrs K have said it will cost around £35,000 to settle
their claim, this includes alternative accommodation which isnt included in RSAs offer.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Ks policy say for buildings claims:
We will pay for the cost of work carried out in repairing or replacing the damaged parts of
your buildings and agreed fees and related costs. The amount we will pay where repairs are
carried out will not exceed the lesser of:
 the cost of the work had it been completed by our nominated 
contractor,
 the cost of the work based upon the most competitive estimate or 
tender from your nominated contractors.
RSA has said it would cost its contractors £14,887.65 plus VAT to repair the damage. This
figure doesnt include costs for alternative accommodation while the work is completed or for
increased costs due to Mr and Mrs K having marble tiles and expensive wallpaper.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mr and Mrs K have marble tiles and expensive
wallpaper. However, RSA has relied on a term which says:
We may ask for additional information, depending upon circumstances and value, which
may include the following:
 original purchase receipts, invoices, instruction booklets or 
photographs, bank or credit card statements, utility bills, pre-purchase 
surveys, or plans or deeds of your property,
I think its fair and reasonable for RSA to request information to help it validate claims and
ensure it pays the correct amount. However, Im not persuaded its applying this term fairly in
this case. I say this because its not disputed that Mr and Mrs K have marble tiles and
expensive wallpaper. And as RSA has assessed the claim its been able to see the items 
and therefore should be able to price for equivalent replacement items. Therefore, I intend to
direct RSA to revise its scope of works to include the marble tiles and expensive wallpaper
without the need for Mr and Mrs K to provide the original invoices.
Im aware that RSA has recently said it is reviewing the scope of works again, and as Im
directing them to include these items, once thats done if Mr and Mrs K dont think thats
enough to settle their claim then that would need to be raised as a new complaint.
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Ks comments that they have been forced to take a cash in
lieu settlement and therefore feel RSA should pay what their contractors have quoted. Im 
not persuaded that is a fair and reasonable outcome here. I say this because RSA said its
contractors could start work in around 60 days, but it could be longer. So, while I understand
this was too long for Mr and Mrs K, when I take into account how long this claim has been
ongoing for, Im not persuaded this is an unreasonable time frame for RSA to appoint its own
contractors. It follows Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for RSA to pay a cash in lieu
settlement equivalent to what it would cost to have RSAs contractors complete the work, in
line with the policy terms.In regard to the alternative accommodation, its agreed this would need to be provided while
the work is completed. RSA has said it will arrange this for when the work is due to start, its
also said it would consider reasonable quotes provided by Mr and Mrs K if they wish to
provide them. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable outcome and in line with the policy
terms.
The final point Ive considered is the length of time the claim has been taking. As mentioned
before, Im only considering the claim between 17 June 2021 and 7 September 2022. When
considering what has happened during this time. RSA has re-scoped the works and offered 
a cash in lieu settlement which doesnt accurately reflect the standard Mr and Mrs Ks home
was finished to, in particular the marble tiles and wallpaper. I think this would be distressing
and also inconvenient to have the scope of works re-done again because of this. Therefore,
to compensate them for this RSA should pay Mr and Mrs K a total of £500 for the
unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused by not including like for like items and
delaying the claim. This figure includes the £100 already offered in the final response dated 
7 September 2022.
RSA didnt provide any further comments to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs K provided 
a detailed response. In summary they said some of the delay in contacting RSA was down to 
issues with obtaining quotes from contractors during Covid and this delay would have been 
avoided if RSA had confirmed their contractors could commence work within 60 days. They 
also said if theyd know this issue would have dragged on for so long then they would have 
considered the 60 day time frame accordingly. Mr and Mrs K also said RSA has been 
messing them around for years with this claim and no consideration has been given for what 
happened outside of the timeframe this service is able to consider and said they dont think 
£500 compensation is enough. They also said RSAs offer of around £15,000 doesnt include 
alternative accommodation, the marble tiles and expensive wallpaper or removal and 
storage of belongings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ks response and I would like to assure them Ive considered 
what they said carefully, but Im not persuaded to depart from the findings in my provisional 
decision.
I say this because while I understand there were delays in Mr and Mrs K obtaining quotes, 
Im not persuaded RSA did anything wrong in relation to how long it said it would take to 
appoint its own contractors. I also understand Mr and Mrs Ks claim has been going on for a 
long time, but in this decision Im only able to consider what happened between the dates 
quoted above, for the reasons given. Im therefore not going to depart from the findings 
made in my provisional decision. 
In regard to the amount being offered to settle the claim, as explained in my provisional 
decision, as this is being re-assessed if Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the amount offered 
then that will need to be raised as a separate complaint. Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Ks 
comments about the amount of distress and inconvenience I intended to award in my 
provisional decision. Ive considered their comments and understood the frustration given 
how long this claim has been ongoing for. However, as I can only consider what happened 
between 17 June 2021 and 7 September 2022, for the reasons explained in my provisional 
decision Im satisfied £500 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused during that time. I therefore wont be telling RSA to pay any more.   My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to revise the amount
offered to settle Mr and Mrs Ks claim to include the marble tiles and expensive wallpaper,
without the need to provide the invoices from when they were purchased. It should also pay
Mr and Mrs K £500 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman