DRN-3638083
Complaint
Mr M complains that Westerby Trustee Services Limited (Westerby) failed to carry out 
adequate due diligence on an investment called Hedge Capital Investment Group Plc 
(HCI), which he made in a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) he held with Westerby. 
Background
Westerby is a SIPP provider and administrator. It was regulated by the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) at the time of the events complained about  now the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). It was  and still is  authorised to arrange (bring about) deals in 
investments; deal in investments as principal; establish, operate and wind up a personal 
pension scheme; and make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
The transaction 
Mr M signed an application for a Westerby SIPP on 26 September 2011. In the application 
he asked for the value of his two existing pensions, which at the time were recorded as 
having a total value of around £33,000, to be switched into the SIPP. 
In section 9 of the application form - INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL ADVICE - Mr M 
answered yes to the question Do you have an Independent Financial Advisor?. The 
details John Reid, Aisa Direct Ltd were given, and remuneration of 4% of the transfer value 
was requested to be paid to Aisa Direct (I understand 3% was paid, in the event). 
Aisa Direct is a UK based business which was  and still is  authorised and regulated by 
the FSA the FCA and has permission to give advice on and arrange personal pensions. 
A combined total of £31,737.43 from Mr Ms existing pensions was paid into the SIPP. Mr M 
then signed a HCI investment application form on 24 November 2011. He applied to invest 
£29,000.00 of the money in his SIPP. The application form was a single page document, 
with no section to record the details of any advisor or introducer. 
Mr M also signed Westerbys Unlisted Share Purchase Questionnaire, which asked him to 
make various declarations including:
I/We am/are aware that unlisted shares are a high-risk investment, that there is the 
possibility that I/we could lose all of my/our investment and I/we enter into this investment 
entirely at my/our own risk."
This is undated, but Westerby says it was signed before the investment in HCI was made. 
HCI was a newly formed company. Details about the company were set out in its Information 
Memorandum and Private Placing Memorandum. I have seen copies of both these 
documents. 
After the investment in HCI was made, HCI or a business linked to it paid Mr M £12,000. 
This money was not taken from Mr Ms SIPP and was not paid in accordance with pension 
scheme rules. This is what is commonly described as pensions liberation  a process 
which seeks to access pension money before the beneficiary of the pension is allowed to, 
and contravene the rules governing pension schemes. 
Mr Ms recollections, and the basis of his complaint
In his original submission to us Mr M said (I have quoted this below as it was written by Mr 
M):
I was recommended to do a pension transfer with an advice company. I do not have any 
complaint about the advice to transfer, nor this Company Aisa.
After the transfer I took advice from Mr John Davis at Hedge Capital, who directly liaised with 
Westerby Pensions, and co-ordinated an Investment into "HCl".
I was provided by Mr John Davis a copy of correspondence from Westerby Trustees (I think 
part of the group) sent to Hedge Capital confirming that they had completed due diligence 
and approved the investment.
I was asked to sign some kind of investment document prepared by Westerby Trustees that 
said I wanted to invest, and that they had completed due diligence. Westerby say they 
considered it an asset they could hold within their pension. Given what as happened with 
this investment since, Im shocked and saddened.
Westerby are now attempting to say that I must take this complaint up with the adviser that 
transferred the pension. However, the investment and the process of taking out the 
investment was nothing to do with this company and would be inaccurate for me to suggest 
otherwise.
We later asked Mr M to set out his recollections in more detail. I have quoted these below as 
they were written by Mr M:
10 years i had a lot of debts and as i looked at ways i could get myself straight i recall there 
was many companies offering cash free loans against your pension the advertizements was 
everywhere in the papers and even hearing the adds on the radio so i naturally thought this 
was legal so having looked at various companies i settled on Hedge Capital and the owner 
was a chap called Howard i dont recall is surname so having spoke to him a few times he 
basically told me what he could do was offer me a cash free loan i think it was £12;000 
pounds i would make a small payment each month until i reached retirement age and by that 
point i could settle the balance out of my pension or carry on for a number of years which i 
cant recall how many or the amount i know it was less than £40 per month howard had 
evrrything to due with the transfer he arranged everything from providing the sipp to all the 
paperwork needed to be done all arranged by howard
The loan was drawn up i didnt sign any legal documents or did the money come out of my 
pension i am sure westerby new about this as why would i transfer a good pension of final 
salary to a sipp but as they were due to earn quite a lot of money for the transfer i dont think 
they even asked to be honest i was promised from howard at hedge capital that my money 
would perform better in a sipp and my investment would not be invested into any high risks 
just proven low risks so as i needed the cash at that time and with howard assurance i 
proceeded I did get advive from john reid at Aisa he did say that he didnt think it would 
perform any better but i suppose with the carrot of the cash i needed at that time and with 
westerby being the gatekeeper i naturally thought my pension would br safe
I was advised that my pension would be placed into a low risk schrme i even said i do not 
want my pension placed into anything high risk as i would not have moved my pension i was also assured that each year i would be sent a statement of how my pension is performing so 
it all looked above board but soon as a year had passed and i received no statement then i 
started to feel something was wrong i remember chasing hedge capital and westerby and 
evrry time I called i was assured everything was ok and statements were delayed i forget 
how many phonrcslls i made chssing this to be fobbed of everytime i called
Once the transfer was complete i wasnt adviced anything or was told where my money 
would be invested i am sure westeby knew but i was never given this information otherwise i 
would of pulled the plug on this transfer i was told westerby role was to look after my sipp 
mske sure it was being invested in low risks as per my instruction i was explanied that 
westerby would look after it all and i had to do was nothing just relax and let them handle 
everything and thats what I did.
I understand Howard is Howard Davies of HCI. So Mr Ms reference to John Davis in his 
original submission may be a conflation of Howard Davies of HCI and John Reid of Aisa 
Direct. However, there is also reference on the file to a John Davies at HCI, so this is not 
clear. 
We have also been provided with copies of the two complaint letters Mr M sent to Westerby. 
These are dated 5 October 2015 and 26 November 2019. The 26 November 2019 includes 
the following: 
Today I wish to bring your attention a complaint on advice from pension advisor John Reid. 
This goes back to 2011 when I asked John Reid to advise me on a workplace pension 
transfer into a Sipp as at that time I needed the money and thought the advice John gave me 
would give me good returns on my pension which the transfer value was £31,000.00 which 
is a lot of money. As it was a long time ago all my memory recalls John saying that in the 
long term my pension would not return as much as where it was , I don't recall any advice 
telling me that the sipp could possibly lose all my money this was never advised. also the 
company Hedge Capital Limited was never regulated by the fca this information was never 
provided to me plus I was not explained where my sipp would be invested in as if I have had 
all this explained to me then I would of never moved my [existing] pensions. I do also feel 
that trusterby [Westerby] the sipp provider should of done more checks on hedge capital not 
just rely on advice from Aisa
Later in the 26 November 2019 letter Mr M refers to:
bringing court action against all companies more against Aisa for not giving me all the 
advice
We recently asked Mr M if he had made a complaint to Aisa Direct and to provide details, if 
he had. Initially he sent us copies of some emails he had sent to Asia Direct but not its 
replies.        Mr Ms response included a copy of an email he sent to Aisa Direct on 5 
December 2019, which includes the following (quoted as written by Mr M): 
When I did ask John [Reid, Aisa Directs advisor] for advice it was Howard [Davies, of HCI] 
who introduced me 
.. you [Aisa Direct] say that John advices me not to move my pension which again I dispute 
all John said if I move my pension it would not provide the returns like my [occupational]  
pension was providing me , he never said to me [Mr Ms first name] if you move your 
pension to a sipp you could potentially lose all your pension , do you think I would of moved 
my pension if I was told this important piece of information. Also John never made me aware 
of what my sipp would be invested or where it would be invested.I wasnt even consulted on that matter or asked for authorisation so again he seems to 
apportion blame on to me, when he was the finacial advisor and being paid for is sound 
advice. The only part I recall is yes I did say I wasnt concerned if the long term returns wasnt 
being as good as at that time I needed the money and as I was only 41 at that time surely 
John new what him & hedge was illegal as again you are trying to put my actions on why I 
lost my pension but if John had said to me all the above then my pension would still be were 
it's at like i said i am not blaming all this on to Aisa i do think Westerby should take on some 
of the blame as they are the sipp trustee and they had my date of birth you would of thought 
my age would be sending out red flags.
.I'll give you one final opportunity to come to a suitable settlement otherwise my next 
step is the pension authority & the ombudsmen as I have nothing to lose.
When we asked Mr M for the remainder of the correspondence he had exchanged with Aisa 
Direct he then told us he had made three complaints to Aisa Direct  in 2012, 2015 and 2019 
- and provided us with its responses to each. 
We also asked Mr M if he has been paid any amount by Aisa Direct to settle a complaint 
against it. Mr M did not initially answer that question. However, when we him asked again, 
he said he would speak to Aisa Direct and he then told us Aisa Direct had paid him an ex 
gratia amount of compensation in early 2020, but not the amount he had received. He also 
provided us with a copy of a letter dated 7 January 2020 he sent to Aisa Direct, which said: 
I withdraw my complaint in full now, and will not be making any further complaint or raising 
any other issue wjth regard to this matter at any time in the future.
Mr M told us this letter from me withdrawing my complaint that categorically is my reason for 
not disclosing this to the Ombudsman last time. 
Other evidence on the roles of the parties involved
We also have a copy of a note of a call Mr M made to Westerby on 8 July 2014, which 
records the following (I have copied this as it was written): 
[Mr M] called to ask fr an update on the Hedge Capital situation. He was concerned that his 
pension may be losty and did not kno what to do about it. I explained that the ombudsman 
[this is meant to refer to The Pensions Regulator] had appointed Dalraida as independent 
trustees who were looking at Hedge in an attempt to get monies back to the pension 
schemes. I excplained that I had e mailed my contact at Dalraida and was waiting for a 
response.
I asked whether [Mr M] had gone through an IFA, he confirmed he had and that it was John 
Reid. He explained that John had explained the risks of this investment but that he was 
desperate for money at that time. He took a loan from Hedge at the same time.
I have not seen any records of the advice given to Mr M by Aisa Direct or of any interactions 
between a John or Howard Davies at HCI and Mr M. 
Westerby and HCI
A FSA regulated firm, KMR Financial Management LLP (KMR) first introduced HCI as a 
potential investment to Westerby around July 2011. Westerby accepted HCI into its SIPP a 
short time later.
Westerby accepted around 20 SIPP applications relating to HCI between September 2011 and January 2012  all of which were introduced by Aisa Direct. In February 2012, Westerby 
says it requested sight of one of Aisa Directs suitability letters for a potential new client. 
Westerby says it became concerned because Aisa Directs written advice was for the client 
to not switch his pension but it learned that the client was told by Aisa Direct to ignore this 
and proceed with the switch. Because of this, Westerby says it ended its relationship with 
Aisa Direct and ceased to accept any new introductions from it.
HCI in administration
In March 2012, The Pensions Regulator took action relating to occupational pension 
schemes that had become involved with HCI.  Notices were issued by The Pensions 
Regulator (TPR) following this. These set out that there was evidence that:
Between October 2011 and March 2012 around 476 members of these occupational 
schemes had invested around £19m in HCI and that £6.5m had been paid back to 
pension scheme members as unauthorised loans with a further sum of £2.75m being 
used for investments in 58 plots of land for teak tree plantations in Brazil, agricultural 
land in Florida and shares in music production and mobile learning platform 
companies.
At least one occupational scheme had invested around £3 million by November 2011 
and that some of these funds had already been recycled as loans to pension 
scheme members.
One of the occupational schemes had taken counsels advice in November 2011. 
Counsel had warned the trustees that the HCI investments were contrary to 
occupational pension scheme legislation and that there was a risk that loans 
proposed by HCI were unauthorised payments.
There was a lack of clarity about the use and whereabouts of funds received by HCI.
HCI had been set up in a manner where those operating it could benefit if it did well, 
but would only distribute profits to investors at their discretion.
HCI went into administration a short time later. Mr M has been offered a return of some 
capital (he says 30p in the pound) by Dalradia, the trustees appointed by TPR, but it is not 
clear if that has been accepted/paid. 
What have Westerby said?
In its response to Mr Ms 2015 complaint (it did not respond to the 2019 complaint as it 
considered it to be a repeat of the 2015 complaint) Westerby said:
Westerby were at no stage made aware that Hedge Capital were offering loans to their 
investors. Had we been made aware that loans were being offered, effectively being an 
inducement for investment, we would not have permitted this investment as it contravenes 
HMRC rules. This was only discovered by us after the appointment of Dalriada who 
confirmed that Hedge had been offering and granting loans to investors. As these 
transactions were made without our prior knowledge and consent, Westerby Trustee cannot 
be held responsible for the ramifications therefrom.
Full due diligence was carried out and the investment was considered a permissible asset 
under SIPP rules. 
Your investment was in unlisted shares. Investing in unlisted shares is extremely high risk. Whether this was an acceptable risk for you was a matter between you and your financial 
advisor and not Westerby Trustee Services who do not provide investment advice. The 
enclosed FCA alert from January 2013 clearly identifies that advisers are fully responsible 
for the advice to their clients where their investments are held within a SIPP.
Our previous correspondence has urged you to seek guidance from your adviser who was 
responsible for your investment in Hedge.
The investigators view 
Our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld. He said, in summary: 
On the question of whether Westerby should have accepted Mr Ms application: 
Westerby could take some comfort from the fact that HCI was a UK based company 
and that UK based professionals (including a FCA authorised person) were said to 
be involved with it.
He accepted that SIPPs can be used to make investments in unlisted shares and that 
unlisted shares are permitted investments under HMRC rules. And they can be 
valued by specialist accountants if instructed to do so. 
But HCI is the type of investment over which SIPP operators ought to have carried 
out some independent due diligence. And, having considered the details of the 
information memoranda, he thought there were features of the HCI investment that 
ought to have given Westerby cause for concern.
HCI was an unregulated illiquid investment focused on raising £10 million solely from 
SIPPs (£5 million of which was to be raised within three months) for investment in a 
new start-up company which was itself to fund other start-up companies with no clear 
lending strategy apart from generic references to websites which might feed through 
proposals. This business model for a pension funded investment ought to have led 
Westerby, acting fairly and reasonably, to undertake independent due diligence.
The potential return for these pension investors was to be a 3% fixed coupon with 
50% of HCIs distributable profits each year, but the latter only at the discretion of the 
HCI directors. So, Westerby ought to have known that pension investors were being 
asked to make very high-risk investments, but for only a potentially modest return. 
The available information about what HCI might do to achieve this return was also 
very vague. 
In line with its obligations to treat Mr M fairly and to act in his best interests, Westerby 
ought to have queried how an esoteric high risk investment such as HCI would 
persuade SIPP investors to invest such a large amount of pension funds in HCI over 
such a short period of time unless the SIPP investors were being poorly advised 
and/or motivated by factors that HCI hadnt willingly disclosed  such as pension 
liberation.
There were reasonable enquiries Westerby could have made at some point before 
Mr Ms investment to ensure that the investment didnt involve unauthorised 
payments or pensions liberation. Westerby ought to have obtained further details 
from HCI about the investments that had been made and what investments were 
planned in the months ahead and the lending criteria that HCI were adopting.
Westerby ought also to have obtained further details about the role the professional parties said to be involved with HCI would play  i.e. the firm of accountants and 
solicitors who were listed in the information memoranda.
These enquiries would have enabled it to find out more about their proposed 
involvement in the loans, the lending criteria that had or would be used by HCI and 
how professional parties would safeguard against inappropriate loans. The 
information memoranda and reference letter from the firm of accountants had no 
details about this.
On the balance of probabilities, he thought that had Westerby acted with due care 
and diligence and made independent enquiries, it would have realised that  HCI 
either had already or clearly intended to depart from the general aims set out in its 
information memoranda and was very likely involved in unauthorised transactions, or 
it would have found that HCI was not forthcoming or was unclear with details about 
how the investment was being promoted to pension investors, the funds it had raised 
and how those funds were being used.
Both outcomes ought to have led Westerby to conclude that it would not be treating 
Mr M fairly and reasonably if it allowed the HCI investment into Mr Ms SIPP because 
of the knowledge or risk that HCI was not operating as it purported it would do and 
was involved in unauthorised payments/pension liberation.
As such, he thought it ought to have refused to accept the HCI investment in line with 
its regulatory obligations under Principles 2, 3 and 6 and COBS 2.1.1. In Westerbys 
failure to do so meant that it didnt treat Mr M fairly or reasonably and should now 
compensate him for his loss.
Westerby also ought reasonably to have had some concerns about Aisa Direct. It 
knew that Aisa Direct was not giving its clients advice about the underlying 
investment in HCI. Westerby ought to have had some concern about this. Westerby 
ought to have known that Aisa Direct was unlikely to be providing regulatory 
compliant advice to at least some of the customers that were being introduced to it 
for the purpose of holding the HCI investment. 
That said, he thought it was reasonable for Westerby to have still considered 
accepting Mr Ms application from Aisa Direct  albeit with heightened caution.
On the question of whether it was fair to ask Westerby to pay compensation to Mr M: 
He thought Mr M understood that he was making a high-risk investment with his 
pension.
He also accepted that Mr M is likely to have been keen to press ahead with the HCI 
investment in order to receive an immediate loan back. 
Had Westerby declined Mr Ms application he thought there are two likely possibilities 
 either Mr M wouldve decided to do nothing and left his pension where it was, or he 
wouldve gone to another SIPP operator to complete the transfer of the investment 
into a SIPP.
On balance, he thought both of these options would have brought about the same 
outcome  which is that Mr M would not have moved his pension to a SIPP and 
invested in HCI. The latter is because he did not believe another SIPP provider would 
have processed the transaction if it had carried out sufficient due diligence in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations.Westerbys regulatory obligations also meant it should not have proceeded to 
facilitate the investment even if Mr M had insisted.
On this basis, the investigator concluded it was fair to ask Westerby to pay compensation to 
Mr M. 
Westerbys response to the investigators view 
Westerby did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Mr Ms suggestion that he was happy with the transfer advice is surprising. His letter 
of complaint to Westerby in 2015 suggested that he also intended to make a 
complaint to Aisa Direct in respect of its advice. It would also question the statement 
that the investment and the process of taking out the investment was nothing to do 
with [Aisa Direct]. Aisa Direct facilitated the investment.
It also notes that while the investigator claims to have taken the Adams v Options 
court judgements into account, in practice he has disregarded them, essentially 
treating them as irrelevant. It considers this is a material error of law.
It would reiterate that the facts in the Options case are similar to those here, in that 
Mr M was motivated to make the investment in order to obtain funds, in his case to 
pay off considerable debt that he had accrued. The only material difference is that, 
unlike in Options, to its knowledge the SIPP was arranged by Aisa Direct, an 
authorised party. While the investigator states Mr M had in fact been advised by HCI, 
this was not disclosed to it at any time.
It considers that any decision on this complaint should be based on the guidance 
available from the Regulator in 2011, when it accepted Mr Ms SIPP and processed 
his investment. This would essentially be the 2009 Thematic Review. While this was 
not formal guidance, it recognises that the review highlighted the Regulators view of 
good practice at that time. 
It did give careful consideration to the quality of business that it accepted, and the 
investments that it permitted within its SIPPs. This led it to reject proposals by 
regulated firms to introduce large volumes of SIPPs to invest in a number of esoteric 
investments.
The fact that Aisa Direct was only advising on the transfers would not have been a 
reason to reject the business. 
It has provided us with a copy of a letter from Bennett Brooks & Co Limited, the 
accountants acting for HCI. This firm was (and still is) registered with the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. This letter stated The directors have 
been approached by a number of individuals who are looking to invest in [HCI] 
utilising funds held within SIPPs.
The statement that the directors had been approached by potential investors 
indicated that the potential clients would have some knowledge of investments. At no 
point was it disclosed that the investment was being marketed to retail clients. And, 
as it has noted, the directors of HCI included an FSA-authorised individual and a 
solicitor. It had a reasonable expectation that HCI would act with integrity and the 
directors would be aware of (and compliant with) the restrictions on promotions of 
higher-risk, non-mainstream investments.With this in mind, it would not have been seen as unreasonable for a potential 
investor to seek advice only on the transfers of their existing funds. Indeed, it would 
be reasonable for the directors of HCI to direct potential investors to seek financial 
advice on the potential transfers.
It also had a reasonable expectation that Aisa Direct would have complied with its 
own regulatory requirements in advising on the transfers. Even if Aisa Direct was not 
providing advice on the specific investments being proposed, it could reasonably 
have expected that it would take into account the likely suitability of the high-risk 
investments that the clients proposed to make. 
In contrast to Westerby, Aisa Direct, as the advising firm, would have been required 
to know its clients personal circumstances, and would have had a regulatory 
obligation to consider whether the requested investment was suitable, even in 
principle, before advising on the transfer. It is now clear that it was not doing so.
Importantly, while it is in principle possible to transfer funds on an insistent client 
basis, Aisa Direct ought to have considered whether facilitating a transfer it knew was 
unsuitable was treating customers fairly. Instead, it misled Westerby into believing 
that the transfers were proceeding on an advised basis, and received remuneration 
from the transfers that was in-line with such advice.
There was no reason for it to reject introductions from Aisa Direct. Had Aisa Direct 
been open with it from the outset that it was advising against the transfers it would 
not have accepted the business, as it would have created doubts regarding the likely 
suitability of the investment for the clients.
Aisa Directs introductions were made over a relatively short period of time, and 
related to a low volume of new SIPPs, which was not sufficient for it to detect a trend. 
By the time the last SIPP was introduced (in early January 2012) it had noted that the 
clients were unusually keen to proceed with the investment. This led it to query Aisa 
Directs processes. 
It is of course now aware that Aisa Direct was providing advice reports to clients 
stating that they should not transfer the funds, then calling the clients to tell them to 
proceed with the transfer and make the investment. It notified the FSA of its 
concerns, and it has provided us with a copy of the e-mail. 
Aisa Direct knowingly misled Westerby, and facilitated investments that it knew were 
unsuitable, and were being used to obtain loans, in clear breach of their 
responsibilities. It therefore considers that any redress should be paid by that firm, 
rather than Westerby. In essence, the investigators view is that Westerby should be 
held liable for Aisa Directs poor advice.
Mr Ms letter of complaint to Westerby dated 5th October 2015 stated that he would 
also be making a complaint to Aisa Direct. It can only surmise that he made such a 
complaint but elected to take no action following Aisa Directs response. It would be 
neither fair nor reasonable for the redress for the failings of another firm to fall on 
Westerby simply because Mr M took no action against Aisa Direct when he had the 
opportunity.
It is not a duty of SIPP provider to consider whether the returns are worth the level of
risk being taken; this is for the individual to decide, However it notes that HCIs business 
model included a potential listing and sale of the business, which would (if it occurred) result in returns to investors.
It understood HCI had been approached by potential investors; the clear implication 
being that the investors had become aware of HCI, considered it to be a viable 
business opportunity, and wished to make investments into the company.
The investigator is essentially comparing its due diligence with a forensic 
investigation undertaken by TPR, which has resources far beyond what can be 
expected of any pension provider. This is clearly unreasonable.
In late 2012 a number of investors had asked for information regarding their 
investments into HCI. This prompted a call from Westerby to HCI on 26th October 
2012. During the conversation HCI confirmed that very few investee companies had 
been identified, and as such most of the funds remained in cash.   Had it made the 
same enquiry at the time of Mr Ms investment (which was almost a year prior to this 
conversation) it is reasonable to expect that it would have received the same 
response. Furthermore, this would not have been unreasonable, given the short 
amount of time since the company had been established.
HCI was a new company, having only been incorporated on 23 August 2011. This 
meant that there was limited information available; though it was able to 
independently verify the directors details from Companies House. It was also able to 
verify the expected returns on the Preference Shares via Resolutions submitted to 
Companies House on 30 September 2011.
Regardless of the limited information available, it had no reason to doubt that the 
company was genuine.
The investigator says had it declined Mr Ms SIPP or the HCI investment, Mr M would 
have either have done nothing and left his pension where it was or have approached 
another SIPP operator, which would have rejected the investment. 
There is in fact a third possibility, which the investigator tacitly acknowledged with his 
statement Westerby may say that Im wrong in concluding that if it had refused the 
investment in HCI, Mr M could not have invested in HCI and that Mr M was driven by 
the prospect of getting a loan back from HCI and insistent on making the investment. 
So, he would have found a route by which to make the investment if Westerby had 
declined to assist.
The investigator concludes that this would not make any difference to his decision. It 
is difficult to see how this can be a fair or reasonable conclusion; if there was a route 
for Mr M to make the investment without its involvement, which would have resulted 
in him being left in the same position, then no action on its part would have prevented 
his losses.
As the investigator is aware, TPR investigated a number of occupational pension 
schemes that were essentially being used to direct money to companies connected 
to HCI, and were making loans to members using funds transferred from their 
existing pension schemes.
If it had refused to accept Mr Ms application, it is reasonable to expect that Mr M 
would have transferred his funds to one of these schemes instead.
This is not simply speculation; it is supported by evidence. It did not permit the final 
client introduced by Aisa Direct to invest into HCI. This client then requested a transfer-out from the SIPP to the one of the occupational schemes mentioned. 
It should be remembered that Mr M had built up considerable debt. Mr M has also 
confirmed that he was being advised by HCI, and this was not disclosed to it. If he 
had not been able to use a SIPP to obtain the loan then there is no reason to doubt 
that HCI would have directed him to one of the other schemes, given HCIs entire 
goal was to appropriate money from desperate investors.
My provisional findings 
I recently issued a provisional decision. I have copied my provisional findings below: 
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 are of particular relevance here, in my view. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I have taken account of both 
these judgments when making this decision on Mr Bs case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. So I have taken this rule 
into account too. 
But I also think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference 
to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in 
doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is 
a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams 
v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr 
Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise here that I accept Westerby was not under any obligation to advise 
Mr M on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. 
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
These reports provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and I 
am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Ms SIPP 
application, Westerby complied with its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to 
act with due skill, care and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs 
responsibly and effectively, to pay due regard to the interests of its customers, to treat them 
fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the rules 
and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Westerby could have done 
to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Taking account of the factual context of this case, it is my view that in order for Westerby to 
meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), it should have 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to consider whether to accept or reject particular 
applications for investments, with its regulatory obligations in mind.
What is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this complaint? 
My role here is not to provide a point by point response to everything which has been said, 
but to reach a view on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and to do that with 
my statutory duty  to resolve complaints with the minimum of formality  in mind. 
Having considered everything I agree with the investigators view in some respects  but not 
all. 
I think the question of whether it was fair and reasonable for Westerby to accept Mr Ms 
application is a finely balanced one in the particular circumstances of this case. 
In terms of the involvement of Aisa Direct, I agree that the evidence the investigator 
mentions about Westerby being aware Aisa Direct was not giving advice post-dates Mr Ms 
application. But I think Westerby could have made enquiries which would have led it to 
become aware Aisa Direct was not apparently advising on the underlying investment either 
before Mr Ms application was made or at the time of Mr Ms application. Westerby asked 
Aisa Direct to confirm it had given advice on applications made shortly after the date of Mr 
Ms application so it is not clear why it did not do this at the time of Mr Ms application. And, 
had it done so, it would have become aware Aisa Direct was not advising on the investment 
 only the transfer or switch to the SIPP from the existing scheme(s). 
Aisa Direct was UK based, FSA regulated, and had the regulatory permissions required to 
give advice on personal pensions and other investments. The fact every application related 
to HCI should have been viewed as anomalous, along with the fact (of which Westerby 
should reasonably have been aware) Aisa Direct was not apparently advising on the HCI 
investment. But it is also the case that Westerby would have received very few applications 
from Aisa Direct at the time of Mr Ms application (as noted above, Westerby received a total 
of 20 applications between September 2011 and January 2012, and Mr Ms application 
dates from September 2011 and was therefore amongst the first). 
Turning to the HCI investment, like the investigator, I think there were things Westerby could 
take comfort from. As it has noted the investment was a UK based one, and the parties 
involved included a FSA regulated business and a practicing solicitor. I have not seen any 
evidence to show Westerby ought to have had a basis to be concerned about either of these 
parties. There was also what was effectively a reference from an accountancy business 
about which, again, there is no evidence to show Westerby ought to have had a basis for any concerns. But I also think there were some features of the HCI investment which ought 
to have led Westerby to make some further enquiries. There was a lack of detail about how 
the money invested would be used (only general references to it funding new businesses) 
and it was not clear why pension investors in particular were being targeted, or how the large 
investment amounts sought would be obtained in a relatively short period of time. 
However, I cannot be sure what further enquiries from Westerby would have revealed at this 
time.  It is not certain that these further enquiries ought to have led Westerby, acting fairly 
and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations, to have concluded at the time of Mr Ms 
application it simply should not allow investment in HCI in any circumstances.
In short, there is no clear evidence of an obvious single red flag which was known to 
Westerby or would have been apparent to it at the time of Mr Ms application had it carried 
out sufficient independent due diligence on HCI and Aisa Direct. But I think there were a 
number of points of concern which were known, may have been known, or ought to have 
been known  and Westerby should have considered these cumulatively, if it were acting 
fairly and reasonably to meet is regulatory obligations. 
However, in the particular circumstances of this case, it would not be fair to say Westerby 
should compensate Mr M for the losses he has suffered, even if I were to take the view it 
was not fair and reasonable for it to accept Mr Ms application. I say this because:
I am not persuaded Mr M placed any significant weight on Westerbys involvement at 
the time of the application, and the evidence shows he was very keen to proceed as 
he needed money. 
The reasons Mr M has given for proceeding appear to largely relate to advice given 
to him by Aisa Direct or HCI. 
Ive seen no evidence to show Westerby was aware Mr M was taking advice from 
HCI  an unauthorised business. 
In the particular circumstances of this case I am satisfied it is likely there was another 
route open to Mr M (other than through a SIPP), if he wanted to proceed. 
I therefore think it unlikely a refusal of the SIPP application by Westerby would have 
brought a stop to things  Mr M would still ultimately have participated in the 
liberation scheme. 
I note Mr M has latterly attached significant weight to Westerbys role. But Im not persuaded 
he viewed its role as being significant at the time. Instead I think he was led by what was 
said to him by HCI and/or Aisa Direct. 
Mr M says he relied on advice (from either Aisa Direct or HCI) that the arrangement was low 
risk, and says that was the only basis on which he was willing to proceed. But he 
nonetheless signed a declaration provided by Westerby which said:
I/We am/are aware that unlisted shares are a high-risk investment, that there is the 
possibility that I/we could lose all of my/our investment and I/we enter into this investment 
entirely at my/our own risk."
This suggests he attached more weight to what he was told by HCI/Aisa Direct than 
Westerby. I appreciate Mr M may not have read what he signed, but I think that also 
suggests Mr M did not view the role of Westerby as significant at the time.  I also note Mr M says: 
i was told westerby role was to look after my sipp mske (make) sure it was being invested in 
low risks
But I have seen no evidence to show it was Westerby which told Mr M his SIPP would be 
invested in low risk investments (as noted above, Westerby in fact told Mr M the investment 
he was making was high risk, and asked him to acknowledge his understanding of this). So it 
seems likely Mr M was told this by Aisa Direct or HCI, was content to rely on what either or 
both told him, and attached little weight to what was said by Westerby. 
I also note that until at least the email to Aisa Direct of 5 December 2019 Mr M appears to 
have been of the view that Aisa Direct was largely responsible for the position he is in. Mr M 
did not initially answer (or fully answer) our questions about his interactions with Aisa Direct. 
But I now understand he complained to it three times, and it seems his view of the 
responsibility of Westerby changed following an ex gratia payment made to him in early 
2020 by Aisa Direct. 
So I am not persuaded Mr M viewed Westerbys role as important at the time, or that he 
would have attached much weight to what it said to him. 
Mr M was also clearly motivated by the need to obtain money. I think the 2014 note of the 
call between Westerby and Mr M is important as its relatively recent to events. And this 
records that Mr M said he was desperate for money. Mr M also referred to the carrot of the 
cash i needed at that time when detailing his recollections to us. He has also told us he 
went looking on the internet for ways to access his pension early. 
So, in my view, a rejection of Mr Ms application by Westerby would not have deterred Mr M. 
I think he would still have tried to complete the transaction and have been guided by HCI 
and/or Aisa Direct on how to do so.  
In the circumstances of this particular case I think Mr Ms desire to proceed would likely have 
led to HCI and/or Aisa Direct advising Mr M on, or introducing Mr M to, an alternative route 
to transferring his existing pensions and investing in HCI, in order to access the loan HCI 
had offered. And, in the circumstances, I think it more likely than not Mr M would have 
followed the advice or introduction  which it seems would have involved him using one of 
the occupational schemes HCI was using as a vehicle for the liberation  rather than 
attaching significant weight to Westerbys rejection of his application. Westerby has provided 
evidence to show that, when it rejected an application at the end of its relationship with Aisa 
Direct, the consumer then applied to transfer out of the SIPP to one of the occupational 
schemes HCI was using as a vehicle for the liberation. I also note The Pension Regulator 
found 476 members of these occupational schemes had invested around £19m in HCI, 
suggesting this was the primary vehicle used by HCI. 
So I think it likely Mr M would have suffered the loss he has (assuming he has suffered a 
loss, as I do not know how much compensation he was paid by Aisa Direct and how much 
he received from Dalradia), in any event. 
I do not therefore think it would be fair to ask Westerby to pay compensation in the 
circumstances of this particular complaint. I know this will come as a significant 
disappointment to Mr M. I appreciate Mr M is in poor health, and I am sorry to hear of his 
circumstances. But ultimately I need to decide what is fair and reasonable  and I do not 
think it would be fair in this particular case to ask Westerby to pay Mr M compensation for 
the losses he has suffered, for the reasons I have given.  Responses to my provisional findings 
Westerby said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr M did not accept my findings. He said, in summary: 
The declaration he signed was not dated  what evidence is there it was signed 
before the investment was made? 
Westerby did not carry out sufficient checks on the HCI investments and did not take 
sufficient steps to protect him. He thinks it had concerns about HCI before his 
investment was made. If it had taken sufficient steps he would not be in the position 
he is now. 
He raised countless issues with SIPP but every time he called Westerby assured him 
everything was above board.
All along his main claim has been about Westerby not treating him fairly - not making 
sure his investment was safe and not used in an unauthorised way.
He would've left his pension where it was (if Westerby had not allowed the 
investment in HCI). 
He disagrees he was motivated by a loan. He was offered a loan by HCI but it wasn't 
to pay debts off. The money was used for home improvements. The whole pension 
market was flooded with cash for pensions advertised on the TV and radio so he 
assumed this was above board.
Another ombudsman upheld a complaint he considers to be the same as his, and the 
investigator in his complaint has said his complaint should be upheld  I should reach 
the same view.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will disappoint Mr M, but I have not been persuaded to depart from my 
provisional findings. As those findings are quoted above in full I will not repeat them here. 
I appreciate Mr Ms recollection now is that he was not motivated by the loan available from 
HCI and that he used the money for home improvements. But that is not consistent with the 
rest of the available evidence. Although I can understand that, over time, recollections might 
change I think the loan was Mr Ms primary  indeed only  reason for opening the SIPP and 
investing in HCI and that it was a significant motivation as Mr M needed money at the time. 
I also remain of the view that Mr M did not attach much weight to Westerbys involvement at 
the time and was instead reliant on Aisa and/or HCI. And I remain of the view that there was 
likely another route open to Mr M, had Westerby not accepted his application, and that in the 
circumstances he would likely have taken that route and therefore suffered any loss he has 
now suffered. 
I note what Mr M says about the declaration he signed being undated. I think it likely the 
declaration was signed before the HCI investment was made but, even if it were signed 
after, I have seen no evidence to show Mr M challenged or otherwise questioned it, even though he says he proceeded on the understanding he was only being a exposed to a low 
level of risk. So I remain of the view this is evidence Mr M did not pay much attention to the 
role of Westerby at the time  whether the declaration was signed before or after the 
investment was made. 
To be clear I make these findings in the particular circumstances of this complaint - and I am 
required to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each particular 
complaint. Mr M has highlighted another final decision relating to HCI. But the facts of his 
complaint are different to the facts of that other complaint  and it is those different facts 
which have led to a different outcome here.
My final decision
For the reasons given here and in my provisional decision, quoted above, I do not uphold Mr 
Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman