DRN-2821870
The complaint
1) Mr and Mrs J complain that Saga Services Limited changed the underwriter of their 
home insurance without adequately advising them. As a result they believe they were 
prejudiced in the way a claim they had made was handled.
What happened
2) Mr and Mrs J have had insurance placed through Saga continuously since 2008. The 
overall wording of the policy remains the same but Saga acts an intermediary, placing 
the policy with an appropriate underwriter each year. 
3) In 2017 the underwriter changed. Mr J raised a claim for water damage under the policy 
but due to the change of underwriter was informed that the issues at his property pre-
dated its involvement as underwriter. 
4) The underwriter did offer to carry out investigations, but for various reasons which I wont 
go into here it wasnt able to carry them out and says Mr J hasnt been able to show he 
has a claim.
5) Mr J says as far as Saga is concerned that he wasnt advised of the change in 
underwriter and wanted to remain with the previous underwriter. Saga has said the 
underwriter is noted on the renewal documents each year. 
6) The wording of the policy doesnt change but each year it will review the underwriters on 
its panel and place the policy with the cheapest. It isnt responsible for claims handling, 
which the underwriter undertakes.
7) On referral to this service our investigator said that Saga had acted reasonably  it gave 
Mr and Mrs J reasonable notice of renewal and the underwriters name appeared on the 
renewal notice each year.
8) Mr J has said that Saga hasnt made reasonable adjustments for his disabilities  he 
suffers from ill health and more particularly is dyslexic, details of which he has given to 
us and to Saga. 
9) He further says that Saga is in breach of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Act 
1999 as the contract creates a significant imbalance between him as consumer and 
Saga.
10) The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
11) I shall set out what I think is the relationship here between Saga, Mr and Mrs J and the 
underwriter. Saga acts as a broker or intermediary. It has specific policy wording it 
requires its underwriters to use. 
12) But the terms of the policy say that Saga will appoint the underwriter but its the 
underwriter which is responsible for all claims handling. The underwriter is not Sagas 
agent, and Ive seen no evidence that Saga undertakes any claims handing activities. 
13) Saga may, as any broker will do, chase up underwriters on the consumers behalf, but 
that doesnt mean that it accepts any responsibility for the way a claim is handled.
14) Mr J says that Sagas change of underwriter is unfair. I can understand his upset that the 
present underwriter has said that his issues pre-dated its involvement as underwriter. 
15) Nevertheless he has been a customer of Sagas since 2008 and the nature of its 
business is well known  that it provides insurance services rather than it being an 
insurer itself. 
16) Mr J has had a number of claims over the years so will have known that. As to whether 
he was given notice of change of underwriter, this was clearly set out on the renewal 
notice. I havent seen that Mr J had agreed any different arrangement with Saga over the 
provision of policy documents due to his dyslexia. 
17) I understand that Mr J doesnt object to information being given to him in writing, so long 
as its set out concisely but may need more time to consider it and if necessary to 
discuss it over the telephone. 
18) Mrs J as a joint policyholder will also have been given the information. From the nature 
of his correspondence with us I think Mr J would have clearly understood the information 
in the policy renewal notice. 
19) I think Mr J was given adequate notice of the change of underwriter, and he didnt have 
to renew the policy with Saga.
20) As for whether it was fair of Saga to change the underwriter, we dont tell intermediaries 
how to choose their underwriters, as that is their commercial decision to make. 
21) And while I note that the decision was based on the lowest cost, I dont think it can be 
assumed that the underwriter was going to provide an inferior service (something which 
is disputed by that underwriter). 
22) The Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Act 1999 refers to terms in contracts that may 
be unfair by creating a significant imbalance between the consumer and the Business. 
There is no particular term in the contract that refers to the choice of underwriter. 
23) In any event I dont think its unfair for an intermediary to change the underwriter and 
choose one from its panel each year. As Ive said the consumer is free to decide whether 
they want to continue using Saga. 
24) But I dont think it would be reasonable to tell Saga what underwriter to use. Ive seen no 
evidence that Mr and Mrs J were being treated any differently from Sagas other 
customers when it came to selecting the underwriter.
My final decisionI dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2021. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman