DRN-2677080
The complaint
Miss L says AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited shouldnt have written her car off
after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy and didnt pay enough for it.
What happened
After Miss Ls car was inspected, AAs engineer said it would cost over £6,800 to repair. As it
thought the car was worth around the same value, it decided it should be written-off. After
paying off the sum due on the car in finance, AA offered Mis L around £700 for her car. It
relied on the figures set out in the national trade guides to arrive at its market value
assessment, in line with our guidance. Miss L thought the car was worth much more than AA
had offered, as shed seen adverts for similar cars at higher prices.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ls complaint. He thought it was fair for AA to decide
that the car should be written-off. After checking the trade guide valuations, he also thought
AA had offered Miss L a reasonable sum for the car. He said we didnt rely on adverts as the
prices quoted in them were open to negotiation.
Miss L said AA hadnt taken account of the amount of finance owed on the car and how little
shed be left with after it was deducted from AAs settlement offer. She also said that the
investigator hadnt considered her well-being and the impact on her of the situation. The
investigator said the settlement offer wasnt based on the amount of finance on a car,
although the finance provider would be paid first from the settlement sum. He sympathised
with Miss Ls situation but said he didnt think AA had done anything wrong.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
Most insurers consider a car to be an economic total loss if the cost of repairs is likely to be
more than 60% of the cars value. So I think it was reasonable in this case for AA to write the
car off, given the evidence from the engineer about the damage and the likely repair cost.
We think the most reliable way to establish a cars likely market value is to rely on the figures
quoted in the national trade guides. Theyre based on extensive research of likely selling
prices. We dont think adverts are generally useful. Partly thats because the prices quoted in
them are open to negotiation. But its also the case that advertised prices can vary
considerably. And small differences between cars that look similar can impact greatly on
their actual selling price.
Weve checked the trade guide valuations and I think AA offered Miss L a reasonable sum
for the car, based on the valuations given in them. Miss L provided some adverts that she
thought showed she should have been offered more. The points Ive set out above apply to
all the adverts she provided. And in addition to that, as far as I can see, several of them were
for cars that were newer than hers, with much lower mileage.
AA deducted £290 from its valuation for a small amount of pre-existing damage to Miss Ls
car. We think only 50% of the cost of such damage should be deducted, so we asked AA to
confirm how it had dealt with that issue. It didnt respond, despite reminders. As theres
nothing to show that AA only deducted half of the sum due for pre-existing damage, I can
only assume that it didnt, in which case Miss L is owed £145, plus interest.
I know Miss L has found the accident and the claims process stressful, but I think thats
unavoidable, especially when a valuation is disputed. Although I understand why shes
distressed and frustrated by all that has happened, I dont think AA has acted unreasonably
in dealing with her claim, apart from in relation to the charge made for pre-existing damage.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Miss L said she had nothing to 
add. AA said it hadnt received any of our queries about the deduction made for pre-existing 
damage on Miss Ls car. It confirmed that no such deduction was made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I upheld Miss Ls complaint in part as AA hadnt confirmed what sum was deducted for pre-
existing damage, so Miss L might not have received the full amount due to her for her car. 
AA has now confirmed that - although a sum for pre-existing damage was set out on the 
invoice - no deduction for it was made. Given the clarification, I dont think theres any basis 
on which to uphold Miss Ls complaint, for the reasons set out in my provisional view. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman