DRN-2645273
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services failed 
to adequately deal with his complaint brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. This related to the faulty installation of a bathroom suite. He wants compensation for 
the inconvenience caused by delays in dealing with his complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why:
 It was reasonable for Bank of Ireland to consider Mr Ms complaint under both 
chargeback provisions as well as Section 75. It wouldve been open to criticism if it hadnt 
explored different options in trying to resolve Mr Ms complaint. This is particularly so as Mr 
Ms initial complaint was directed to its Chargeback team.
 Im not able to dictate to a business what information it provides on its website. But given 
that chargeback claims have much shorter time limits than those relating to Section 75, its 
not unreasonable that initial attention is drawn to chargeback.
 Having determined that chargeback wasnt available, Bank of Ireland correctly considered 
the complaint under Section 75. This legislation potentially gives a consumer a like claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
 It was necessary for Bank of Ireland to seek information to determine if there had been a 
breach of contract by the supplier of the goods and services, a business Ill refer to as Q.
 Mr Ms claim was for repair costs of £3,020. Bank of Ireland tried to resolve Mr Ms 
complaint by mediating with Q. As a result of this Q paid Mr M £2,600 and Bank of Ireland 
£420. Thus, Mr Ms claim was met in full. As he accepted the settlement it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable to expect Bank of Ireland to pay additional compensation beyond that which 
was agreed.  
 Bank of Ireland is not responsible for what might be characterised as poor service by Q. Or 
delays caused in having to chase up information. And when in receipt of Mr Ms complaint it 
provided a final response letter and referral rights to this service within eight weeks. This is 
in line with what wed expect.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ms frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman