DRN-3311704
The complaint
F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC prevented online access to its account, without 
notice, on two separate occasions which resulted in a loss of income.
F is represented in bringing this complaint by its owner, Mr F.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
On two occasions in March 2020, F was unable to access its online accounts. Mr F 
complained to Barclays who explained that on the first occasion it was necessary for them to 
merge two records which resulted in Fs online access being interrupted. The second 
occasion was caused by an unexpected nationwide issue which affected many of Barclays 
customers.
Barclays has already made a payment of £200 to F and apologised for the inconvenience 
caused, and they offered to increase this by another £50, which Mr F rejected. 
Mr F was unhappy with this outcome, so he brought Fs complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into matters and said he thought Barclays offer of £250 compensation 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr F didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at Fs complaint, so it has been passed to me to decide. 
Mr F would like Barclays to compensate F for the business it lost while its account was 
inaccessible online. Mr F told us the lack of online access resulted in F being unable to take 
on new clients for four days and caused damage to its reputation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator and Ive explained my 
reasons below.
Barclays have detailed the reasons why online access was unavailable on both occasions 
and the evidence Ive seen from them supports these reasons. On the first occasion, it would 
have been better if they had informed F that there was going to be an interruption to its 
online access, but on the second occasion Barclays had no way of informing their 
customers, including F, in advance.
Banks offer multiple ways for their customers to access their accounts, including online 
banking, mobile apps, telephone banking and in-branch banking. One of the reasons there 
are so many options available is so that if one of these options fails or is unavailable there 
are other ways for customers to access their accounts.
I appreciate that F uses online banking as part of the day to day running of its business but 
there were alternative options available to F on the days when online access was 
unavailable. I understand it would have been inconvenient for F but there were ways in 
which F could have mitigated the effects, such as by using telephone banking, which I can 
see F was registered for, or by visiting one of the numerous branches nearby. 
For these reasons, I believe it would be unfair for me to find Barclays responsible for the loss 
of new business or damage to Fs reputation caused by the short period in which online 
access to Fs accounts was unavailable.
However, I do think Barclays should have informed F in advance that there would be an 
issue with online access while they were merging the two records, and I would expect 
Barclays to make a payment to F to reflect the inconvenience this omission caused F.
Putting things right
Barclays have already made a payment of £200 to reflect the inconvenience caused to F 
and they have offered to pay a further £50 to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all 
the circumstances of this complaint, so I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay a further £50 to F, taking the total 
compensation paid to £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman