DRN-3414804
The complaint
Mr S complains Aviva Insurance Limited havent repaired his car fully following a claim under 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mr S was unfortunately involved in an accident. Following this Mr S says Aviva told him 
items would be repaired that then werent  and that Avivas approved repairer caused 
additional damage to his car. So, Mr S is unhappy with repairs not being completed, and 
Avivas communication around this. 
Aviva said theyd instructed an independent report  and they addressed six issues Mr S had 
complained about. Two of the remaining issues were that the dashcam had fallen from the 
car causing damage to the trim  Aviva said they agreed with the independent report saying 
the light scratches arent consistent with the dashcam falling. And, regarding the glue on the 
centre console trim this appeared to be old / pre-existing so they wouldnt be looking to fix 
that.
Mr S wasnt happy with this, so asked us to look into things. In doing so, he explained hed 
not been saying the dashcam was the only thing thatd fallen and caused the scratches  he 
said his mobile phone had as well. Mr S said regarding the centre console and glue, that itd 
popped out as a result of the accident, he pushed it back in, but then glue got everywhere.
While looking into things, Mr S got his own engineers report  which said the dashcam could 
have caused the damage seen, and there was a new issue regarding scratches to the 
bonnet which hadnt been there before.
One of our Investigators considered Mr Ss complaint. He felt some of the issues werent 
ones he could uphold as there wasnt enough evidence to support that, which Mr S 
accepted. He did uphold the issues regarding the dashboard trim, and scratches to the 
bonnet  along with 8% interest from the date of the claim to the date of settlement. He also 
recommended £100 compensation.
Overall, I understand Mr S accepted this outcome  and Aviva said:
Interior trim / glue - The pattern of the dashcam coming loose isnt consistent with the 
damage, and the glue issue appears old / pre-existing. But, as the matter has 
become protracted in a genuine effort to bring the matter to a close, theyd offered a 
cash settlement of £295.07 to resolve it. Aviva provided an estimate to show how 
theyd come to this figure.
Bonnet  Mr Ss independent report said there were some light scratches, but also 
there was some old damage. They said there is an adhesion issue with the clearcoat 
/ lacquer which is peeling badly. Aviva said the bonnet would need to be stripped and 
refurbished due to the poor previous paintwork. They said they wouldnt pay for this, 
as the bonnet would have just needed a polish. They agreed to offer £27.50 for this.
This brings the total cash offer for these two items to be repaired as £322.57 plus 8% 
interest  and Aviva accepted our Investigators recommendation of £100 to compensation 
as well.
In response to this, Mr S got quotes, which came out to £779.65 replace two trims, and £744 
for his bonnet as the scratches couldnt be buffed out  the bonnet needed flattening, with 
primer and paint then being applied. Mr S said the offer Aviva had made didnt cover the 
repairs required.
Aviva didnt think these estimates were reasonable  but our Investigator ultimately did, and 
said he thought Aviva should pay them. As Aviva didnt agree with this, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Ss complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant 
to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The crux of the complaint, and the only outstanding issues as I understand it, are:
Damage to the trim on the dashboard  and glue being present when it shouldnt be 
on the centre console
Scratches on the bonnet
Compensation amount
Damage to the trim on the dashboard  and glue being present when it shouldnt be on the 
centre console
Itll help to explain were not experts on motor repairs and would usually look to rely on 
engineer reports produced by those that are. Here, there is a dispute about that between the 
various experts  so it falls me to decide a fair resolution.
Ive thought carefully about Avivas offer on this point  and Im persuaded its fair.
Avivas offer is for the trim to be repaired rather than replaced  and for the glue on the 
centre console near to the gearstick to be cleared up.
Mr Ss quote of £779.65 is to replace two trims. Mr Ss own engineers report doesnt say this 
would be needed  and instead says they can see some light scratches occurred as a result 
of accident damage to the dashboard trim  and think Avivas approved repairer caused 
further damage.
Aviva have explained they believe the damage to the dashboard trim, and the glue around 
the centre console, can be repaired by their cash offer for these elements of £295.07. Mr Ss quote doesnt explain why both trims would need to be replaced  so, in the absence of fair 
evidence to suggest otherwise  Aviva paying Mr S £295.07 seems fair. Ive noted Aviva 
have added interest to this figure, but on reflection I dont think thats needed. I say that 
because this isnt money Mr S has paid out, and has therefore been deprived of. Aviva can, 
of course, still pay 8% interest on this element if theyd like to, but I dont think itd be fair of 
me to require them to do so.
Scratches on the bonnet
On this point, Im not persuaded Avivas offer is fair.
Taking into account wed generally rely on the engineers reports  Mr Ss report says 
Avivas approved repairers caused the damage, while Aviva say this just isnt possible. 
Our Investigator challenged Aviva on this point  as they said the reason the whole bonnet 
needed to be redone was due to poor previous repairs leading to peeling paintwork which he 
couldnt see.
Ive also looked at the photos provided by the various parties. In the photos I cant clearly 
see any damage to the bonnet or any paint peeling. In Mr Ss independent report  there is 
quite clearly a lot of damage on the bonnet. 
In asking Aviva about their assertion the paintwork was peeling and / or is in the state it is 
would be due to the previous repairs Id expect them to provide some evidence of that. 
Thats what our Investigator asked for  but their evidence is stating this just isnt possible.
Im not persuaded by this argument. Aviva have said the reason they shouldnt be 
responsible for the bonnet being redone is down to previous poor repairs  but if thats the 
case there should be some evidence of that, and none has been provided when asked.
So, as things stand, Ive got an engineers report which says scratches have happened while 
in the care of Avivas approved repairer. Damage can happen, so this doesnt seem entirely 
implausible or unreasonable. In response, Aviva havent provided evidence to back up their 
comments about this being down to previous poor repairs.
If Aviva were able to provide evidence of that, then their position about simply polishing out 
the scratches  and paying an amount to reflect that  might be fair. But they havent done 
that.
So, in the absence of evidence to suggest otherwise, I think paying Mr Ss invoice of £744 is 
fair.
Compensation amount
I can see it has taken some effort from Mr S to get to the point where Aviva would consider 
these two elements  plus issues regarding communication between the approved repairer, 
and Aviva themselves.
Naturally in the course of any insurance claim, some inconvenience will be experienced  
but I agree compensation is appropriate. I can see our Investigator recommended £100, 
which Aviva agreed with  and which Mr S didnt add any further comments for me to 
consider. Having looked at the whole file, I do think the £100 recommended is a fair way of 
putting these matters right for the trouble Mr S has been put to.
SummaryOverall then I think Aviva have offered a fair amount to address the dashboard and centre 
console trim issues  but havent regarding the bonnet. And I think they should pay the £100 
compensation as Ive set out above.
Ive also noted Mr S has said several times evidence can be obtained from other parties  or 
he has evidence he can provide. During the complaint I can see Mr S has provided a 
substantial amount of evidence already, so I felt it appropriate to rely on this. But, if there is 
further evidence Mr S wishes us to take into account, hell need to provide that to us.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S provided a very detailed reply. Ive addressed his points as I feel are needed below  
but I want him to be aware I have read this carefully, and taken everything hes said into 
account, even if thats not reflected in my decision. 
Aviva said they reluctantly accepted my decision. And they explained as Id said they didnt 
have to pay interest on the cash sum of £295.07 they wouldnt be doing so. This meant 
theyd be paying:
£295.07 as a cash in lieu settlement for the dashboard and centre trim issues
£774 for the bonnet repairs
£100 compensation
Totalling £1,169.07.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I just wanted to explain again, same as I did at the start of my provisional decision, that it 
isnt my role to address every single point made. Rather, my role is to focus on the crux of 
the complaint as I see it.
As a reminder, thats:
Damage to the trim on the dashboard  and glue being present when it shouldnt be 
on the centre console
Scratches on the bonnet
Compensation amount
Regarding the bonnet, Mr S spent some time explaining his concerns about Avivas 
approach. I hope he wont think this discourteous, but as Ive decided to uphold that element, 
and Aviva have now accepted this I wont comment on that further.
Mr S also reiterated some of his concerns regarding how the scratches occurred to the 
dashboard trim  and concerns over the gearbox trim popping up. He says these can only be 
replaced at a manufacturers dealership  and the price to do so is significantly higher than 
the £295.07 being offered.
I do note Mr Ss point, but I have to come back to what his own independent report has 
concluded. I appreciate Mr S quoting the relevant sections in his reply that refer to the trims 
 but there isnt anything in his own report that confirms the trims have to be replaced as 
hes saying. Aviva have said they think one of their approved repairers could fix it for £295.07  and Ive not been given anything to dispute that. So, I still think thats a fair way to 
resolve this issue.
Putting things right
I require Aviva to:
Pay £295.07 as a cash in lieu settlement for the dashboard and centre console trim 
issues
Pay £774 for the bonnet repairs
Pay Mr S £100 compensation
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to take the actions set out in the 
Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman