DRN-3998329
The complaint
Ms M complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have handled her 
Buildings Insurance claim.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my intended decision.
My decision here focusses on events up to RSAs first final response letter to Ms M of 
August 2021.  Any reference to events or information outside of these dates are for the 
purpose of addressing this specific complaint. Im mindful Ms M remains unhappy with RSA, 
and further issues exist. I acknowledge she has made submissions which includes further 
detail of events following the date set out above. However, Im not considering these here.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 January 2023 in which I set out what we could and 
couldnt look at. Where situations keep changing, we cant keep amending and adapting our 
assessments to suit. Well do what we can to finalise matters for the parties, but we cant run 
a complaint alongside a claim and comment on every action and event that occurs.  And 
here things have been occurring and changing on a regular basis. But I cant review 
everything thats happened since the complaint came to our service and amend my findings 
to suit. So, I wont be making a finding on anything outside of the dates Ive set out above 
here.
Im sorry to hear of how stressful the escape of water, and subsequent claim, have been for 
Ms M. I understand she feels strongly about whats happened and this is reflected in the 
considerable submissions she has made in bringing her complaint and in response to my 
provisional findings. I also see Ms M took exception to some of the phrasing used in my 
provisional findings. Im sorry Ms M has taken what Ive said to be offensive, but none was, 
or is, intended in any of my communications.
Whilst I dont intend to respond in similar detail, I can assure Ms M I have read all her 
correspondence and taken it into account when making my decision. 
So, if I dont mention any particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen 
it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. 
This isnt intended to be meant as a discourtesy; it is just a reflection of the informal nature of 
our service.
My provisional decision
In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im intending to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
RSA accept duplicated claims were opened on their system in error. RSA has
provided sufficient evidence the claims, have been amended on the system  and
associated excess fees are correctly reflected. It has also confirmed it has had no
impact on Ms Ms premium or her no claims discount. I think this is sufficient and
fairly represents the claims made by Ms M.
RSA have accepted it caused delays in the progress of the claim. On two occasions
it sent the wrong contractors to Ms Ms house to assess the leak. RSA have also
acknowledged it could have provided better customer service to
Ms M, referencing how calls with Ms M had been handled.
Ms M has spoken of the understandable stress and worry the claim has caused her.
Including the impact, it has had both on her health and financially. I think the nature
of the claim would naturally be stressful, but RSAs initial delays in sending the wrong
contractors would have contributed to this.
RSA have offered Ms M a total of £440 compensation. However, considering what
Ive set out above, I think RSA should increase this by a further £150 as I think this
fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience Ms M has been caused.
Ive considered what Ms M has said about taking time off work to try to deal with
matters  and I understand she wants wages she lost reimbursed to her. Our service
wouldnt usually look to award compensation for having to complain or would we look
to do this at a daily occupational rate. This is one of lifes inconveniences, and in any
event, the matter of complaint handling itself isnt something that falls within the remit
of this service. I do appreciate however this has added to the frustration Ms M has
felt, but I have considered any distress and inconvenience in the award Ive set out
above.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA have not provided any further specific comment regarding my provisional decision.
Ms M responded in considerable detail which I wont repeat here and provided numerous 
documents to support her position. In her submissions Ms M made it clear she did not agree 
with my provisional findings, she reiterated the history of the claim, and what happened, 
providing her thoughts on each situation. She also provided her commentary to each of the 
points I made in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Ms M said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my reasoning. 
RSA has provided a list of Ms Ms claims and confirmation the duplicate claims had been 
closed off. Ive also seen internal notes from RSA confirming the claims have been 
corrected. From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied the claims are now correctly recorded.
Ms M says she feels she has been effectively blacklisted with new insurers by RSAs 
actions. Ive not seen anything that persuades me this is the case. Each insurer decides what risks it will and wont accept for individual customers  but Ive not seen any specific 
examples that RSAs actions, or how the claims are recorded, have impacted Ms M 
obtaining cover elsewhere.
Regarding compensation I acknowledge Ms Ms comment she wasnt specifically asking for 
direct recompense for loss of earnings, but for compensation to fairly reflect the 
inconvenience shes suffered  which includes the time shes lost because of the issues 
RSA caused in sending the wrong contractors on several occasions. 
I set out above that all references to RSA also includes its appointed agents. And in referring 
to compensation I mean any payment RSA, or its associated agents, have made to Ms M in 
addressing something it did wrong.
Having reviewed the circumstances of the complaint again, I still consider the total 
compensation I set out in my provisional decision, relating to this complaint, remains fair and 
in the range of what I think is reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, I do not increase 
the award.
Putting things right
RSA offered Ms M a total of £440 compensation. However, as Ive set out above, I think 
RSA should increase this by a further £150.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint.
I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman