DRN-3865425
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) handled her request for help 
with a refund in respect of flights which did not go ahead.
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs S visited the website of a travel agent Ill call O and booked return flights 
for three members of her family. The flights cost £1,964.98 and were due to depart on 29 
May 2020 and return on 5 June 2020. She paid for flights using her HSBC credit card.
 
Mrs S said the flights were cancelled by the airline on 12 May 2020. O sent an email to Mrs 
S (but addressed to one of the travelling party) in July 2020 saying it had obtained a flexible 
ticket as a refund. It said the family member could also click on a link if they wanted a cash 
refund. 
Mrs S emailed O on 7 October 2020 and asked for a refund.
 
Having not received a refund Mrs S asked HSBC to step in and help. She submitted a claim 
for a refund on 2 November 2020. 
Unhappy with how long things were taking Mrs S complained to HSBC in March 2021. It said 
it was experiencing delays with dispute claims and apologised. 
In May 2021 HSBC told Mrs S it was looking into her dispute and credited her account with 
the cost of the flights pending the outcome of the investigation. It raised what is known as a 
chargeback claim with Os bank.
In August 2021 HSBC told Mrs S her dispute claim had been declined as O had defended 
the chargeback claim. It re-debited the cost of the flights from Mrs Ss account.
 
HSBC raised another chargeback shortly after this and credited Mrs Ss account with the 
cost of the flights again in January 2022. In May 2022 it re-debited her account. It has since 
explained the second chargeback was also defended by O. 
Dissatisfied with HSBCs handling of matters Mrs S referred her complaint to this service.
 
Before an investigator here looked at the complaint, HSBC offered to pay Mrs S 
compensation of £100 for delays in looking at her dispute, and for not telling her sooner that 
her chargeback claim was in fact out of time under the chargeback scheme rules. 
An investigator here thought HSBC had offered reasonable compensation for what had gone 
wrong. He said a chargeback was destined to fail if taken any further as it had been raised 
out of time. And he said the necessary conditions had not been met for a claim under 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
 
Mrs S disagreed with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
She said, in summary, that:
She thinks she visited a branch of HSBC to make it aware of her dispute 
within the time limit for a chargeback to be raised, but was told to try and 
resolve things with O. 
She booked and paid for the flights with O so must have had the necessary 
relationship with it for a claim under Section 75
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Covid-19 pandemic brought with it many issues relating to travel which could not go 
ahead as planned, with lots of flights and holidays being cancelled.
In many instances in the early days of the pandemic, where the supplier hadnt refunded the 
cost of a service that didnt go ahead, the customer could look to their bank for a refund and 
commonly the banks refunded customers where the supplier had failed to, when appropriate.
 
But the right to a refund when a holiday or flight hasnt happened as expected because of 
Covid-19 isnt automatic. It is dependent on the individual circumstances of each case and 
the legal position, which can be complicated.
 
Here, I am looking at the actions of HSBC and whether it has acted fairly and reasonably in 
the way it handled Mrs Ss request for help in getting her money back. This will take into 
account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier has acted, but there are 
also other considerations, such as the scheme rules a bank has to follow and its own 
obligations. 
There are two main ways a bank can help a customer to recover money paid to a supplier 
who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money from the supplier 
through a process known as chargeback. Or it can assess whether its customer has a valid 
claim under Section 75.
 
Chargeback
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a 
payment a customer made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute with 
the supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer. While it is 
good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there is some 
prospect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be appropriate 
for the bank to raise a chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set by the 
relevant card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed. 
Here HSBC raised a chargeback for Mrs S, but it was defended by O on the basis it had 
been brought out of time and because it said the flight tickets she bought were non-
refundable. Looking at the scheme rules for the services not received dispute condition, Mrs 
S had to raise a chargeback within 120 days of the last date she expected to receive the 
service from O. Even using the date of the return flight as the starting point, Mrs S submitted 
her dispute form to HSBC more than 120 days after this. 
Mrs S has said she visited a branch of HSBC and told it about her dispute within what she 
thinks was 120 days of the date of the return flights. She said this was sometime in October 
2020  around the time of her email to O on 7 October 2020. There is no record of this visit in HSBCs contact notes. But in any event, the last day HSBC 
could have raised the chargeback within the time limit looks to have been 5 October 2020. 
Mrs Ss recollections as to exactly when she made the branch aware of her dispute arent 
entirely clear. I keep in mind also that HSBC would have needed some time to put the 
chargeback claim together and raise it. On balance, Ive still not seen enough to find that 
HSBC would have been in a position to raise the chargeback within the necessary time limit. 
Mrs S made us aware that O had confirmed to her in 2022 that the airline would provide a 
refund, but this never materialised. There is a dispute condition for where a credit has not 
been processed that might have been relevant here. Under the relevant card scheme rules  
however, a new chargeback raised for the same transaction under a different dispute 
condition was unlikely to succeed as only one attempt was permitted per transaction. And of 
course, HSBC had already attempted one in 2020. 
It seems therefore that even if HSBC had continued to pursue the chargeback, (perhaps to 
the final stage where the card scheme made the ultimate decision about who got to keep the 
money), it was always destined to fail as it did not meet the necessary conditions of the card 
scheme rules. 
Nevertheless, HSBC still handled the chargeback poorly. It took more than six months after 
Mrs S asked for its help to raise the chargeback and then another two months after O 
defended it tell Mrs S. Although it was reasonable for HSBC to at least attempt a chargeback 
it should have been clear from the start with Mrs S that it was very unlikely to succeed 
because it was being raised outside the relevant time limit. And it never properly explained to 
Mrs S why it had re-credited and re-debited her account a second time in 2021. 
This undoubtedly caused Mrs S distress and inconvenience while she wondered what was 
happening with her refund request. HSBC paid Mrs S compensation of £100 for this. But I 
assess it at £200. The worry of not knowing whether Mrs S would get her money was 
prolonged over 18 months and I think this warrants a little more compensation than HSBC 
offered. 
Section 75
HSBC didnt look at Mrs Ss claim under S75 initially and only appears to have considered 
this after becoming aware of our involvement in the complaint. Id expect HSBC to have 
considered both ways it could have helped Mrs S when she made it aware of her dispute. 
So, Ive considered its potential liability to her under Section 75 when deciding what is fair 
and reasonable in this complaint.
 
Section 75 provides that subject to certain criteria the borrower under a credit agreement 
has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. One of these criteria is that there 
must be a debtor, creditor, supplier (DCS) agreement.
 
This means the credit provided by HSBC to Mrs S had to finance a transaction between her 
and O. 
Mrs S said she booked and paid for the flights with O so there was a DCS agreement in 
place. Its not as simple as that however and I need to think about whether Mrs S was a 
party to the contract with O for the supply of its booking services. Looking first at the booking confirmation, O identified its customer as one of the travelling 
party and not Mrs S. And it continued to address communications to that person after the 
booking was made  albeit via Mrs Ss email address. 
On that point, I know Mrs S has said she told O that it should address communications to her 
and it looks like Mrs S must have asked O to send communications to her email address 
when she completed the booking on Os website. Again however, this doesnt mean she was 
a party to the contract with O.
Looking also at Os terms and conditions, Ive not seen anything that makes me think 
someone that wouldnt be using the travel services being booked by O became a party to the 
contract with it. 
Overall, the available evidence suggests to me that in this case, Mrs S as a non-travelling 
party simply completed the booking information on Os website on behalf of her family 
members that would be travelling and made payment. But that doesnt look in this case to 
have made her a party to the contract with O. On balance it seems Os contract was most 
likely with the person it identified as its customer.
This means a DCS agreement was most likely not in place and Mrs S did not have a valid 
claim for the cost of the flights under Section 75. 
So, while HSBC should have considered its liability to Mrs S under Section 75, shes not lost 
out as a result of this. 
Overall therefore, I dont find that HSBC has treated Mrs S unfairly by not paying her the cost 
of the flights. I do find however that it should pay her more compensation for the way it 
handled her request for help. 
I know this will be incredibly disappointing for Mrs S and I really do sympathise with her 
given the flights appear to have not gone ahead through no fault of her own.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay  
Mrs S £200 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman