DRN-3299267
The complaint
Mr C complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds valuation of his car following 
his claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C was in a serious accident which wasnt his fault. His car was so damaged that Admiral 
decided that it was uneconomical to repair. So they offered him £14,010, less his policy 
excess, for his cars market value. They said that this was in line with motor trade guides. 
Mr C didnt think that was enough. He thought that Admiral hadnt valued his car correctly 
and that it was worth about £22,000. He said as follows. Admiral hadnt considered that his 
car was very rare, was in one of the last group ever made, and hed done extensive work on 
it to bring it to an exceptional standard. Hed given them photographs of his car showing its 
condition. He had also given them opinions about its value from independent experts, and 
adverts showing what similar cars to his were selling for. The trade guides Admiral used 
werent reliable or accurate for a car like his which was in a different market and had a 
different price point. He couldnt buy a replacement car of similar specification and condition 
for what Admiral had offered. He had lost a cherished car through no fault of his own, and he 
felt that Admiral were making the situation worse than it already was.  
The investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Admiral had acted in line with their policy terms and our stated approach in relying on the 
trade guides, but they should have used a different starting point. She recommended a 
higher figure of £17,310 . Admiral  didnt agree with the investigators view, although they did 
increase their offer slightly. Mr C still didnt think the amount was enough. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator explained to Mr C what our approach was regarding complaints about car 
valuations. We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we merely consider whether 
or not the insurer has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the valuations 
in the motor trade guides. These guides are based on extensive nationwide research of 
likely selling prices and we believe they give a reasonable and independent guide and take 
account of a number of factors including mileage, condition, and any extra features. Overall, 
we find them more persuasive than adverts as they contain asking prices that may be 
negotiated downwards. So the issue for me to decide is whether Admiral  have acted 
reasonably in deciding the value of Mr Cs car, considering their policy terms and our 
approach. 
Mr Cs car insurance policy says that market value is:  
The cost of replacing your vehicle, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term 
market' refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from 
industry recognised motor trade guides.
Admiral felt that their valuation was fair. I can see that they did explain to Mr C that market 
value did not necessarily mean the price paid for the car or its perceived value and the 
amount spent on restoring or improving it may not necessarily increase its market value, 
particularly where the work carried out is general maintenance. They said that valuing 
second-hand cars was not an exact science. I think thats fair and is in line with our 
approach. Admiral also explained that theyd considered all relevant information about his 
car and its history and condition, and in valuing Mr Cs car theyd looked at the motor trades 
guides. Mr Cs car did appear in the guides. Admiral took the higher of two guides and said 
theyd increased the amount for Mr Ds cars low mileage for its age. They offered him 
£14,010 less his policy excess.  
Mr C felt that his car was rare, was in exceptional condition and had an unusually low 
mileage for its age. I have considered the information he provided showing adverts for 
comparable condition cars. But advertised sale prices are not generally a reliable indicator of 
market value. This is because they are based on the sale price a seller hopes to achieve, not 
what a car actually sells for. I dont think they reliably show what the market value of his car 
is, or that it was unreasonable for Admiral to rely on the guides. 
He didnt think the trade guides properly reflected his cars value  He gave Admiral what he 
said were expert statements about his car and their views as to its value, which he felt 
supported a higher valuation. These included views from the official valuer from his cars 
enthusiasts club, and an engineer who had formerly worked for the manufacturer and who 
had also worked on Mr Cs car. Mr C felt that they had experience of his car and of the 
market for it and their views should count for more than the trade guides as his car was in a 
different market. 
Some cars are so unusual that they do not appear in the trade guides, but thats not the case 
here. Mr Cs car did appear in the guides. So I think that it was fair of Admiral to use the 
guides and thats what wed expect them to do. I dont think that what Mr C provided 
overrides the guides, but they did add to the background. And I think that Admiral should 
have considered that his car was not a standard model but was rare,and take that into 
account in how they used the trade guides.
And so I agree with the investigators approach. She checked that Admiral had valued Mr 
Cs car in accordance with our guidance, considering its model, additional features and the 
actual mileage. However against Mr Cs  background information regarding the rarity and 
condition of the car, she thought that the standard valuations from the trade guides were not 
a fair valuation starting point. So she obtained bespoke valuations from two of the main 
motor trade guides, the third being unavailable. The two trade guides provided values of 
£15,835 and £18,786. As we believe its fair for an insurer to pay the average of the 
available valuations, the investigator thought it was fair for Admiral to offer that average , 
minus the excess in line with the policy terms. So she recommended that his cars valuation 
be increased to £17, 310.50. 
Mr C didnt agree. I do see that he lost a cherished car and thats unfair. But although 
Admiral didnt offer what he wanted for his car, I dont think they can be said to have made 
things worse for him.  
 
Admiral disagreed with the investigators view but did offer a slight increase based on their 
views about which of the guides were more accurate. But I consider that the bespoke valuations our investigator obtained are a fair reflection of the range of the cars value, and 
that taking the average of those available is fair and in line with our stated approach. 
Putting things right
It appears that Admiral have already paid Mr C the £14,010 less the excess. I think that they 
should now pay him the difference between the £14,010 and the £17,310.50, plus interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive discussed above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do the following: 
Pay Mr C the difference between £17,310.50 and £14,010 .
 
Pay Mr C interest on that difference at 8% simple from the date the claim was made 
to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr C how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
