DRN-1627481
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) was negligent in the 
advice it gave him, which led to him being mis-sold an endowment policy. He said this was 
unsuitable for him as he wasnt prepared to take any risks when it came to his savings.
What happened
Mr D told us that he took out an endowment policy in 1991. He said he was given advice by 
a representative of Standard Life. He suggested that hed been told the policy would provide 
him with a lump sum of money after 20 years. 
Standard Life has said that because the plan was sold more than seven years ago, it has no 
information about who sold it. And, for that reason, its unable to investigate a complaint 
about the advice given. 
Neither party has been able to provide us with any documentation about the policy or the 
sale. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She said that as she had nothing to show how, 
when or where the endowment was sold, she couldnt investigate the mis-sale any further. 
But Mr D remained unhappy so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this may come as a disappointment to Mr D, I dont uphold his complaint  and 
Ill explain why.
While it hasnt been disputed that it was a Standard Life policy, the issue here is about the 
advice given that led to an endowment policy being sold. And because it was a Standard Life 
policy, it has some  albeit very limited  information about the policy.  But this doesnt mean 
that it was responsible for the advice given at the time of sale. 
There simply isnt enough information available to say who was responsible. Because of the 
amount of time that has passed, neither party has any evidence about the sale. This is 
understandable - I cant reasonably expect either party to have information about a sale that 
happened almost 30 years ago. So I cant safely say, based on what Ive seen, that the 
policy was sold by, or the advice given by, Standard Life. And I note that it would be very 
difficult for Standard Life to prove that it wasnt responsible for the advice given. Our 
investigator pointed out that its generally quite difficult to prove a negative.
Given the above, I cant fairly hold Standard Life liable for the advice given that led to the 
endowment policy being sold. And I dont have sufficient evidence to determine whether it 
was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Standard Life Assurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman