DRN-3996603
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs K complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund the 
money they lost when they were the victims of what they feel was a scam.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs K were searching for holidays online and came across a travel agent they had 
used before. They called the phone number that came up, but it was busy so they arranged 
for a call back. Mr B and Mrs K then received a call from someone claiming to work for the 
travel agent, who discussed potential flights and prices with them. And as Mr B and Mrs K 
were happy with the flights discussed, they went into their local branch and made a payment 
of £2,999 from their account to the bank details the caller gave them.
Mr B and Mrs K called the caller back to confirm they had received the payment but were 
told it hadnt been received and, due to the delay, the price had now gone up. Mr B and 
Mrs K didnt want to pay the higher price, so the caller agreed to refund the money they had 
paid and said it would be returned to them in a few days.
Four days later, Mr B and Mrs K called the caller again as they had decided they did want to 
book the flights. The caller told them they could get the flights at the same price they had 
agreed to initially, but would need to make a new payment as their first payment was still in 
the process of being refunded. So Mr B and Mrs K went into their local branch and made a 
second payment of £2,999 to new bank details the caller gave them. Mr B and Mrs K then 
also made a card payment of £3,002.90 to a travel money company.
Mr B and Mrs K later became suspicious, didnt receive any tickets and couldnt get in 
contact with the caller anymore. So they reported the payments to Halifax as fraud and 
asked it to refund the money they had lost. Halifax investigated but said Mr B and Mrs K 
should have carried out more checks into the company before sending the payment, and 
didnt agree to refund the money they lost. They also questioned whether this was actually a 
scam, as Mr B and Mrs K appeared to have been refunded one of the £2,999 payments they 
made by the travel agent. Mr B and Mrs K werent satisfied with Halifaxs response, so 
referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought this was more likely to be a 
civil dispute between Mr B and Mrs K and the travel agent, rather than a scam. And so they 
didnt think Halifax should have to refund the payments Mr B and Mrs K made. Mr B and 
Mrs K disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Halifax should be required to refund the money Mr B and Mrs K 
have lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. But there are certain 
activities banks are expected to carry out to try to protect their customers from falling victim 
to scams, and certain protections in place for customers who do fall victim to scams.
In order to be satisfied that Mr B and Mrs K have been the victims of a scam, I must be 
satisfied that the caller they were dealing with set out from the beginning with the intent to 
defraud them. But I dont think the evidence suggests this is the case here.
Mr B and Mrs K initially called the travel agent on a number they found through an internet 
search and then received a call back. So if this were a scam, the scammers would have had 
to either get a fake phone number to appear on the internet search or had access to the 
legitimate travel agents voicemail service. And I think this is unlikely.
After Mr B and Mrs K asked for the first payment they made to be refunded, it was them who 
got back in touch with the caller rather than the caller contacting them with further offers. 
And Id usually expect a scammer to be more pro-active in pursuing a victim to make more 
and more payments, rather than not contacting them for four days. So what happened here 
doesnt fit the pattern Id expect of a scam.
Halifaxs records also show Mr B and Mrs K were emailed an itinerary of the flights they had 
agreed and were given a reference number that they put into the legitimate travel agents 
website and showed the tickets they had been issued with. And I wouldnt have expected a 
scammer to have been able to fake both of these things.
Mr B and Mrs K also received a refund of £2,999 back into their account, from the account 
they made the second payment to, around seven weeks after they made the payment. And I 
think its very unlikely a scammer would return a victims money to them, particularly so long 
after they had taken it from them and so long after they had stopped contacting the victim.
I appreciate how Mr B and Mrs K feel about this case. And some of the evidence they have 
provided could suggest they have been the victims of a scam. But, based on all the evidence 
I have, I think its more likely this was a purchase from a legitimate business that ultimately 
went wrong. I dont think the caller or the travel agent set out from the beginning with the 
intent to defraud Mr B and Mrs K, or that they were the victims of a scam.
I recognise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B and Mrs K. And my 
decision shouldnt be read as saying I think they did anything wrong or that they havent 
been treated poorly by the travel agent. But as I dont think this was a scam, the protections 
in place for victims of scams dont apply here and I dont think it would be fair to hold Halifax 
responsible or require it to refund the money Mr B and Mrs K lost.
It appears the card payment Mr B and Mrs K made was to a legitimate travel money 
company, and so they likely received the goods or services they paid for from that company. 
But, in any event, as I dont think this was a scam I also dont think Halifax is required to do 
anything further to recover the remaining money Mr B and Mrs K sent to the travel agent or 
the travel money company.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023. Alan Millward
Ombudsman