DRN-4131721
The complaint
Mr Ws representative complains on his behalf that Haven Insurance Company Limited 
(Haven) unfairly increased the cost of his premiums mid-way through the term of his 
commercial motor insurance policy.
References to Mr W, or his representative, will include the other.
Haven are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the broker. As Haven accepted it is accountable for the actions of the broker, in 
my decision, any reference to Haven includes the actions of the broker.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr W took out a commercial motor insurance policy with Haven. 
In October 2021 Mr W had an incident with a third-party vehicle. He reported it to Havens 
accident management company as per the terms of his policy. 
Haven closed the claim prior to Mr Ws policy renewal because it had not had any 
correspondence from the third-party insurer to pursue the claim. It was recorded as 
notification only, non fault and no payment 
Mr Ws policy renewed in December 2021. 
In March 2022 Haven received correspondence from the insurers of the third-party involved 
in the incident of October 2021. Haven re-opened the claim and then settled it as fault. 
Haven reduced Mr Ws no claims discount and told Mr W his policy that has started in 
December 2021 had an increased premium due of £705.14. It said this was because the 
claim had occurred in the previous term of insurance cover. 
As Mr Ws representative was not happy with Haven, they brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said Haven were 
aware of the fault incident and the potential for a third party to make a claim, so they didnt 
think it was fair for Haven to increase the policy mid-term in such circumstances. They said 
the price increase should be reversed. 
As Haven is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Haven said it increased Mr Ws annual premium mid-way through the term of this insurance 
policy because although it was not aware of the claim from the third-party insurer until 
March 2022, the actual incident had happened In October 2021 which was during the 
previous term of insurance cover. It said this meant Mr Ws no claims discount had to be 
reduced and it had to re-rate the policy. This re-rate generated an additional premium of 
£705.14. Haven said the additional premium had been applied to correct the annual 
premium.
I have considered if it was fair for Haven to increase Mr Ws premium mid-term in these 
circumstances. 
An insurer can't raise the premium mid-term if it is aware of an ongoing claim at renewal. 
Haven was made aware of the incident by Mr W in October 2021. I saw in Havens renewal 
invitation to Mr W in December 2021 it details a claim in October 2021 as a notification only, 
non fault and nil payment. This confirms Haven was aware of the incident  prior to the policy 
renewal in December 2021. Therefore there was potential for a claim from the third-party. 
I wouldn't expect Haven to increase premiums mid-term if the incident happened in 
March 2022 and I therefore don't expect them to do it in the situation in this case where it 
said it wasnt aware of the third-party claim until March 2022. 
The policy was already in place and Haven became aware of the actual claim within the 
renewed policy term. Haven didn't incur any loss during the term of the previous year policy 
contract. It settled the claim as fault in 2022. Therefore any impact on Mr Ws premiums 
should only be from when the policy renewal was due in December 2022.
In this situation, when the policy was renewed in December 2021, the information used by 
Haven was that the claim was recorded as notification only, non fault and nil payment. It was 
Havens decision to record the claim that way and close it prior to the renewal date. Mr W did 
not make a mistake as he correctly reported the incident at the time it happened. 
I do not think it was fair for Haven to increase Mr Ws premium mid-term due to a claim from 
the third-party being made during the term of the policy. 
Therefore, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and require Haven to reverse the price increase and 
remove any record of outstanding payments in relation to this from Mr Ws motor insurance 
records.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to reverse the price increase and remove any 
record of outstanding payments in relation to this from Mr Ws motor insurance records.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman