DRN-4134120
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the way QIC Europe LTD (QIC) handled a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but QIC is the underwriter of this 
policy (i.e. the insurer). It is therefore responsible for it, and any references to QIC includes 
the actions of the companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr Rs car was stolen and so he made a claim on his policy. The car was later recovered but 
deemed a total loss. QIC valued Mr Rs car at £3,000 but he didnt think its valuation was fair 
and complained. He was also unhappy with aspects of the service he had received. 
QIC said its offer was above the average prices it obtained from the vehicle valuation guides 
it looked at, so it didnt change its position. It also thought it had dealt with the claim in good 
time, but recognised its agents didnt always phoned Mr R back when they should have.
When Mr R brought his complaint to our service, he said he wasnt provided with a courtesy 
car and was left without a car to use for four weeks. He said his car had recently had new 
tyres and brake pads fitted. Mr R also said it had a DVD system and inbuilt TV screens, but 
QICs offer was based on the book value and not bespoke to his car. He also complained 
about the service he received during a phone call with QIC.
Mr R would like compensation for the time he was without a courtesy car to use. He would 
also like QIC to increase its valuation to £4,000 and send him a written apology. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld; she said Mr R wasnt entitled to 
a courtesy car under the policy. She thought the valuation was in line with the policy terms 
and our usual approach, and that the claim was dealt with in a timely manner. Our 
investigator listened to the phone call between Mr R and QIC and didnt think the call handler 
was rude or unhelpful. She also said QIC had acknowledged it didnt phone him when it 
should have, and that it had done enough to remedy the mistake. 
Mr R didnt accept our investigators opinion, he says:
that the stress and financial implication he suffered as a result of QIC not returning 
his phone calls and not delivering on its promises were immense. 
That he doesnt think an apology is good enough, and he says he was out of pocket 
because of its inability to update him on his claim. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached. 
Valuation
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Rs policy, QIC must pay him the market value of the car, less 
his excess.
The market value is defined as:
the cost of replacing your car in the UK with one of a similar make, model, age, mileage and 
condition, immediately before the loss or damage happened. 
Mr R said he insured his car for £4,500, however, the policy documentation states the car 
was worth £3,900. Even so, I dont think that means QIC need to pay him the value stated at 
inception. This is because the policy only requires QIC to pay the cars market value 
immediately before the loss. So, the issue for me to decide is whether it has treated him 
fairly when valuing his car. I think it did, and Ill explain why.
For the industry its standard practice to use valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so, as the valuations the guides 
give are based on national research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age 
and mileage for sale at the time of loss. We also find theyre more reliable than individual 
adverts, and the reason for this is because it is difficult to know what a car will eventually sell 
for from the advert. Advertised prices can also vary widely  and variations, such as age and 
mileage, can significantly impact the eventual price a car is sold for. 
There may be occasions where we do look at adverts and this can be when we arent able to 
get a result from the guides, for example where the car is old or a rare model. I dont think 
this was the case here.
Occasionally, a vehicle may have modifications made to it which may increase its value, but 
thats not usually the case. More often, we find these features dont increase the value a car 
is sold for and usually depreciate over time. Mr R says that when he bought the car, he paid 
more for the DVD player and built in TV screens, however he hasnt been able to evidence 
how much it cost for the extra features. Considering this, the age of the car, and that the 
modifications were made at least seven years before the loss, Im not persuaded they would 
have increased the value of his car to the extent hes claiming. 
Mr R says he had replaced the brake pads and tyres prior to the incident, but I find this is 
maintenance work that is often required to maintain a cars condition. I dont think it would 
improve the car beyond the price a similar car in good condition might be sold for on the 
open market.
QIC provided evidence of the valuations it obtained using the valuation guides, and these 
priced Mr Rs car at £3,150, £2,895, and £2,500. QICs valuation is in the top end of the 
figures it obtained from the guides it used. Our investigator also consulted a fourth guide, 
which produced a figure of £3,054. 
We normally consider an offer somewhere between the range of guide values fair. QICs 
valuation of £3,000 is above the average of the guide figures, and within the range of figures 
Ive seen, so I think thats fair. I know this will be disappointing to Mr R, but Im satisfied QIC carried out a fair valuation of his car. So, I wont ask it to offer any more than it already has.   
Courtesy Car
The terms and conditions of the policy say that once we have decided that our approved 
repairer can repair your car, we will provide you with a courtesy car to use until the repairs 
are finished.
A courtesy car is usually provided by the approved repair garage when a policyholders car 
has been taken in for damage to be repaired. As Mr Rs car was stolen and then declared a 
total loss, I dont think he was entitled to a courtesy car. I can see QIC informed him of this 
when he asked. So, I dont think it needs to cover the costs he says he incurred while his 
claim was in process. 
Customer Service and Delays
Mr Rs car was stolen on 19 August 2022 and his claim was settled three weeks later, on 9 
September 2022. While I understand that the processing and validation of a claim can take 
some time, I would expect an insurer to process a claim as quickly as possible and avoid 
delaying it without good reason. Having considered Mr Rs claim journey, I find QIC dealt 
with his claim in good time. So, I dont think it needs to compensate for the time it took to 
settle the claim. 
However, it recognised there were occasions when Mr R was told he would be phoned back, 
but he wasnt. When things go wrong, we expect a business to put it right and address any 
financial, practical, or emotional impact its error had. Im satisfied Mr R hasnt lost out 
financially because of the error. He says he had to pay for alternative transport during this 
time, but as I said above, he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car, so I find he would have still 
incurred these costs even if they had phoned him when they said. As such, I dont think QIC 
is responsible for covering this expense. 
Unfortunately, using financial services wont always be hassle free and mistakes do happen, 
but that doesnt always mean we think compensation is due. I appreciate the lack of phone 
calls will have been frustrating to him, but I note most of the problems occurred in a period of 
a little more than a week, just before his claim was settled. QIC acknowledged it could have 
provided a better service, and it apologised for it and I think thats fair in the circumstances.   
I accept the agent from the complaints team didnt also phone on the day they had arranged, 
but I note he apologise for this when he phoned and explained that systems were down at 
that time. Mr R is also unhappy about the way he was spoken to. Having listened to this 
phone call, I find the agent remained polite and professional during what, in my opinion, was 
a challenging conversation. I also note that during this phone call, Mr R says he would settle 
for an apology for the lack of updates and Im satisfied thats been done in QICs final 
response letter to him. Ultimately, I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons I mentioned above, I have decided that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman