DRN-3669132
The complaint
Mr G complains that Canada Life Limited (CLL), his enhanced annuity provider, is paying 
him too little each month given his medical conditions. 
What happened
Mr G bought an Annuity Growth Account (AGA) with CLL for £40,898.67. It was set up on 14 
September 2007 on a single life basis, with no guarantee.
According to CLLs factsheet, an AGA is a flexible lifetime annuity which provides income for 
life. It is not a drawdown product and cant be cashed in. The factsheet also explained that a 
second annuitant couldnt be added to the policy unless it already provided second annuitant 
benefits. And that no death benefits would be payable if no guarantee or second annuitant 
benefits had been selected, as in Mr Gs case. So, under the terms of the policy that Mr G 
had selected in 2007, monthly payments would stop immediately on his death, and the policy 
would end.
Further, the factsheet explains that part of the purchase money would be used to purchase a 
temporary income. And the rest would be invested in Canada Life pension funds. This was 
known as the Investment Element. After the initial payment period ended, the value of the 
Investment Element would be used to purchase further income, either for another fixed 
period, or for life.
CLL wrote to Mr G on 15 March 2018 to let him know his policy would be reviewed in six 
months. It said his income term would finish and his current income would stop. So hed 
need to decide what he wanted to do. It said it would send Mr G his options six weeks before 
the September 2018 review date. The letter also noted: The policy does not have a 
Surrender Value. 
CLL wrote to Mr G on 6 August 2018 to let him know his policy was due for review on 14 
September 2018. At this point his three-year income term would come to an end. And Mr G 
would need to decide how he wanted to use the value of the Investment Element. The letter 
strongly recommended that Mr G got professional advice about this decision.
The 6 August 2018 letter set out Mr Gs options, which were to select:
Option 1 - another three-year income with another review in three years time
Option 2 - a) a lifetime income with CLL on either a standard basis if in good health, or 
b) an enhanced basis if Mr G qualified for medical reasons
Option 3 - to transfer the Investment Element of his policy to another lifetime annuity 
with a different provider. 
CLL also provided Mr G with an illustration - called a Personal Example - of the lifetime 
income Mr G could receive. This was £1,873.56 a year based on standard terms. The 
Personal Example stated that this amount would cease on Mr Gs death.
CLL sent Mr G a further reminder letter of the upcoming review on 31 August 2018. It also 
provided a new Personal Example on the same income basis Mr G was at that point 
receiving. This stated that Mr G could receive an annual income of £1,889.76. And told him 
that he should let it know if he needed a different income basis.
I understand that Mr G provided CLL with all of the medical information it needed in order for 
it to be able to assess whether it could offer him an enhanced lifetime annuity. CLL 
determined that Mr G did qualify for an enhanced annuity on the basis of the evidence hed 
provided.
CLL sent Mr G details of the enhanced lifetime annuity, dated 14 September 2018. This 
showed the lifetime income Mr G could receive based on the medical information hed 
provided. It quoted an enhanced lifetime annuity of £2,452.32 a year. And stated that the 
pension would cease on Mr Gs death. It also provided a warning that the policy had no cash 
in value at any time.
Mr G completed the Options Selection Form and the Enhanced Lifetime Annuity application 
form on 15 September 2018 and returned them to CLL. In the first of these forms, he ticked 
the box selecting option 1, for the three-year income. But he also selected option 2b, the 
Enhanced Annuity with Canada Life. He also completed the application form for the 
enhanced lifetime income policy. 
The Options Selection Form required Mr G to manually enter the reference number that 
applied to the Personal Example hed chosen. Mr G wrote the reference number that applied 
to the enhanced lifetime annuity Personal Example in both the options hed selected. 
The Enhanced Lifetime Annuity form Mr G completed contained a section for Death Benefits. 
Mr G completed this section with the details of his wife. Mr G signed the declaration on this 
form on 15 September 2018.
CLL wrote to Mr G on 18 September 2018 to confirm the start of his enhanced annuity. It 
also enclosed a policy schedule which stated that the policy couldnt be changed. The table 
of benefits on the schedule showed there was no second annuity.
Mr G wrote to CLL on 31 January 2021 to ask it to send him an investment statement. It told 
him that his AGA was no longer active because hed transferred it into an enhanced lifetime 
annuity. Mr G asked for clarification on this. CLL confirmed that his payments hadnt 
stopped. And explained what had happened.
Mr G raised further questions with CLL on 27 August 2021. He wanted to know what would 
happen when he died, for example, would his nominated person carry on receiving the 
income. And what was the current cash value. 
CLL replied to Mr G on 5 September 2021. It said this his policy didnt include a second 
annuitant benefit, so all payments would end when he died. It also said that Mr G had signed 
the application for the annuity on the understanding that it couldnt be cashed in or 
cancelled. It said that an annuity wasnt an investment, but a product that guaranteed an 
income for the rest of Mr Gs life. And that the lump sum used to purchase an annuity 
ceased to be an investment at the point of sale.
Mr G again asked CLL why he wasnt receiving regular investment statements. He 
complained to CLL on 19 November 2021. He felt that he hadnt given permission for the 
Investment Element of his AGA to be used to purchase a lifetime annuity. He wanted to 
know how much money was left in his account. CLL replied on the same day to Mr G. It said that the policy had previously allowed it to send 
Mr G statements as it had been invested in funds. But that it had matured in September 
2018, with the proceeds being used to buy Mr Gs enhanced lifetime annuity. It said there 
was no Investment Element in such annuities, so no investments statements were required. 
CLL issued its final response to the complaint on 24 November 2021. It said that Mr G no 
longer held an Investment Element, just a single life annuity which would pay an income to 
him for his lifetime. And which would end when he died. As such, his policy didnt hold a 
value. 
CLL also said that it had recommended that Mr G used a financial adviser when purchasing 
a policy. And said that its notes showed hed had a financial adviser when hed purchased 
the AGA in 2007. It said that the financial adviser was responsible for any advice that was 
received in connection with that purchase. And therefore responsible for investigating the 
concerns hed raised in relation to this. It said it had passed details of the complaint on to the 
named financial advisers.
Mr G asked CLL further questions on 1 December 2021. He wanted to know how it had 
decided how much income he should get from his enhanced lifetime annuity.
CLL replied on 9 December 2021. It said that it had taken into account the medical 
information Mr G had provided so that it could provide him with the best annuity income 
available. It said that the income calculation had been based on a number of factors 
including the medical information provided to it and the annuity rates at the time the policy 
was set up.
Mr G was still unhappy. So he wrote to CLL again on 13 December 2021. He felt that the 
annuity it paid him was unfair. And that it didnt seem to take full account of his medical 
conditions. He said his doctors had told him that he had between eight and 10 years to live. 
So questioned why he was only receiving £2,452.32 a year. 
Mr G also said that he was single when hed set up the policy. But felt that that didnt mean 
that he couldnt get married again  he said he had in fact remarried. Mr G felt that CLL 
should give him at least another £1,000 each year added to his policy. 
CLL replied to Mr G on 16 December 2021. It said it couldnt provide further details of how 
his annuity income had been calculated as it was such a complex calculation. But it 
confirmed again that the calculation had taken into account the medical information hed 
provided, as well as a number of factors including the annuity rates at the time.
CLL also said that Mr G had chosen a single life annuity which would pay for his lifetime only 
as he hadnt selected a spouses benefit or guarantee when the policy was set up. It said 
that he could only have chosen such option at the start of the policy. 
Mr G said itd never crossed his mind that when he died all his money will be kept by CLL. 
He also asked CLL to tell him how much extra itd given him because of his medical 
conditions. 
CLL replied to Mr G on 22 December 2021. It said that although Mr G had completed the 
nominated beneficiary section of the Enhanced Annuity application form, the annuity benefits 
hed chosen didnt include a guarantee to pay a beneficiary. It said it had set up the policy on 
the basis that Mr G had selected. 
CLL also said that Mr G had been given 28 days to change his mind after hed chosen the 
annuity. Unhappy with CLLs response, Mr G brought his complaint to this service on 7 February 
2022. He said that although he was aware that payments from his enhanced annuity would 
stop when he died, it didnt say what would happen to the remainder of his money. He also 
felt that CLL was paying him too little each month given his medical conditions. Mr G said 
that even if he lived for ten years after buying the annuity, he wouldnt receive full value from 
his investment. He said in that case there would still be a balance of £10,543.01. And that 
this should be left to his wife.
Our investigator didnt consider that CLL had done anything wrong. So didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator. He still didnt think CLL had given him enough of an 
enhancement if it had fairly taken all the medications and operations hed had into account. 
He said his doctors said he only had between eight and 10 years to live. So he felt that the 
maximum he could be paid from the annuity was 10 X £2,452.32. And that if this amount 
was paid, CLL would still have over £10,000 of his money. So he asked for a further £1,000 
a year to be added to his annuity. Mr G also didnt think CLL had explained how itd 
calculated the amount it was paying him. 
Mr G also still wanted to know what CLL had done with his money and where it was now 
being kept. He also felt that the enhanced annuity form hed completed had death benefits in 
it. He didnt think it was fair that the annuity couldnt be changed.
Our investigator explained what an annuity was. And how the terms of the annuity were 
calculated by insurance companies. She said that the terms had been set out, and Mr G had 
agreed to them in September 2018. She also said that the terms werent reviewable and 
couldnt be altered. She was still satisfied that CLL had done nothing wrong. 
A new investigator took over this complaint on 8 November 2022. He further explained to Mr 
G how annuity products work across the insurance industry. And said that, although he 
understood Mr Gs frustration, the annuity hed chosen was indeed fixed for the rest of his 
life. He said that this was how all annuities worked. And that it had been made clear to Mr G 
in the documentation hed been sent at the time. He also said that the annuity rates offered 
were a matter for a businesss own commercial judgement. And that as they were based on 
sensitive business information, such as previous claims history, we couldnt ask CLL to 
provide any further details than it already had. He also said that Mr G couldve looked 
elsewhere if he hadnt been happy with the annuity rates on offer. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it, for largely the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know my decision will be very disappointing to Mr G. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Ill cover each of Mr Gs complaint points in my decision. Ill first consider if CLL has been 
paying Mr G the correct enhanced annuity based on the medical information he provided 
and its underwriting criteria. And if it has taken reasonable steps to explain how itd 
calculated the amount it was paying him. 
Is the enhanced annuity correct?Mr G felt that CLL was paying him too little each month given his medical conditions. He said 
that even if he lived for ten years after buying the annuity, he wouldnt receive full value from 
his investment. He felt any money left over should be given to his wife. He also considers 
that CLL hasnt properly explained to him how it calculated his annuity income.
From the evidence CLL has provided, Im satisfied that it fairly and reasonably followed its 
underwriting process when pricing Mr Gs policy. CLLs underwriting department decided 
that Mr G qualified for an enhanced annuity. And calculated on what basis this could be 
offered. This was then sent to Mr G as a Personal Example as part of the review process. 
As our investigator noted, the way that annuity providers assess and calculate enhanced 
terms is commercially sensitive. So Im satisfied that CLL acted fairly when it told Mr G that it 
couldnt tell him in detail how it had calculated his enhanced annuity. I consider that CLL 
took reasonable steps to explain its calculation to Mr G under the circumstances.
Mr G chose the enhanced annuity option knowing what he would receive. And even though 
he had other options. 
Ive seen no evidence that CLL made a mistake when it calculated the enhanced annuity. So 
I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
I also considered the other complaint points Mr G has made.
Other complaint points
Mr G also wanted to know what CLL had done with his money and where it was now being 
kept. He felt that the enhanced annuity form hed completed had death benefits in it. And he 
didnt think it was fair that the annuity couldnt be changed.
CLL has already explained on several occasions that Mr G no longer holds an Investment 
Element. It said that although the policy had previously been invested in funds, these were 
used to buy Mr Gs enhanced lifetime annuity in September 2018. 
Mr Gs policy was always an annuity, although the level of income to be paid would be 
reviewed at periodic intervals. This meant that, although the policy showed an Investment 
Element, this was so that the three-yearly income figure could be derived. The policys 
documentation was clear that it had no cash in value at any time. 
CLL effectively converted Mr Gs money into the annuity he selected in September 2018. So 
his money was used to buy the annuity, as it wouldve been if hed taken the option to go to 
another annuity provider. Therefore Mr G has no further money with CLL. And it isnt keeping 
any money for him anywhere. From what Ive seen, this is exactly what shouldve happened. 
And CLL hasnt done anything wrong.
I can see that Mr G completed the Death Benefits section on his 15 September 2018 
enhanced lifetime annuity application form. He filled in his wifes details. But the option hed 
chosen didnt have any death benefits. And this section clearly stated that it should only be 
completed in those cases where it did. It said:
This section must be completed where you have selected a guarantee period. 
As Mr G hadnt selected a guarantee period, he didnt need to complete this section. There 
were no potential death benefits under the policy hed chosen. So, although I understand that Mr G thinks that death benefits should be due, as he filled in 
this section, the policy he chose doesnt have any death benefits. So none are payable. And 
CLL hasnt done anything wrong here.
Mr G also thinks its unfair that his annuity cant be changed, despite his circumstances 
changing. Hes now married, and wanted to leave something to his wife. CLL said that Mr G 
had been given 28 days to change his mind after hed chosen the annuity. But that he didnt. 
Mr G also signed the declaration on the enhanced lifetime annuity form. This stated:
I hereby apply to Canada Life to provide me with a policy based on the features I have 
chosen in Personal Example reference number G715516B1
1. That Canada Life will set up a new policy for the purposes of paying the income to 
me which cannot be cancelled, or exchanged for a lump sum payment or any other 
benefits. 
This shows that the policy Mr G had selected couldnt be cancelled or exchanged.
From what Ive seen, CLL fairly and reasonably explained how the policy worked. Mr G 
himself selected a single life enhanced annuity with no guarantee. And as Im satisfied that 
the documents CLL provided were clear that the policy couldnt be changed unless it was 
changed within 28 days, Im not persuaded that CLL did anything wrong here.
Mr G also felt that the documentation wasnt clear about what would happen to the payments 
from his enhanced annuity when he died. So I next considered if it was clear on this point.
Was the documentation clear about what would happen to payments from the enhanced 
annuity when Mr G died?
Mr G said that although he was aware that payments from his enhanced annuity would stop 
when he died, CLL hadnt made it clear what would happen to the rest of his money.
As I noted above, as Mr G bought a single life annuity with no guarantees, there would be no 
other money after he died. All his money had been used to purchase the annuity he chose. 
But I considered if the documentation was clear on the complaint point Mr G has raised.
The enhanced annuity application form clearly stated that the Death benefits section only 
needed to be completed if a guarantee period had been selected. As Mr G hadnt selected a 
guarantee period, I think he shouldve realised no death benefits were available. I say this 
because he also chose a single life policy, and he has confirmed he knew this meant that 
payments from his enhanced annuity would stop when he died. Overall, I consider that the 
documentation was clear on this point.
 I dont uphold the complaint. And I dont require CLL to take any action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Jo OccleshawOmbudsman