DRN-3692003
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the delays caused by Phoenix Life Limited when he was
transferring his personal pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with another
provider. He also believes that Phoenix Life Limited should have transferred £85,405 that he
had been quoted rather than the lower figure actually transferred.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 22 August 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it in part were 
set out in that decision. I have copied the relevant parts of it below and it forms part of this 
final decision.
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of the
complaint to both parties setting out the background and circumstances of the complaint. I
havent repeated it all here, but in brief, Mr A submitted a retirement pack request to Phoenix
Life on 12 October 2019. The retirement pack was sent out to him a few days later. It
showed a value for the pension of £78,846. There was further correspondence exchanged
between Mr A, his financial advisers, and Phoenix Life through December to March 2020.
This included further updated values for the pension of £79,447, £79,310, and £79,110 in
January, February, and March 2020 respectively.
Phoenix Life sent Mr As financial advisers another retirement pack on 5 May 2020. The
pension was valued at £79,107. Mr A complained to Phoenix Life about the time taken to
complete the transfer.
On 13 May 2020 Phoenix Life sent a letter to Mr A quoting the transfer value as £85,405. On
14 May 2020, Phoenix Life received the completed discharge form and pension advice
declaration. Mr A raised another complaint on this date as he couldnt open an e-mail sent to
him by Phoenix Life.
Phoenix Life sent Mr A another retirement quote on 16 May 2020. His pension was valued at
£79,110.78.
Phoenix Life received the completed pension transfer request form on 20 May 2020. It sent
Mr A a letter saying his pension transfer was completed on 1 June 2020. An amount of
£79,117.26 was transferred.
Mr As financial advisers made a complaint to Phoenix Life on Mr As behalf on 4 June 2020.
Phoenix Life partially upheld the complaint. It didnt think it was responsible for the delays in
the transfer. However it acknowledged the inconvenience caused to Mr A by the e-mail it
had sent to him which he couldnt open. It also said the quote it had given him of £85,405
wasnt guaranteed and so it wasnt bound to honour that amount. It offered Mr A £75 for the
inconvenience caused by him being unable to open the e-mail.
Phoenix Life subsequently wrote to Mr A again on 25 June 2020 explaining that the £85,405
figure quoted had been due to a system error. And it wrote to him again on 16 December
2020 explaining that it had underpaid the transfer value by £235.66, and so this would be
transferred to the new provider.
Mr A didnt agree with Phoenix Lifes findings and referred the complaint to us. Our
investigator considered the sequence and timings of the events leading up to the transfer
value being paid. He thought Phoenix Life had acted on correspondence it had received in a
timely manner, and hadnt caused delays in the processing of the transfer.
He thought Phoenix Life had checked the correct value of the transfer with its actuaries and
was satisfied that the value of £85,405 quoted had been a system error. He noted that the
value transferred had been in line with the other figures that had been quoted to Mr A and he
thought the sharp increase to £85,405 seemed like an anomaly. He said as this figure wasnt
the true value of Mr As pension, he didnt think Phoenix Life was obliged to honour it.
Overall the investigator didnt think that Phoenix Life had caused any delays in completing
the transfer. And he thought the value transferred had, (ultimately) been correct. The
investigator thought the £75 Phoenix Life had offered Mr A as compensation for the
frustration caused by being unable to open the email was fair given the impact it would likely
have had on Mr A.
As the parties couldnt come to an agreement, Mr As complaint has been passed to me to
decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely the
same reasons about the merits of the complaint. However Ive come to a slightly different
conclusion about whats fair compensation.
An error or omission by a firm doesnt, in itself, create an entitlement to compensation. What
needs to be decided is whether that error caused a financial loss or any material distress or
inconvenience to the complainant.
I note that the transfer discharge form that was signed by Mr A and was dated 13 May 2020
said:
I authorise Phoenix Life Limited to transfer the sum of and a line was put through the
amount in print (the figure isnt clear but appears to end 949 .11  and isnt the £85,405.04).
An amount of £79,107.08 was handwritten onto the form. This was signed by Mr As adviser.
There is also a copy of the advisers With Compliments slip which I understand would have
been sent with the relevant paperwork. There was a handwritten note saying:
Please note the amount of Transfer on Transfer Discharge form is £79,107.08. Please
effect transfer immediately. In brackets it said (Client completed an earlier transfer form).
The investigator will provide copies of any of the above documents to Mr A on request if he
hasnt previously seen them.
This £79,107.08 figure is consistent with the value provided in the retirement pack
sent out by Phoenix Life on 5 May 2020. This form was received by Phoenix Life Limited on
14 May 2020. A letter dated 1 June 2020 was sent to Mr A saying the value transferred hadbeen £79,117.26. Again this is similar to the value quoted on 5 May 2020.
The date on the discharge form was 13 May 2020. Its possible the 13 was altered, and that
Mr A had actually signed it earlier and the date had been amended. However, I think whats
relevant is that it appears Mr A had agreed to the transfer of his pension based on the lower
value and accepted a value of approximately £79,107. And that this was likely before he
received the letter dated 13 May 2020 (by post) from the firm quoting a value of £85,405. I
dont think Mr A or the adviser would have signed the form quoting the £79,107 transfer
value if Mr A had understood the value was £85,405 at the time of signing.
So I dont think it follows that Mr A specifically decided to transfer because he understood
the transfer value was around the higher figure of £85,405. In other words, I dont think the
incorrect transfer value affected his decision to transfer, or that he would likely have made a
different decision about the transfer had the firm not provided him with an incorrect figure.
Mr A was invested in a with profits plan, and given the structure of the plan its value wasnt
subject to the same fluctuations as direct investments in equities. In my view, the actual
value transferred was consistent with all the other transfer value figures that Mr A had been
provided with over a several month period, and Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the
higher value was the correct one.
So on the one hand, I dont think Mr A was entitled to the higher transfer value of £85,405.
And I dont think he was misled into making a decision that he would otherwise not have
made.
However on the other, I accept that, even after the transfer was being processed, on
receiving the higher transfer value Mr As expectations would have risen. Mr A has said that
letters sent by post from Phoenix Life often took several days to arrive. But even on this
basis, there was only a relatively short period of time where Mr A would have expected to
receive the higher transfer value before he was alerted to the error.
So in my view Mr As loss is one of expectation - he was led to believe hed receive a higher
transfer value and understood this to be the case for a few days, even though in reality this
wasnt the case.
I also think by initially telling Mr A that the change in the quote was because it wasnt
guaranteed (rather than it being a system error) would have added to Mr As mistrust in
Phoenix Life. And this mistrust added too further when it subsequently told Mr A that the
original transfer value had been underpaid by £235.
So in summary, although I think Phoenix Life did make a genuine error in quoting the higher
transfer value, I think this caused a loss of expectation to Mr A as he wasnt entitled to that
higher value. And he hadnt based his decision to transfer on it. However I do think the error
caused a degree of distress and inconvenience to Mr A, which was exacerbated by its
subsequent explanation and underpayment. In my view the e-mail episode may have caused
a degree of inconvenience but, in itself, I think this would have been limited.
Taking all the above into account, Im intending on awarding Mr A £300 for the distress and
inconvenience reasonably caused by all of the above.
Accordingly, I said my provisional decision was to uphold Mr As complaint in part, and I 
intended to award him £300.
I asked Mr A and Phoenix Life to send me any further evidence or arguments that they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr A didnt accept my provisional decision. In brief, he referred back to his previous 
submissions and re-iterated his sense of exasperation with Phoenix. He said he understood 
that the principles of good complaint handling were to provide fair and proportionate 
remedies to put things right, and to compensate complainants in a customer focussed 
manner. He said Phoenix hadnt engaged with him leading to a long drawn out process. 
Mr A said hed had no meaningful apology or explanation. He said hed been given 
conflicting excuses for the lower transfer value which he had been given both verbally and 
confirmed in writing, and which he relied on. He provided another example of Phoenixs late 
and poor service. He didnt think the compensation offered by the investigator was fair or 
enough at all. 
Phoenix Life said it accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision as above. 
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision, I dont think Mr A made his decision to 
transfer because he understood the transfer value was around the higher figure of £85,405. I 
dont think he would likely have made a different decision about the transfer had the firm not 
provided him with an incorrect figure.
Im not persuaded the £85,405 was the correct figure. It was materially inconsistent with all 
the other values that Mr A had been given. And Im satisfied that Mr A received the transfer 
value he was entitled to  ultimately; albeit that the additional payment of £235 led to further 
suspicion on Mr As part. 
I accept that Mr A was given conflicting information, in particular about the reasons for the 
change in value. But as I said in my provisional decision, although Phoenix Life made an 
error in quoting the higher transfer value, I think this caused a loss of expectation to Mr A as 
he wasnt entitled to that higher value. But that the firms actions  its error, and then in how 
it dealt with the error which exacerbated the situation, caused distress and inconvenience to 
Mr A.
Mr A has said that he doesnt think the compensation fair or enough at all. He referred to the 
investigator and £100, so its not entirely clear to me whether he meant the £300 I said I was 
minded to award in my provisional decision. 
But in any event, I think the £300 I said I was intending to award is fair in all the 
circumstances, and consistent with the awards we make on other cases that are similar in 
nature.Putting things right
Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mr A £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint in part. I order Phoenix Life Limited to pay 
Mr A compensation as I have set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman