DRN-3185841
The complaint
Mr M complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds handling of his private medical insurance 
claim.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr M took out an individual policy with BUPA. Prior to that, Mr M had been 
covered under his employers group private medical insurance scheme, also with BUPA. 
On 28 October 2020, Mr M asked BUPA to authorise a consultation with a specialist. BUPA 
told Mr M his GP would need to complete a history and onset form. The form was sent out 
by BUPA on 2 November 2020.
BUPA authorised the consultation on 8 December 2020. Mr M was unhappy with the length 
of time this took. He also didnt think BUPA needed to ask his GP for information, since hed 
previously been covered with BUPA under the group scheme.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought BUPA had been 
entitled to ask for information before accepting the claim, and didnt think BUPA had caused 
delays.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M says that because he was previously covered by BUPA under the group 
scheme, BUPA could easily see that he hadnt previously claimed for that condition. 
However, a persons claims history is unlikely to reflect their medical records held 
with their GP.  
BUPAs explained that Mr Ms policy was taken out on a fully underwritten basis and, 
as the claim was made within 12 months of the policy start date, it required the 
history and onset form to be completed by his GP.  Im satisfied that BUPA was 
entitled to ask Mr Ms GP for this information, and the policy terms allow it to do so.
BUPA accepts that its customer service couldve been better. As its staff members 
were working from home, it took Mr M several phone calls to register his claim. Also, 
the history and onset form shouldve been emailed to Mr M the same day, but he 
received it five days later. BUPA paid Mr M £100 compensation by way of apology for 
these issues, which I think was reasonable.
Mr M says that his GP surgery provided BUPA with the requested information on two 
occasions. I understand this was sent by post. However, BUPA doesnt have any 
record of receiving this. As such, I cant conclude that BUPA caused unnecessary 
delays here. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that BUPA has paid fair 
compensation for its errors. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman