DRN-3518556
The complaint
Mr A complains about the amount of compensation Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y 
Reaseguros (Ocaso) has awarded to recognise service failings following a claim on his 
buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Ocaso includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, I will summarise the key points I have focused on within my 
decision.
In March 2020, Mr A had a complaint that was considered by our service regarding the 
handling of his building insurance claim made in January 2018. An ombudsman issued a 
final decision and awarded £2100 compensation.
Whilst that complaint was being considered at this service. In June 2021 Mr A raised this 
complaint with our service. He complained that in March 2021 Ocasos agent had 
misled/misinformed Mr A. Mr A referred to telephone conversations he had with a couple of 
its case handlers. And said he believed regardless of the outcome of his previous complaint 
considered by our service, he would receive further compensation from Ocasos agent. Mr A 
says he accepted the final decision made by this service on his first complaint on this basis. 
Ocasos agent responded to Mr As second complaint and offered £50 compensation. Mr A 
felt this was disproportionate to the misleading advice received and requested £350 
compensation. He also mentioned his complaint was not addressed in the eight-week 
period.
The complaint was escalated to Ocaso and in September 2021, Ocaso responded to Mr As 
complaint. It said it was not the service it wanted its customers to endure. It apologised for 
the distress and inconvenience caused and offered £350 compensation.
Mr A responded, requesting compensation of £1,800.
Our Investigator did not uphold the complaint she said the £350 compensation Ocaso had 
offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr A disagreed and requested an 
ombudsmans decision. So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within this complaint I am considering the loss of expectation following the contact between 
Mr A and Ocasos agent. It is not referring to any compensation amount that Ocasos agent 
might have been referring to. I will also not be reconsidering the complaint that had a final 
decision issued on 16 July 2021. 
I have listened and reviewed the call notes Mr A referred to in his complaint. During one of 
the calls, Mr As open complaint was being discussed. The case handler said this would be 
considered when the claim was finalised. Mr A asked the case handler if he would need to 
go back through this service or could he sort it directly with them. In summary he was told 
they were aware that he had already raised a complaint with this service so that was already 
set-up, but they would hope they could sort it out themselves. She also said a timeline would 
be drawn up with a view to looking at why the claim did not go as planned and what 
compensation could be offered. 
I am persuaded that this gave an impression and expectation that compensation would be 
offered by Ocasos agent.
Mr A says he has been financially affected by the misinformation because he thought he 
would receive compensation from Ocasos agent in addition to the amount our service 
awarded. Mr A says Ocasos agent gave false promises and misleading information to get 
him to agree to the compensation amount offered by our service. He has said the stress has 
been immense. He was also unhappy as he had to wait more than eight weeks to receive a 
response to his complaint.
From what I have seen Mr A had a discussion in March 2021 with Ocasos agent that was 
handling his complaint. During this telephone call Mr A was told additional compensation had 
not been agreed to be paid. When Mr A persisted that it owed him more compensation, the 
case handler confirmed it had agreed to review Mr As complaint at the end of the claim, 
provided that he did not come to this service during that period. But because Mr A had 
escalated his complaint to Ocaso and this service it could no longer look at this. 
I can see the ombudsman issued their provisional decision in June 2021 with the final 
decision being issued in July 2021. So, Mr A was already aware at this stage that Ocasos 
agent was not offering further compensation for the handling of his claim on his building 
insurance policy. So, I am not persuaded the misinformation influenced Mr As decision 
about whether to accept the ombudsmans decision. 
I can understand that Mr As hopes were raised when he had discussed in the earlier calls 
about compensation and I am satisfied that Ocasos agent did cause a loss of expectation 
which impacted Mr A health causing him stress. Also, the delay in responding to Mr As 
complaint would have exacerbated this. However, I am pleased to see that Ocaso changed 
its mind from the nominal £50 it offered for the service received by Mr A to £350. This offer is 
in line with what I would have directed it to have done if it had not made the offer. I am 
therefore satisfied that the £350 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint 
and I will not be asking Ocaso to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman