DRN-3251775
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mr M took out in 2018 on the 
advice of HUB Financial Solutions Limited. The complaint is that the lifetime mortgage was 
mis-sold. 
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr M took the mortgage out in 2018. The terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly 
repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be repaid if the 
borrower goes into full-time nursing care or after their death. It can be repaid voluntarily 
before either of those events have happened, but then an early repayment charge (ERC) is 
usually payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
I summarise below the main reasons given in the initial complaint to HUB for believing that 
the mortgage had been mis-sold:
The interest rate was too high, and the compounding effect of it wasnt explained; and
Mr M told HUB he wanted to reduce the loan before it completed, but ended up with the 
full amount anyway.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr M asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether HUB did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to any 
hindsight that the intervening years might have brought.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation. The value of such documents is 
that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the 
relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be 
recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a 
distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, 
well generally attach some weight to it.
The information-gathering exercise identified various specific financial objectives, all of which 
Mr M apparently wanted to carry out immediately the money became available. By 
proceeding with the application, Mr M signed to confirm the information given about his 
personal circumstances and spending plans to be true and accurate at the time. 
It's not disputed that Mr M had second thoughts about the amount of the loan prior to 
completion, and clearly he did ask about borrowing less. But the contact notes from the time 
show that after further consideration and discussion with his family, as well as the 
independent law firm advising him on the legal implications of the proposed mortgage, Mr M 
decided to go ahead with borrowing the original amount applied for.
Its possible that after the mortgage had gone through, Mr M changed his mind again about 
what hed do with some or all of the money, but HUBs duty was to give suitable advice, 
which Im satisfied it did. HUB couldnt insist Mr M follow every aspect of the advice it had 
given him. Nor was it obliged to monitor his behaviour after the sale to ensure he did what 
hed said he was going to do with the money hed borrowed.
Mr M says hes tried to pay some of the money back and has been refused. Thats not a 
matter for HUB; its something for Mr M to take up with his lender. If hes not happy with how 
his lender is operating the mortgage, he can complain about that, separately from his 
complaint about how HUB arranged the mortgage. 
That brings me to the interest rate. Having no regulatory function means its not my role to 
decide if a particular interest rate is fair or not. So I can only comment in general terms. Its 
normal for interest to roll up on a lifetime equity release mortgage, and then to attract further 
interest on a compounding basis. 
The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary terms in the point-of-sale material. Ive seen 
the formal offer for the mortgage; it uses an assumption that the mortgage will last for 15 
years, but it includes a narrative pointing out this assumption and reminding the reader of the 
lifetime nature of the mortgage. 
The rate charged is 4.50% fixed for the duration of the mortgage, and that is also set out in 
the offer. I cant know, and wont speculate on, how closely Mr M studied the offer, or how much of the information it contained he assimilated; but the information was set out in a 
manner prescribed by the FCA. 
The use of fixed rather than variable rates has always been normal on equity release 
mortgages, as they enable a lender to forecast the likely growth in the debt over time as the 
interest rolls up. Thats important to the lender, from a risk assessment point of view when 
deciding how much to lend. But it also gives a degree of clarity to the borrower about how 
their debt will grow over time, because that forecast can be incorporated into the mortgage 
offer, as it was in this case. 
Overall then, I cant agree with Mr M when he says HUB didnt tell him in advance what his 
interest rate would be or how the compounding effect would increase his balance over time.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman