DRN-3850468
The complaint
Mr D complains that he couldnt use his bank account when he switched his account from 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
In the late evening of 1 March 2022, Mr D requested that his current account was switched 
from Halifax to another bank. The switch process started on 2 March 2022 and was 
completed on 9 March 2022. Mr D tried to make an online payment to a new beneficiary for 
£25 on 2 March 2022  it was declined. There were other payments successfully made to an 
existing beneficiary  on 3 March 2022.
Mr D complained. He said that under the terms of the seven-day switching process, he 
should have had full functionality of his account up to the time of the switch  i.e. 9 March 
2022. He told us he wanted to make a payment to a charity for £25 - he felt strongly about its 
cause. He said he didnt have access to mobile or online banking during the switching 
period.  He also said that Halifaxs complaints process was poor  he had waited for an hour 
on the phone to log his complaint.
Halifax said they couldnt set up a new beneficiary within seven days of completing the 
switch. Halifax apologised for the fact that there had been a problem in setting up his 
complaint  as it was initially cancelled in error. For that, they paid compensation of £40.
Mr D brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Halifax acted reasonably; and had 
dealt with his complaint effectively.
Mr D didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. Therefore, it has 
come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ds complaint is:
- He didnt have access to mobile banking during the switching period.
- He couldnt make payments to a new beneficiary during the switching period.
- This was in contravention of the agreed seven day switching arrangements.
- He said the Halifaxs complaints process was poor  he waited for over an hour on 
the phone to log his complaint on 2 March 2022. This was inconvenient and time 
wasting.
I looked at each issue; and asked Halifax for more information about what happened:
Mobile banking: I can see that Mr D logged onto mobile banking 28 times between 2 March 
2022 and 9 March 2022. So  he did have access to mobile banking during the switching 
period.
Payments: I can see that he made three online payments to an existing beneficiary for £1; 
£7.50; and £25 on 3 March 2022. So  payments to existing payees were completed OK.
This brings me to the crux of Mr Ds complaint  he couldnt make a payment to a new 
beneficiary. I can see he tried to make a payment for £25 to a new payee on 2 March 2022. 
This was unsuccessful. Mr D says this was against the terms of the seven-day switching 
agreement. He showed us the terms of this  the current account switching guarantee - 
which I looked at. 
But this says that new beneficiaries cannot be set up during the switching period. The Q and 
A says : Q: Will the Current Account Switch Service (CASS) automatically transfer new 
payment arrangements if I set then up at my old bank within 7 working days of the switch 
date agreed with my new bank? A: No. The CASS will take care of all payment 
arrangements at your old bank up until 7 working days before your agreed switch date. If you 
want to set up new payment arrangements during the 7 working day period leading up to 
your switch date you must do this on your new account. So  this is clear  new payees 
cannot be set up, either for one-off payments or for regular payments during the switching 
period. Thinking about the practicalities of the seven-day switching process - this also makes 
sense: as Halifax had to gather up the data relating to Mr Ds payments and send them to 
his new bank. So  any new payments cant be captured to do that. So  Halifax acted 
reasonably and declined the payment instruction to the new beneficiary.
It's also fair to say  that Mr D couldve made the payment from his new bank account after 9 
March 2022  just a few days later. So Im not persuaded that there couldve been any loss 
or inconvenience because of the delay.
Halifaxs complaints process: I listened to all of Mr Ds calls with Halifax between 2 March 
2022 and 9 March 2022. I agree that one of the calls - on 2 March 2022 was handled badly  
as the call handler kept Mr D waiting for an hour to log his complaint. But I also then listened 
to the next call which took place later that day. Halifax then listened to the earlier call, 
apologised, and paid compensation of £83  which was credited to Mr Ds Halifax account 
that day. He agreed with that resolution and the complaint was closed. Halifax later 
apologised for closing his complaint about the switching process in error and paid a further 
£40 compensation. So - having considered what happened, I think Halifax resolved these 
aspects of Mr Ds complaint satisfactorily.
Therefore, in summary, I think Halifax acted reasonably here. Looking at Mr Ds emails to us 
and having listened to his calls, I know he feels strongly about his complaint  but Im not 
going to ask Halifax to do anymore here. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Martin LordOmbudsman