DRN-3248096
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Atlanta1 Insurance Services Limited, trading as Autonet Insurance 
Group (Autonet) didnt assist following discovery of an error on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr N took out motor insurance cover in April 2020 through a price comparison website. 
Autonet acted as an intermediary between Mr N and the insurance underwriter in taking out 
a motor insurance policy. In March 2021, Mr N was stopped by the police as theyd identified 
the car as being driven without valid insurance. This happened because the registration 
number on the insurance policy was incorrect by one digit. As a result, the police read Mr Ns 
rights and the car was impounded. Mr N considered this unpleasant experience to be due to 
Autonets error and he made a complaint to Autonet. 
Autonet didnt agree with Mr N and didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr N had entered 
the registration number manually on the comparison website when he was seeking 
insurance cover and that the policy was approved using the details entered online. Autonet 
contacted the underwriter and it provided a letter of indemnity to confirm that cover was in 
place on the vehicle and accepted it was a genuine, unintentional error. It also issued 
revised documents to Mr N with the correct registration number included to enable Mr N to 
secure the release of his vehicle.
Mr N then referred his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Autonets response. 
He wanted Autonet to cover the £170 he had to pay to retrieve his car after it was 
impounded. He also wanted it to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Our investigator noted that something clearly did go wrong, and the policy was set up using 
the incorrect registration details. She didnt think that Autonet had acted in an unfair or 
unreasonable manner however in setting up the policy, and didnt think that the onus was on 
Autonet to review the details and make sure they were correct. She appreciated that Mr N 
didnt notice the error until after hed been stopped by the police, however she thought this 
wasnt something she could fairly hold Autonet responsible for.
Mr N remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and the matter has been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question for me to decide is whether Autonet acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with 
Mr Ns concerns in the context of the distressing events which Mr N experienced in March 
2021. Ive concluded that it did. Ill explain why.
In deciding whether Autonet acted fairly and reasonably, I must carefully consider the 
relevant documents. Autonets terms of business under paragraph 13, headed Your 
Responsibilities state:
You are responsible for providing the complete and accurate information which insurers 
require in connection with any proposal for insurance cover. This is particularly important 
before taking out a policy and at renewal, but it also applies throughout the life of a policy. 
Please take reasonable care to answer all the questions honestly and to the best of your 
knowledge. If you don't or misrepresent any fact which may influence the insurer`s decision 
to accept the risk or the terms offered, your policy may be cancelled, or treated as if it never 
existed, or your claim rejected or not fully paid.
The welcome letter to Mr N included the following: -
It is important that you check the enclosed statement of fact/proposal form very carefully 
and let us know if any of these details are incorrect. Incorrect information could result in your 
policy being cancelled at a later date, a claim being rejected or not paid in full, or your policy 
being declared void.
The statement of facts also included the following:
The following details directly affect your insurance. Please check them carefully and inform
Atlanta1 Ins Services Ltd if any of the information provided is incorrect or has changed.
Autonet said that it contacted the price comparison website company which said that Mr N 
had entered the car make, model and registration number manually when he obtained his 
quote. Autonet stated that it therefore acted on the information which Mr N provided and 
didnt consider it had made an error when setting up Mr Neves policy. 
Autinet also said it had provided Mr N with full documentation and had requested that he 
check to make sure that all of the information was correct:- As we acted on the information 
which you provided and have sent you documentation confirming the details we held on your 
policy I have been unable to identify that we have acted incorrectly, and I have therefore 
been unable to uphold your complaint. Due to this we are unable to cover the costs you have 
incurred due to your vehicle being impounded or offer any compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr N explained how the police had read his rights and treated him like a criminal for driving 
without insurance. He felt that the error was that of Autonet by arranging insurance under an 
incorrect registration. Mr N didnt think it was possible to enter the registration number 
incorrectly online, particularly as the incorrect number belonged to a car of a different make. 
He said that despite the wrong registration being entered, the documents showed the correct 
car and the premium was paid every month.
Mr N said that the Autonet representative had agreed on the phone that, as the consumer 
has to confirm his registration number, that the error must have been some glitch in their 
system. He also queried the wording of the indemnity letter, as it stated that an error had 
been made at the point of inception and that it was not clear when or by whom. Mr N said 
that the representative had reassured him that he would be left 'in the same financial 
position' as before the incident. He said that now they are backtracking.
Having looked at all the evidence relating to this matter, Im satisfied on the balance of 
probabilities that Autonet arranged Mr Ns policy based on information that was provided to 
it. The comparison website company confirmed in writing that Mr N had according to its 
records entered the car details manually.Once documents were issued, Autinets terms and conditions do also make it clear that it 
was Mr Ns responsibility to make sure that the information provided was correct. They also 
made it clear that this was an important matter. Mr N therefore did have an opportunity and 
obligation to check and correct details if necessary. 
In the circumstances a range of documents, including the welcome letter, statement of facts, 
certificate of insurance and the policy schedule, all made it very clear that it was Mr Ns 
responsibility to make sure that all his details were correct and accurate. I agree with our 
investigator that it would have been reasonable to have expected Mr N to have checked 
these documents, particularly as the incident didnt occur until eleven months into the policy 
term.
In conclusion, I cant say that Autonet acted unfairly or unreasonably in setting up the policy. 
Im also satisfied that Autonet acted fairly and reasonably in contacting Mr Ns underwriter 
and ensuring that a letter of indemnity and amended policy was sent to Mr N rapidly. I also 
note that as soon as the error was discovered, Autonet amended the policy, so I think 
Autonet acted fairly and reasonably in responding to and dealing with the issue.
I appreciate that being stopped by the police and having his car impounded must have been 
an extremely distressing experience for Mr N and I sympathise with him. I cannot however 
place the responsibility for this event at Autonets door. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ns complaint and I dont require 
Atlanta1 Insurance Services Limited to do anything else in this regard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman