DRN-3017799
The complaint
Ms W, acting on behalf of her late mother, Mrs Hs estate, is unhappy that Quickly Finance 
Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) are asking her to pay their success fee for a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claim made in her late mothers name.
 
What happened
Ms W said she started to get letters addressed to her late mother, Mrs H, from FTR asking 
Mrs H to pay their success fee for a PPI claim. She said she thought the letters were a 
scam, so she didnt respond to them. But later Ms W said she was contacted by a law firm 
saying shed be taken to court for the monies owed. She complained to FTR.
FTR said a letter of authority (LoA) was signed in August 2019 instructing them to look into a 
PPI claim for Mrs H. When the claim was successful, they sent a request for payment for 
their success fee to the contact details theyd on record. And they started the process for 
collecting their outstanding fee. When Ms W told them her mother had passed away, they 
asked for a copy of the death certificate which theyve never received. 
FTR said if theyd known Mrs H had died prior to the LoA being submitted they wouldnt have 
pursued her PPI claim as they didnt provide their services for claims made by an estate. 
They said their fee was justified as theyd acted in good faith in submitting the LoA to Mrs 
Hs lender and pursuing her PPI claim based on the information provided to them in the 
initial application.
Ms W wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that FTR hadnt been authorised to act on behalf of Mrs H and so they 
couldnt charge their fee.
FTR didnt agree, they said by Ms W getting the notification of Mrs Hs successful claim it 
suggested shed submitted the claim for Mrs H. As the claim was successful Ms W, as the 
beneficiary, should pay their fee. They asked for an ombudsman to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the LoA completed and signed in August 2019. The LoA is in the name of 
the late Mrs H. The applicants details were pre-printed on the LoA by FTR and to be 
submitted a digital signature was added to it. But the LoA doesnt mention that Mrs H was 
deceased. Nor does it mention anyone acting as an executor for her. 
FTR has said that Ms W confirmed she used their online advert to apply for a PPI check and 
the contact details provided are hers. I can see the same contact details have been given to 
us. So, I dont think FTR would have been aware at the time of the application that Mrs H 
was deceased, and they submitted the claims to Mrs Hs lender in good faith. 
But as Mrs H died in 2018, for a PPI claim to have been made in August 2019, it would have 
had to have been on behalf of the estate of Mrs H. For FTR to have been authorised to 
pursue a PPI claim for Mrs H they would have needed a LoA that correctly reflected the 
claim being made. The LoA would have needed to have shown both, Mrs Hs name and that 
of the person acting for the estate, in this case Ms W, as she has grant of probate.  
When making the online application, the applicant in signing the LoA is agreeing to FTRs 
terms and conditions. And instructing FTR to act on their behalf in the pursuance of their PPI 
claim. But as I outlined above the only applicant named on the LoA is Mrs H, and it wasnt 
possible for her to instruct FTR to act for her or for her to agree to FTRs terms and 
conditions as she didnt sign the LoA. And as FTR didnt have a LoA signed on behalf of the 
estate of Mrs H - something they didnt provide their services for - their terms and conditions 
havent been agreed to. So, I dont think FTR were authorised to act for Mrs H to pursue a 
PPI claim, and so they cant charge their success fee for her claim.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim to 
waive their fee. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman