DRN-4172940
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) set up a Bounce Back
Loan (BBL) in her name as a sole trader rather than in the name of her limited company. 
What happened
In May 2020, Mrs K applied for a BBL in the name of her limited company, which Ill refer to
as X. However, Mrs K later discovered that NatWest had opened the BBL in her name 
on a sole trader basis, which meant that she was considered personally liable for the 
outstanding BBL balance. Mrs K wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
NatWest responded and explained that the business relationship between Mrs K and
themselves had always been on a sole trader basis. NatWest also noted that the BBL
agreement confirmed the loan was being provided to Mrs K and not to a limited company,
and that the funds had been received by Mrs K in her NatWest sole trader account. Mrs K
wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that NatWest had acted
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs K
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mrs K has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding 
her complaint. Id like to thank Mrs K for these submissions, and I hope she doesnt consider 
it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an 
informal dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mrs K notes that I havent addressed a specific point she raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mrs K and NatWest. Rather, it should 
be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it 
directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Mrs K applied for a business bank account on a sole trader basis with NatWest in October 
2019. This was before X was incorporated, which took place in April 2020. This means that 
Mrs K would have needed to amend the status of her business relationship with NatWest 
from being on a sole trader basis to being on a limited company basis sometime after the
incorporation with X  if she wanted to do so.
Mrs K maintains that she did update her business relationship with NatWest to being on a
limited company basis, and that she did this after X was incorporated but before she applied
for a BBL on Xs behalf. But NatWest have no record of ever receiving such a request to
amend the basis of the business relationship with Mrs K. And this means that NatWest
continued to administer the business relationship as being on a sole trader basis.
From an impartial perspective, I feel the different versions of events put forwards by Mrs K
and NatWest means that one of two things is most likely to have happened. Either Mrs K did
request a change of relationship basis with NatWest, but this wasnt then actioned by them,
or Mrs K didnt request a change of relationship basis with NatWest.
However, if Mrs K did request a change of relationship basis, its notable that Mrs K didnt
receive any confirmation of this change from NatWest. This includes that the business
account remained in the name of Mrs K and that the account documentation and statements
continued to list Mrs K  and not X  as the account holder. And I feel that this should 
reasonably have been recognised by Mrs K and acted upon by her, before she applied for 
the BBL.
Importantly, NatWest have confirmed that their process doesnt allow an account to change 
from a sole trader to a limited basis. Instead, NatWest confirm that Mrs K would have 
needed to apply for a new bank account for X and to then have closed her sole trader 
account with them. But by both NatWests and Mrs Ks account of events, this didnt happen.
Accordingly, it could never have been the case that NatWest could have issued a BBL to X
on a limited company basis following Mrs Ks BBL application  because NatWest
never held a business relationship with X. The business relationship was always with Mrs K.
Its also notable that when Mrs K applied for the BBL, the BBL documents that were
provided to her for her review and acceptance were in the name of Mrs K, and not X. And, 
because the business bank account remained in the name of Mrs K, and wasnt in the name 
of X, the BBL funds were received by Mrs K into a bank account in her name.
Mrs K may ask why NatWest didnt contact her to discuss her BBL application upon noting
that she had applied for it in the name of a limited company. In normal circumstances, I
might agree with this point. But the BBL scheme was set up precisely because of abnormal
circumstances  the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic  and many of the banks usual 
procedures and best practice surrounding lending were suspended for this scheme.
This includes that BBL applications were self-attested, and it wasnt expected that lenders
such as NatWest would check the trading name of applicants  in much the same way as
they werent expected to verify the business turnover information provided by the applicant
at the point of application. And as mentioned, Mrs K received the BBL agreement to review
and to accept if she was happy with the information contained therein  which she did.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NatWest to take
any further action. This is because Im satisfied that Mrs Ks business relationship with
NatWest was on sole trader basis and that it was incumbent on Mrs K to have recognised
this either before or during the BBL application. And, given that Mrs K received the BBL
funds into a bank account in her name, and not in the name of X, I feel its fair that she
should be considered personally liable to repay any BBL balance that remains outstanding.I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs K was wanting, but I hope shell understand, given
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman