DRN-3391019
The complaint
E complained about the difficulties they had activating a newly opened business account 
with Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus (Cashplus)
What happened
E, a sole trader, applied for a business account online with Cashplus on 22 June 2020. 
Cashplus wrote to E on 25 June 2020 saying it had reviewed the account in line with 
regulations and required E to send several proofs of identity and address.
E emailed copies of various forms of identification to Cashplus on 30 June 2020 and said 
these were also sent by post. On the same day E received an email from Cashplus saying E 
could activate the account. But when they tried to do that a few days later, they werent able 
to. So E rang Cashplus on 3 July 2020 and was told the account couldnt be accessed until 
the requested documents were received.   
E complained to Cashplus and said the requested verification documents had been sent by 
email to Cashplus on 30 June 2020. E also complained that the email sent by Cashplus on 
30 June 2020 inviting them to activate the account didnt say E had to wait until Cashplus 
received identification documents before this could be done. E said they believed the 
documents had been received and wanted to know how the advisor was aware there was a 
restriction on the account if they werent able to access it. 
Cashplus responded and didnt uphold Es complaint. It said it wasnt obliged to give detailed 
reasons as to why access to an account was restricted, or to give notice. It said E was 
correctly informed by the advisor on 3 July 2020 that they would not be able to access the 
account online until the requested documents had been received, reviewed and accepted. 
Cashplus said it hadnt yet received the documents it requested. 
E then referred the complaint to this Service and reiterated the complaint points made to 
Cashplus. E asked for an apology for the difficulties theyd been put through, reinstatement 
of the account and compensation for their time, scanning, photocopying, and email costs. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. E didnt agree with what our Investigator said 
so this came to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I know that E hasnt complained about the block that was initially put on the account, but for 
completeness, Ive looked at whether Cashplus acted fairly when it did this, and Im satisfied 
it did. Cashplus was acting in line with regulatory requirements and I can see it took steps to 
let E know what needed to be done by E in order for Cashplus to consider unblocking the 
account. Cashplus isnt obliged to let consumers know why blocks have been placed on 
accounts. Its enough that it informs consumers what information they need to provide, if 
thats the appropriate next step, to unblock the account. 
For their part, E sent copies of identification documents to Cashplus at the end of June 2020 
in order to have the block on the account lifted. Theyve complained that the documents sent 
by email and post werent picked up by Cashplus. The information sent by Cashplus to this 
Service confirms that the documents werent received, so Ive looked at why this might be. 
Ive seen the letter sent by Cashplus to E dated 25 July 2020 and this asks E to send copies 
of the requested documents to a specific address. The letter doesnt offer the option of 
sending the documents by email. I appreciate that E decided to email the documents and I 
expect this was because E was eager to do all they could to ensure Cashplus received 
them. 
However, given that Cashplus asked for the documents to be sent by post and didnt provide 
an email address on the letter, I dont think it would be fair to say that something went wrong 
with Cashplus processes when the documents sent by email didnt get to where E hoped 
they would. I agree with E that the email wasnt sent to the do not reply email listed on the 
top of the activation email, as Cashplus said it was. But, nonetheless, I dont think its fair to 
say Cashplus did something wrong when it didnt receive documents sent by email when E 
had been asked to send them by post. 
E also complained about the documents they posted not being received. From what E said 
these were sent to the address at the top of the letter dated 25 July 2020. But Cashplus had 
asked them to be sent to the address listed in the main body of the letter. So although I can 
appreciate that it was frustrating for E to find the documents hadnt been received when they 
rang on 3 July 2020, I dont think it would be fair to say Cashplus made errors here when 
neither set of documents were sent to the address Cashplus asked them to be sent to. 
It was when E rang to speak to a Cashplus advisor on 3 July 2020 to activate the account 
that they became aware the documents hadnt yet been received. E complained that they 
shouldnt have been sent an email by Cashplus on 30 June 2020 inviting them to activate 
the account when it was clear at that point the account was still blocked. 
I understand why E might feel frustrated at being told they could activate the account when it 
wasnt possible to do that. But its my understanding that when an account is newly opened 
its the marketing team at Cashplus who automatically send out the activation emails to 
consumers. This appears to be a standard email sent soon after the account is opened that 
contains details on how to activate the account as well as information about, for instance, the 
additional features available on the card, how to pay in money and how to use the account. 
So it provides essential information for new customers and I think its reasonable for this to 
be sent out soon after the account is opened, regardless of the status of individual new 
accounts.  
E also thought the Cashplus advisor they spoke to on 3 July 2020 couldnt have known there 
was a restriction on the account if she had no access to their bank records. Its my 
understanding that most banking advisors have some limited access to information about 
consumers  this would be necessary, for instance, for verifying security information  even 
if they are unable to fully access an account. 
I know my decision will disappoint E. In terms of moving forward, its my understanding that 
Cashplus did receive some identification documents from E in mid-July 2020 but these were 
incomplete and further information was needed. So the account hasnt yet been set up. I will leave it to E to contact Cashplus to check what the next steps are if they want to continue 
setting up the account.  
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman