DRN-1571026
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as 
Cashplus delayed an outgoing payment.
What happened
P decided it wanted to close its account with Cashplus. The director was told that the 
balance would need to be zero. He set up a payment on Saturday 13 July 2019 for the whole 
balance of over £12,000 to Ps new business account. But he received a call from Cashplus 
that day asking security questions and telling him that the review of the payment could not 
be completed until the next working day, Monday 15 July 2019. He was called then and told 
the restriction on the account would not be removed for 24 hours. The payment was sent on 
16 July 2019. P complains that it had been able to make similar payments before without 
questions and that Cashplus was delaying the payment because P was closing the account. 
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She noted that Cashplus 
had offered P £20 for not sending it an email from the department reviewing the account as it 
said it would. She didnt think Cashplus had made an error. We are not the regulator and did 
not have a role in saying what processes it should follow. Although P had been in touch with 
Cashplus about closing the account it was still a matter for it to decide what checks to make. 
Cashplus had said that it does not process payments over a weekend and so it continued its 
review on the next working day.
P did not agree. The director said that we had not taken into account that P had been able to 
make similar payments earlier in 2019 without checks. He did not think we had covered all 
the issues raised and he wanted an ombudsman to review this again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cashplus has to ensure that it complies with legal and regulatory requirements. Under the 
terms and conditions of the account Cashplus is able to make additional checks on 
payments to ensure they are genuine. Its explained that it doesnt process faster payments 
over a weekend and that the relevant review team does not work then anyway.
I know that the director of P is frustrated about what happened and that the combination of 
these factors led to a delay in a payment being made. I can see from Ps account statement 
that significant payments had been made before  for example for £15,000 in March 2019  
and higher than the one it wanted to make to close the account. But thats no guarantee that 
future checks would not be made.
In the final response letter Cashplus states that as the scheduled payment was your 
entire balance, in order for the payment to be released, your account needed to be reviewed 
by another department. I wouldnt necessarily have expected Cashplus to tell P about any 
of its security checks in advance. Or to rely on earlier calls from the director about closing 
the account as being sufficient notice to allow the payment.
As our investigator has set out we dont have a role in saying what processes or level of 
service Cashplus should provide. So, it not being able to review such payments over a 
weekend is not something I can say was an error. And nor that an account when unrestricted 
cannot be used for 24 hours. Im afraid these are simply the processes it has decided to 
operate.
I understand the issue for P and why the director finds this so unsatisfactory. But I have not 
found that Cashplus made any error or departed from its established processes. The result 
was a delay in this payment being made but I dont have a basis to require Cashplus to do 
anything further. It has offered £20 for not sending an email.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus need do no more than it has already offered to do, 
and which is to pay P £20.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman