DRN-4058948
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited [AA] 
has handled a claim they made on their buildings insurance policy following an escape of 
water.
What happened
Mr S has led the complaint with this Service so Ill refer to him mainly throughout. 
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr S owns a property insured under a buildings insurance policy underwritten by AA. 
In December 2022, there was an escape of water and Mr S reported this to AA. He 
arranged for the cause of the leak to be fixed privately as there was no cover for this 
under the insurance policy.
AA asked Mr S to obtain a cause of damage report (CODR) explaining how the leak 
had happened and provide photographic evidence of the damaged carpet to validate 
the claim. Mr S wanted AA to send someone out to undertake the validation on site 
and said he couldnt send photos or proof of the repair. He complained to AA.
Sometime later, AA agreed to send out a carpeting contractor, which Ill refer to as 
C, to look at the damage but reiterated it would still need a copy of the CODR to 
confirm it was an insured peril. By this time, Mr S had obtained a quote for a 
replacement carpet from a local retailer and told AA he was going ahead with this.
AA asked Mr S to retain the damaged carpet so it could be looked at by C with a view 
to validating the claim later. It also said C could take photos of the repaired pipework 
and other evidence such as the CODR and quote for the replacement carpet. But Mr 
S was unhappy C couldnt attend until the New Year.
Mr S raised a complaint with this service. Our Investigator didnt uphold it and 
explained, he thought AA had acted fairly in requesting supporting evidence and had 
attempted to assist Mr S in providing this. In the absence of the requested evidence, 
he wouldnt be asking AA to do anymore. 
Mr S disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the consumer to show 
the claim is covered under the policy terms. Ive kept this principle in mind when 
considering this complaint. 
In this case, AA asked Mr S to provide evidence of the cause of the leak and photos 
of the damaged carpet to enable it to assess if the damage was as a result of an 
insured peril and therefore covered by the policy. 
For smaller claims such as this, it often wont be necessary for the insurer to send an 
agent to the site to complete the validation process. It will instead ask the 
policyholder to provide photographs and a report of the damage for it to consider. I 
dont consider this unreasonable and in my view it is good industry practice as it often 
means claims can be validated more quickly.
While AA didnt initially agree to send someone out to validate the claim, when it 
became clear it would be difficult for Mr S to send photos of the damage, repairs and 
report, it eventually agreed to. I know Mr S was unhappy that this hadnt been offered 
immediately, but in my view, AA was doing its best to help out in Mr Ss 
circumstances when otherwise it might not have considered it necessary. So I dont 
think AA has acted unfairly here.
I know there was a delay over the Christmas period before C could attend to view the 
damaged carpet and take photos of any available evidence so Mr S decided to 
appoint his own contractor and didnt pursue this. 
So, at the time Mr S made his complaint, AA hadnt been provided with any of the 
supporting evidence it had requested and so it hasnt been able to confirm if the 
damage is covered by the policy or not. Keeping in mind the principle I detailed 
above, I dont think AA has acted unfairly in not settling the claim in the absence of 
this information. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman