DRN-1748481
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Unum Ltd has declined a claim on his former employers income 
protection policy. 
What happened
Mr D was the beneficiary of his employers group income protection policy. In April 2018 he 
stopped working because he was having back pain. In January 2019 he made a claim on the 
policy. 
Unum said that they should have been told about the claim in October 2018, when the 
deferred period ended. They agreed to assess the claim and reviewed the available medical 
evidence. They declined the claim on the basis that there wasnt enough medical evidence 
to show that Mr D met the policys definition of incapacity or that he was incapacitated for the 
whole of the deferred period. Mr D appealed but that was also rejected by Unum for broadly 
the same reasons.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint 
because she didnt think it was unreasonable for Unum to decline the claim based on the 
medical evidence. Thats because she didnt think it was unreasonable for them to conclude 
that the medical evidence didnt show Mr D met the definition of incapacity and that he was 
unable to perform his job throughout the deferred period. The investigator also thought that 
Unum had fairly considered the additional medical evidence presented at a later stage 
because it didnt refer to Mr Ds ability to work during the deferred period. 
Mr D didnt agree. He says hes lost a job he loved and did everything that was asked of him. 
He feels Unum are suggesting hes made his illness up and he expressed his frustration that 
his employer hadnt got a proper understanding of their insurance policy. So I need to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms say that a member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that they are: 
Unable by reason of their illness or injury to perform the material and substantial 
duties of their insured occupation and are not performing any occupation.
Im really sorry to hear that Mr D has had such a difficult time. Hes explained that hes been 
without a source of income for several months and hes also had difficulties in accessing 
benefits, which has been further complicated by Covid-19.  So I have a lot of empathy with 
his circumstances. 
However, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint as I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum 
to conclude that there was a lack of clarity in relation to Mr Ds functionality during the 
deferred period or that the late notification of the claim has prejudiced their position. 
I say that because: 
I appreciate Mr Ds frustration in relation to the late notification of his claim. However, 
thats a matter between Mr D and his former employer as Unum didnt have any 
control over when the claim was submitted
 
Even though the claim was late Unum agreed to review it. Thats not something they 
are required to do as the policy terms give them the discretion to simply decline the 
claim in such circumstances
Whilst Mr D was receiving sick notes from his GP during the deferred period the 
consultations were typically conducted over the phone. And the GP noted in October 
2018 that he didnt have much insight into the care Mr D was receiving from the 
hospital which was making it difficult for him to arrange medication and issue sick 
notes. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to place less weight on this 
evidence
 
I appreciate that Mr D was seen by an occupational physician in August 2018 who 
said he wasnt fit to work because of his pain. But there is contradictory medical 
evidence from within the deferred period. For example, in September 2018, Mr Ds 
physiotherapist said it would be helpful for Mr D to begin a phased return and that 
there was no orthopaedic intervention needed at that time. The report doesnt make it 
clear how Mr Ds condition would impact on his functionality at work. The 
physiotherapist recommended weight loss and progressive exercise. I appreciate that 
at that time Mr D wasnt aware of this policy, and that he was anxious to return to 
work, but I dont think it is unreasonable for Unum to rely on this report as it reflects a 
contemporary record of the discussion about Mr Ds condition and ability to work 
Mr D was also referred to the pain clinic. In January 2019, the physiotherapist who 
saw Mr D also recommended exercise based rehabilitation with education and 
psychological therapies, where needed. The consultant said that there was no role 
for further medication or medical intervention and also recommended removing some 
of Mr Ds prescriptions as they were a barrier to him returning to work and they 
werent having much impact 
I also dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to conclude that two additional 
reports from August 2019 didnt change their findings about Mr Ds claim. I can see 
that Unum asked their occupational health doctor to review the reports and he 
concluded that it didnt add to the understanding of Mr Ds medical and functional 
status during the deferred period or since that time. I dont think thats unreasonable 
as the GPs letter set out what treatment Mr D has had but doesnt set out how it 
impacted on Mr Ds ability to work. And, as Ive explained, it doesnt seem that Mr Ds 
GP was always aware of the detail of Mr Ds condition and treatment. The 
occupational physicians report focuses on Mr Ds condition in August 2019 rather 
than during the deferred period.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman