DRN-1675888
The complaint
Mrs M complains Society of Lloyds (SOL) settled a claim a third party made on her car 
insurance policy for an accident she said didnt occur.
What happened
Mrs M is assisted in this complaint by a representative, but for ease Ill refer to the actions of 
Mrs M and her representative as Mrs Ms actions throughout this decision. 
Mrs M had a car insurance policy with SOL. In September 2019, SOL was contacted by a 
third-party insurer to tell it there had been a claim against Mrs M in respect of an incident 
that had happened in June 2019. The third-party said Mrs M had driven her car into the third-
partys car while it had been stationary in a car park. The third-party said shed witnessed the 
incident as she got off a train and had seen Mrs M get out of her car to check for damage, 
wipe the bumper and then drive away.
Mrs M told SOL she had no knowledge of the incident, so SOL asked for evidence from the 
third-party insurer. The third-party gave a witness statement and provided photos which the 
third party took. It said the photos showed damage to both cars, including silver paint 
transfer (the photos of Mrs Ms car werent taken on the day of the accident, but when the 
third-party next saw it parked in the car park). Based on the available evidence, SOL chose 
to settle the third-party claim rather than defend it in court.
Mrs M complained to SOL. She said the accident had never happened and the damage to 
her car was caused by her husband in an unrelated incident. But SOL explained the claim 
had been reviewed by its legal department who had concluded it was unlikely the claim 
would be successfully defended in court.
Mrs M remained dissatisfied and so she complained to this service. She said she disputes 
the credibility of the third-party who said shed witnessed the accident after getting off the 
train. She questioned why the photos were not taken on the day of the incident and why it 
had taken three months for the claim to be reported. She said she always backed into 
parking spaces and questioned why there were no independent witnesses, given the station 
car park would have been busy at the time. She believed the claim was fraudulent. And she 
said her husband had caused the damage in a different incident and the third-party had 
simply looked for a car with damage to support her false statement regarding the incident.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied SOL had acted 
fairly in agreeing to settle the claim, noting it had taken legal advice on the prospect of 
successfully defending the claim in court and that it was reasonable for it to have taken that 
advice into account when deciding to settle the claim.
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. She maintained the third-partys account was vague and that its a coincidence 
she would see the accident happen as she got off the train. She said shes been driving for 
20 years and would have no reason not to accept liability as she was fully insured. She doesnt think SOL fully investigated the incident. And she thinks SOL only settled the claim 
because it was the cheapest option.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms argued there was no concrete evidence that she was involved in the incident, but 
its not my role not to decide whether or not she was. When a consumer is unhappy that their 
insurer has settled a third-party claim, our role is to consider whether the insurer handled the 
claim in a fair and reasonable manner, not whether they were present/caused the accident. 
SOL wasnt required to get Mrs Ms agreement to settle the claim. Mrs Ms policy stated SOL 
could take-over, carry out, defend or settle any claim and take proceedings (which we will 
pay for, and for our own benefit) to recover any payment we have made under this 
insurance. We will take this action in your name or in the name of anyone else covered by 
this insurance. This term allowed SOL to handle the claim how it saw fit. But to be fair and 
reasonable, the ultimate decision, even if cost related, must still be based on facts and 
evidence.
Were likely to consider a decision was reasonable if it was made in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy, having considered all the available evidence, doesnt appear 
unsound or contrary to the evidence, and follows standard legal principles. 
SOL took legal advice on whether to defend the claim in court. The solicitor advised that if 
SOL argued the claim was fabricated, it would risk incurring escalating costs. And it said, 
based on the evidence, the third-party would succeed in proving the claim in the small claims 
court. Mrs M thinkns the third-partys account was vague, but the solicitor disagreed, 
describing the account as detailed. I accept it was a coincidence that the third-party 
witnessed the incident as she got off the train, but that doesnt mean it didnt happen. The 
solicitor didnt think there was enough to support Mrs Ms account that she always reversed 
into her parking space. And it didnt think it was conceivable that such a minor incident could 
have gone unnoticed by others.
Mrs M has argued the photo of her car wasnt taken at the time of the incident, but the 
solicitor thought this was consistent with the third partys account that she witnessed it from 
afar and Mrs M drove away before she could get there. The solicitor considered Mrs Ms 
suggestion that her car was chosen because it had corresponding similar damage. But it 
didnt think Mrs M would be likely to succeed in court.
Ultimately, the solicitor advised that contesting the matter in court would likely result in 
unnecessary legal defence costs for a case which would likely be lost in court. SOL decided 
to follow this advice, and I dont think that decision was unfair or unreasonable. 
Im satisfied SOL took account of all the available evidence and arguments and that, having 
taken legal advice on the likelihood of success if the matter went to court, it took a 
commercial decision to settle the claim. Im satisfied that decision was fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
My final decision
I understand Mrs M will be disappointed, but I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman