DRN-3366626
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the time it took Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) to repair a leak in her 
kitchen under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Ms C claimed under her home emergency policy after she found a leak under her kitchen 
sink. A plumber attended the same day and she showed him that it had seeped through the 
wall into her sitting room. The repair needed two people, so the plumber arranged a further 
appointment for a few days later. 
The plumber didnt attend so Ms C contacted Aviva to complain.
Aviva completed the repair two weeks after Ms C first made her claim. While she was happy 
with the repair itself, she was unhappy that Aviva had missed appointments, delayed 
completing the repair, allowed the leak to cause damage to her sitting room wall, and 
generally provided a standard of service less than she expected as a long-standing 
customer.
Aviva paid £150 compensation for the service shortfalls, but it didnt think it had contributed 
to the sitting room wall damage.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. She said the damage was already there so 
Aviva wasn't responsible for paying for repairs. And she thought the compensation Aviva 
paid was reasonable for the shortfalls in service identified.
Ms C didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Ms C will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The issue of complaint is that Ms C thinks Aviva contributed to the damage to her sitting 
room wall because of its delay repairing the leak in her kitchen. Aviva doesnt think its 
responsible for any wall damage.
Theres no dispute about the following points:
Aviva was responsible for some delays. 
The sitting room wall was damaged by the leak.
The leak itself was repaired.
The remaining issues, then, are whether Aviva is responsible for repairing the damage to Ms 
Cs sitting room wall, and whether its payment of £150 in recognition of the service shortfalls 
is enough.
Wall damage
Ive looked at the policy to see whether theres cover for the damage, and I see it excludes 
the following:
any losses caused by any delays in obtaining spare parts and any losses as a result of an 
incident covered by this policy other than those direct costs expressly covered by this 
policy, unless caused by our negligence or that of our agents and suppliers, including the 
failure to search all of our stockists for a spare part
Looking at the evidence, Ms C says she told Aviva about the leak seeping into her sitting 
room on the first day when she made her claim. A plumber attended the same day and she 
showed him the damage. So, this tells me Ms Cs wall was damaged even before any of the 
subsequent delays responding to her claim. For that reason, I cant fairly say that Aviva was 
responsible for the damage that was already there.
Although the damage may have got worse while Ms C waited for the repair, she would have 
needed to arrange for repairs to her wall regardless of the extent of the damage. Theres 
nothing in the evidence to suggest the cost of repairs would be significantly greater because 
of any delays repairing the leak, so I see no reason to ask Aviva to contribute to the repair 
cost.
Delays
Theres no dispute that Aviva was responsible for the delay responding to Ms Cs claim after 
its first appointment. While it sent a plumber within a matter of hours when Ms C first made 
her claim, it missed subsequent appointments. Having listened to the call recordings of Ms 
Cs claim, I note she didnt express any dissatisfaction at having to wait five days from the 
first appointment to the next one. Indeed, she complimented Aviva on its service. Its clear 
that she became upset and frustrated at the delays after the first missed appointment, which 
is understandable, and she remained unhappy with the service until Aviva completed the 
repair two weeks after she first reported it.
Looking at the shortfalls in service, then, I note Aviva missed an appointment and failed to 
book in for a repair. The evidence shows that the claim hadnt been progressed because a 
two-engineer appointment hadnt been arranged, which is what the first plumber said was 
needed. When Ms C complained, Aviva booked in the appointment and the repair was 
completed as planned. Im satisfied that this delay couldve been avoided.
I can understand Ms Cs frustration with the lack of progress after the initial appointment, 
and it led to an avoidable delay. But when Aviva did progress the claim, there was still a wait 
of three days because the repair needed a two-person appointment. I think that particular 
delay was unavoidable.
Aviva paid Ms C £150 by way of apology for the service shortfalls. As Ive already said, I 
havent seen anything to show that the delay caused Ms C to incur greater repair costs for 
her sitting room wall compared to those already expected when she first made her claim. So, 
Im satisfied that the compensation Aviva paid was fair and reasonable for the avoidable 
delay of around five days, missed appointments and failure to progress the claim until 
prompted.
Ive noted Ms C comments about slugs in her kitchen. While the presence of slugs mightve 
been unpleasant, I cant reasonably say Aviva is responsible for that. Ive also noted Ms Cs unhappiness about the service she received, explaining that shes had the policy for many 
years without ever having claimed. Again, I understand her frustration, but I wouldnt expect 
the number of years shes had her policy to affect the way Aviva handled her claim.
In summary, its clear Aviva didnt progress Ms Cs claim as well as she mightve expected. 
But Im satisfied that the evidence shows it completed the repair in line with the policy, and 
its compensation payment in recognition of the shortfalls in service was fair and reasonable. 
I see no reason to ask Aviva to pay any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman