DRN-2952340
The complaint
Miss T complains about charges applied by MotoNovo Finance Limited following the return 
of her car.
What happened
In August 2018, Miss T was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. The agreement was for 48 months, with monthly payments of £120.
Miss T had issues with the car and complained to MotoNovo in April 2019. She brought her 
complaint to this service as she was unhappy with their response. In January 2021, one of 
our ombudsmen decided that MotoNovo should allow Miss T to reject the car, and to collect 
it at no cost to her.
MotoNovo arranged for the dealer who supplied the car to collect it. The car was collected in 
February 2021 and an inspection took place. This inspection identified damages to the car 
and quoted £2,656 for the work. MotoNovo then arranged for an independent inspection to 
take place.
This identified damage to various parts of the car, including a speaker cover, a wing mirror, 
an indicator, an under tray, and scratches and dents to various body parts.
MotoNovo said these were in excess of the acceptable level of wear and tear. They charged 
Miss T £1,740 for the damage.
Miss T said she was happy to pay for the damage to the wing mirror as she was responsible 
for this. But she said the car was supplied with scratches, and some of the scratches werent 
there when the car was collected from her.
Unhappy with MotoNovos response, she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said she thought it was fair that MotoNovo charge Miss T for the damage to 
the speaker cover, and the wing mirror. She also thought she should pay for the valet of the 
car. But she didnt think there was sufficient evidence to justify charging for the damage to 
the underside of the car, the dents and scratches, or the indicator. She said there was no 
photos of the damage, or the photographs didnt satisfy her that the damage was outside of 
the allowed amounts.
MotoNovo disagreed. They said the report had been completed by an independent engineer 
and that their credentials were more important than the images. Our investigator told 
MotoNovo that shed reached her conclusion based on the evidence shed been provided 
with. She also told them that the BVRLA guidelines say that customers should be provided 
with photographic or other documentary evidence to support the charges theyd raised.
MotoNovo disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss T was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
Miss T accepted shes liable for the cost of the damage to the wing mirror. She also accepts, 
reluctantly, our investigators view that she should pay for the cost of the car to be cleaned. 
Ive seen pictures of the inside of the car, and can see, for example, the boot and the rear 
seats are heavily soiled. So I agree that its reasonable for MotoNovo to ask Miss T to pay 
the cost of cleaning the interior of the car.
I have to consider whether or not its fair and reasonable for MotoNovo to charge Miss T for 
the scratches, the door speaker cover, the indicator, and the under-floor panel.
The BVRLA guidance provides an industry wide standard that defines fair wear and tear 
when cars are returned at the end of a finance agreement. So its the relevant guidance in 
this matter.
The guidance says that drivers should review the car several weeks before its returned so 
they can decide whether or not to carry out the repairs themselves. It also says they should 
make sure the car has been cleaned. But Miss T wasnt given notice of the collection, so she 
wasnt able to do any of this.
The guidance also makes clear that customers should be given a breakdown of the charges. 
And that they should be given photographic/video or other documentary evidence to help 
justify or support the charges made.
Ive reviewed the independent engineers report and the photographs provided to consider 
whether or not the charges are justified by the evidence.
Underside of the car
The report says, The vehicle engine under tray is damaged and will require replacement. 
But there is no explanation of how, or when this damage is likely to have happened. Or if it 
couldve been caused by wear and tear.  And whilst there are photographs of the underside 
of the car, there is no indication of the extent of the damage.
So I dont think its fair or reasonable for MotoNovo to charge Miss T for this.
Door speaker
The report says: The right-side rear door speaker grill was broken, will require 
replacement. The photograph in the engineers report clearly shows the damage to the door 
speaker cover. Speaker covers are not specifically mentioned in the guidance. But the 
guidance does say that interior fittings must be free from damage. I think its reasonable to 
say the speaker cover is an interior fitting. And the photograph shows a significant crack in the speaker cover. So I think its fair and reasonable for MotoNovo to charge Miss T for the 
damage.
Dents and scratches 
The guidance says that dents should be 15mm or less in diameter, and scratches of 25mm 
or less are acceptable, provided they can be polished out. 
The report said: There were dents and scratches on the n/s/r door, n/s/f door, n/s/f wing, 
bonnet, and o/s/r door.
The report also says: we are recommending that the vehicle to be subject to a trade valet 
and machine polish, thereafter the bodywork checked by a smart repair specialist and any 
necessary repairs undertaken.
The report includes three photographs of the bodywork. The first is of the rear of the car and 
doesnt show or highlight any damage. The second is of the front view of the car  again no 
damage is visible or highlighted. 
The third is a photograph of the passenger side of the vehicle. It shows both passenger side 
doors. They show what appears to be white pen marks, apparently showing scratches or 
dents. Ive assumed this because one of the pen marks is around a scuff that Miss T 
highlighted in the photographs she submitted. None of the scratches or dents are clear in 
these pictures. None of the photographs show the scratches or dents alongside a ruler, as I 
would expect to see in a report of this type. I find it unusual to see a report without this, 
especially in a case like this where the damage is disputed. This usually provides the 
justification mentioned in the BVRLA guidance. 
Ive also considered the photographs submitted by Miss T. She said she took these just 
before the car was collected. MotoNovo told Miss T that the photographs were taken too far 
away from the car to be able to see any detail. They also said the car was wet and dirty. 
They said this meant that her photographs didnt accurately show the condition of the car.
I agree that Miss Ts photographs arent conclusive. But Ive compared her passenger side 
photograph to the one in the report. There is no evidence of the damage on the front door as 
highlighted in the engineers report. And Im satisfied that its more likely than not that it 
wouldve been visible if the damage was above the allowance in the fair wear and tear 
guidance.
Ive also considered that in the report the engineer says: we are recommending that the 
vehicle to be subject to a trade valet and machine polish, thereafter the bodywork checked 
by a smart repair specialist and any necessary repairs undertaken.
So its possible that any scratches could be removed with a machine polish. And the 
guidance says that scratches can be acceptable if they can be polished out.
And for those reasons, Im not satisfied that MotoNovo has shown that the scratches and 
dents are greater than whats permitted in the BVRLA guidance. So I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for MotoNovo to charge Miss T for this.
Indicator
Theres no mention or evidence of damage to the door indicator in the report. So I dont think 
its fair or reasonable for MotoNovo to charge Miss T for this.MotoNovo said they were relying on the credentials of the independent engineer. Im not 
doubting his credentials, but the purpose of the report is to demonstrate that the damage 
charged for was justified, as set out in the BVRLA guidance. Ive explained above why I think 
the report fails to do this.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think MotoNovo acted fairly when charging 
Miss T for scratches and dents, an indicator, and the underside of the car. I think its fair and 
reasonable that they issue a new invoice limited to the following:
OSR door speaker cover, £30.70+vat
OS door mirror unit, £88.48+vat
OS door mirror glass, £49.57+vat
OS door mirror cover, £101.23+vat
Valet of the car
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Miss Ts complaint about MotoNovo Finance Limited. 
They must follow my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman