DRN-2371232
The complaint
Miss W complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund her £400 after 
an ATM failed to dispense to her. And shed like her money refunded.
What happened
Miss W has a current account with Halifax.
On the 1 August 2019 Miss W tried to withdraw £400 from her Halifax account using a cash 
machine owned by another bank, Ill call Bank T. Miss W explains that she put her card into 
the machine and entered her PIN before requesting £400. But, her cash wasnt dispensed. 
Miss W explains that her card was returned but a message was displayed on the screen 
saying her cash was unavailable. Miss W explained that she checked her online banking and 
noticed the cash had been taken from her account but she expected this to be corrected the 
next day. When this didnt happen Miss W contacted Halifax to raise a dispute. Miss W 
initially explained that she needed to take up the funds to pay off credit and rent. 
Halifax didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. The bank said that Bank T confirmed there was no 
error with the machine, her transaction showed that cash was retracted and the ATM had 
only had a £30 surplus. 
Miss W didnt accept Halifaxs conclusion so referred her complaint to our service. She 
explained that not having the funds was having a negative impact on her and her young 
daughter.
 
One of our investigators looked at Miss Ws complaint. But they didnt think Halifax needed 
to do anything further here. In summary our investigator said:
- The journal role shows that Miss Ws £400 was dispensed in the form of 40 x £10 
notes.
- Miss W transaction shows cash was retracted but the balance was only £30 over.
- There was no evidence of any errors with the machine and a limited time window for 
a cash trap device to be installed. 
Miss W didnt accept our investigators opinion so its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. And Ill explain why below. 
The ATM that Miss W used on the 1 August 2019 wasnt owned by Halifax, but by Bank T. 
Bank T have confirmed there were no problems reported with the machine at the time of the 
disputed withdrawal  and theres no evidence the machine was tampered with. Theyve also 
provided evidence to show that only £30 surplus was found in the ATM machine and not 
£400. And a copy of the journal roll which gives a details of the timings and notes dispensed 
for Miss Ws transaction. 
From what Ive seen I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to decline Miss Ws refund. I 
say this because:
- Miss Ws explained that she attempted to withdraw £400 but the cash didnt 
dispense. However when the ATM balance was checked two days later, only £30 
was found in surplus. If the £400 hadnt dispensed  as Miss W explains  Id have 
expected the ATM to have £400 in surplus but this wasnt the case. 
- Ive seen a copy of the Journal Roll from Bank T which indicates the timings of the 
transaction and the notes which are dispensed. It also reports any errors with the 
transaction. I can see that for Miss Ws withdrawal 40 x £10 notes were dispensed  
therefore totalling £400  and the transaction was completed within two minutes after 
Miss Ws card is entered. There is however a note saying cash retracted. Halifax 
have explained that this indicates some of the notes were retracted back in to the 
ATM during Miss Ws transaction. Its possible this could be the £30 that the ATM 
had in surplus funds  but for the reasons Ive explained I dont think this indicates 
the entire £400 wasnt dispensed. 
- Ive considered the possibility of a cash trap device having been installed on the ATM 
Miss W used. But I think this is unlikely. I say because firstly a fraudster would need 
sufficient time prior to Miss Ws transaction to install the device and afterwards to 
remove the device (and cash) before the next customer. Looking at the journal roll a 
fraudster had less than one minute before and just over two minutes afterwards to 
install and remove the cash trap. On balance Im not satisfied this is sufficient time to 
safely install and remove a cash trap without being noticed. 
- Miss W explained to our investigator that withdrawing £400 isnt unusual for her  but 
Im afraid I dont think the evidence shows this. Looking at Miss Ws account 
statements for the six months prior to the transaction, I cant see any withdrawals for 
£400. 
- Miss W initially explained to our service that she took out the money for a variety of 
reasons. However on being asked by our investigator more recently, she was unable 
to recall exactly what. And didnt make any further attempts to withdraw the funds  
which I find strange. 
I understand its been a difficult time for Miss W, but for the reasons Ive explained above on 
balance Im satisfied that Miss Ws cash was dispensed. And for this reason I wont be 
asking Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman