DRN-1337238
 
The complaint
Mr A complains Gefion Insurance A/S undervalued his car when he claimed on his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr A buys and sells cars and has a motor trade policy with Gefion. One of the cars hed 
bought was stolen so he made a claim on his policy. Gefion reviewed the claim and 
arranged for an engineer to value Mr As car. To settle the claim Gefion then offered Mr A 
what hed paid for the car, minus his excess. Mr A wasnt happy with this and complained. 
He said when hed bought the car it had needed repairing, because it had previously been 
involved in an accident. He said hed had spent around £1,500 repairing it and didnt think 
Gefions offer of around £4,000 covered his loss. He said the engineer had valued it at 
around £6,000 so he thought Gefion should pay more.
Gefion disagreed, it said Mr As policy will only pay up to the purchase price of the car. And 
as Mr A had paid around £4,500 for his car it felt its offer was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Mr A didnt agree so he brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr As complaint and found that when hed bought the car it was a 
category N total loss. She also found that Mr A had spent £1,500 repairing the car so it was 
roadworthy again. Because of this she didnt think Gefion had fairly valued Mr As car and 
recommended it pays £5,100 minus any applicable policy deductions. 
Gefion disagreed. It said the policy is designed to cover the car up to the value paid, not any 
repairs or modifications made to it. Gefion also said the invoice provided didnt show the 
repairs had been paid for and questioned why the repair cost was a round figure of £1,500. 
As Gefion disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy says the most it will pay is the lowest of either the trade value immediately 
before the loss, the purchase price of the vehicle, the indemnity limit on the policy schedule 
or the value recorded in the schedule of vehicles. Ive therefore considered whether Gefion 
is applying this term in a fair and reasonable way. 
When Mr A bought the car it had damage which needed repairing. Mr A said he had this 
repaired. Hes also provided the sales document which shows a picture of the damage, the 
repair invoice and photos of the car after it was repaired. Ive considered Gefions points 
about the invoice not showing the repair has been paid for. But that hasnt persuaded me Mr 
A hasnt had the repairs completed. I say this because hes also provided pictures of the car after its been fixed. Im therefore satisfied hed had the car repaired and likely paid for it. 
Gefion also said its strange for a repair invoice to come to a round figure but this alone isnt 
enough to persuade me Mr A hasnt paid for the repairs or had them completed for the 
reasons Ive given.  
As Mr A had repaired the car it means his financial loss is the purchase price and repair 
cost, so Im not satisfied by paying the purchase price Gefion is applying the term in a fair 
and reasonable way in this case. I say this because Mr As policy is designed to cover his 
loss and by only paying the purchase price it hasnt done that.  Because of this the fair and 
reasonable valuation in this particular case would be to pay the trade value immediately 
before the theft, as this is what Mr As loss is. 
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we use 
relevant trade guides. I find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of 
sales prices. Im also satisfied that in this case the trade guides are the fairest way to value 
Mr As car. 
When looking at valuations for Mr As car, the three guides I looked at gave a trade value of 
£6,290, £6,400 and £7,287. As the third valuation is out of line I find it less persuasive, so it 
wouldnt be fair to include it. The engineers report provided by Gefion also says trade value 
is £6,290 and placed a pre-accident value at £5,032. The report also notes there is a 
previous category N total loss marker on the car and says its valuation has taken this into 
account by deducting 20% from the valuation.  As Mr As car had previously been a category 
N total loss Im satisfied the engineers deduction of 20% appears fair in this case as its 
likely to be worth less than if it hadnt been written-off before. 
When looking at the two valuations above, minus 20%, Im satisfied our investigators 
recommendation of a value £5,100 is within the ranges of the guides and therefore fair and 
reasonable and in line with the policy terms and conditions. Gefion should therefore pay    Mr 
A this amount minus any excesses. As Gefion has already made a settlement to Mr A its fair 
for them to deduct that amount from what it pays. Gefion should also add 8% simple interest 
per year to the additional amount it pays to compensate Mr A for not having the money. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint and require Gefion Insurance A/S to 
pay Mr A £5,100 minus his excess and what its already paid. Gefion should also add 8% 
simple interest per year to the additional amount it pays, calculated from the date of claim 
until the date it makes payment.
Gefion should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr As accepted my decision. 
If Gefion Insurance A/S considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr 
A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.  
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.Alex Newman
Ombudsman