DRN-3268297
The complaint
Ms S was a partner in a partnership. She complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc failed to 
remove her from the partnerships bank account after she left the partnership  and allowed 
the remaining partner to obtain a Bounce Back Loan in their joint names.
What happened
The partnership banked with Clydesdale. Through that account, an application for a 
Bounce Back Loan was made in October 2020. Clydesdale approved the request and a loan 
of £7,000 was drawn down on 29 October.
Ms S says that she left the partnership in November 2019 and only discovered in January 
2021 that the loan had been taken out in the partnerships name  meaning that she was 
jointly and severally liable for its repayment. She raised a complaint with Clydesdale.
Clydesdale said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said it had received an enquiry from Ms Ss 
former partner about removing a partner from the account mandate on 14 October, but 
 after explaining the process  hadnt actually received a request to do so. So the account 
remained in the partnerships name when the Bounce Back Loan application was made on 
19 October, which the bank said it had processed correctly. 
However, Clydesdale said it would help make the arrangements that wouldve been in place 
had a proper request been made prior to the loan application. It subsequently contacted 
Ms Ss former partner and transferred the loan into their sole name  removing Ms S. This 
was completed on 22 April 2021.
Ms S says it is Clydesdales fault that she was in this position and wants the bank to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience the matter has caused her. She says the 
prospect of being liable for the £7,000 loan caused her significant anxiety and that she spent 
several hours chasing the bank up to resolve the matter. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Clydesdale take any further action in response to the 
complaint. In summary, he said:
It wasnt Clydesdales fault that the partnerships bank account had remained 
unchanged. The bank hadnt received the appropriate request to remove Ms S.
Clydesdale had processed the Bounce Back Loan application correctly. It had 
received a request on behalf of the partnership and dealt with it accordingly  
particularly as the applicant confirmed that they were authorised to apply on behalf of 
the partnership.
Clydesdale had taken appropriate steps to remove Ms S from the loan when alerted 
to the issue and her potential liability was never called upon. It had taken some time 
to do so, but it was always going to be a complicated process given the nature of the 
loan arrangements  and Clydesdale had explained this to Ms S at the outset.
Ms S remained unhappy. She said that the bank knew she was no longer involved in the 
partnership and so shouldnt have issued the loan in the way it did. She also said the 
implications couldve been very significant for her had she not found out about the loan when 
she did, and spent months fighting to resolve it with the bank. So she asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this matter has caused Ms S some understandable concern and that its 
taken her some time and trouble to sort things out. But for me to require that Clydesdale 
compensate her for this, Id need to find that the bank did something wrong  and I dont 
think it did. I say this because:
The fact that the account remained in the partners joint names wasnt down to an 
error on Clydesdales part. It hadnt received an appropriate request to remove Ms S 
(or make any other changes, such as closing the account altogether). It was the 
partners responsibility to arrange this and I wouldnt expect Clydesdale to have 
acted unless and until it received a clear and explicit instruction in line with its 
requirements.
Although Ms Ss former partner was in touch with Clydesdale about removing Ms S 
on 14 October (prior to the Bounce Back Loan application), this wasnt sufficient for 
the bank to make any changes. Clydesdale responded and provided the appropriate 
form for completion, but then did not receive this back before the loan application 
was made on 19 October.
The Bounce Back Loan application was made on behalf of the partnership, with no 
changes to the account having been made. The applicant confirmed they had the 
appropriate authority to bind the partnership to the agreement. So I dont think 
Clydesdale did anything wrong in processing the application in the usual way and in 
line with the rules and requirements of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
While I can see why Ms S says that Clydesdale shouldnt have issued the loan in 
light of the email it received from her former partner on 14 October, I dont agree. As 
above, I wouldnt expect the bank to have acted until it received an appropriate 
request  not least as, for any number of reasons, the partners couldve decided 
against making the changes. I think the bank was entitled to accept the loan 
application in good faith. 
Clydesdale arranged to remove Ms S from the loan and did so before she was called 
upon to make any payment under the agreement. It took around three months to do 
so. But the unique nature of the product, being a Bounce Back Loan, added a layer 
of complexity and meant that things werent solely in the banks control (given the 
loan was provided under the government-backed scheme). Clydesdale also needed 
to liaise with Ms Ss former partner to agree the changes. So I dont think the time 
taken to make these changes was unreasonable.
So taking everything into account  and while I have some sympathy for the position that 
Ms S found herself in  I dont think there is any basis on which I could fairly require 
Clydesdale to compensate her for any of the distress or inconvenience she suffered in 
dealing with these issues.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman