DRN-3334878
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
Mr M is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill largely 
refer to all representations as being made by Mr M.
What happened
Mr M says he responded to an advertisement from Portal which suggested he might be able 
to release funds from his pension. And in October 2016, he completed a form authorising 
Portal to obtain details from his existing pension provider, to explore if this was appropriate.
Portal gathered information about Mr Ms existing pension and arranged for a transfer value 
analysis (TVAS) to be carried out. Mr Ms DB scheme was recorded as having a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £88,765.22.
Portal completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and 
objectives. It recorded that he was 54, separated and going through a divorce, full time 
employed and in good health. He was living in a property owned by his family so didnt have 
any rental or mortgage outgoings. It said he was looking to take the maximum possible tax-
free cash (TFC) to fund a holiday, pay for a new car and increase his savings to help his 
daughter pay for her wedding. Portal also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to 
risk, which it deemed to be balanced. 
On 5 April 2017 Portal advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension, 
take the maximum available TFC, £22,191, and invest the remainder in a portfolio it 
recommended. The suitability report said the main reason for this recommendation was that 
the TFC would allow Mr M to pay for the things he was interested in funding. It also said the 
transfer would allow Mr M to meet his other objectives  which it said were greater flexibility 
in how he accessed the pension and the available death benefits, giving Mr M ownership 
and control of the fund, maximising the TFC in comparison to the current scheme and that 
he was willing to take investment risks. Portal said it believed the recommended scheme 
would deliver greater ongoing benefits than his current provider. 
Mr M complained in 2021 to Portal about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said hed 
been told by Portal that hed make more money in his pension fund by transferring. But he 
said the value of the benefits he was giving up by transferring was underplayed and not 
made clear to him. He also said he didnt feel a full assessment of his circumstances had 
taken place and he said he didnt have a need for TFC and there was no justifiable reason 
for recommending the transfer. 
Portal didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said the transfer allowed Mr M to achieve his 
objectives and that he had an immediate need to do so. It also said that, as Mr M had 
indicated he wasnt interested in an annuity, the critical yield was not as relevant as the 
lifetime hurdle rate. And it believed the hurdle rate was achievable. So, it felt the 
recommendation was suitable.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and thought 
Portal should pay compensation as well as £250 for the distress caused to Mr M. He said by 
transferring, he felt Mr M was always likely to be worse off financially as the critical yield was 
unlikely to be achieved, and he felt Portal hadnt been clear about this. He also didnt think 
the majority of the objectives listed were genuine and that Mr M did not have a pressing 
need for TFC. He also didnt think Mr M had any real capacity for loss as this pension made 
up the majority of his retirement provisions. So, he didnt think the recommendation was 
suitable.
Portal disagreed, saying it felt the relevant growth rate was achievable and that this had all 
been made clear to Mr M. It also said capacity for loss had been correctly considered. And it 
felt Mr M did have a need for TFC, which he had made clear.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. He said that he still didnt agree 
that there was a genuine need for TFC and didnt feel that Portal had explored this 
sufficiently  noting that the amount it had said Mr M needed was the maximum possible 
TFC but there was no explanation why this very specific amount was needed. And he also 
didnt think Mr M had sufficient capacity to absorb the reduction in retirement income  
particularly bearing in mind the relatively short period of time until retirement.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
After Portal had received details from Mr Ms existing scheme and completed the TVAS 
report it sent him a letter on 21 February 2017, saying it was ready to complete its review. 
The first paragraph of that letter said that options outlined would not be available until Mr Ms 
55th birthday. And then the second paragraph immediately emphasised how much tax-free 
cash Mr M might be able to release from his pension. It went on to say a call would have to 
now take place to understand Mr Ms circumstances and that options would be discussed 
including of course, the amount of tax-free cash you wish to take.  And it also said, in fact 
emphasising in bold, that the transfer value is guaranteed for a limited period of time only 
and if this needed to be re-calculated This could delay how long it will take to receive your 
tax-free cash.
This letter was sent before a fact-finding conversation had been completed or any details of Mr Ms aims or objectives had been obtained. Yet it was already strongly emphasising the 
release of TFC  involving a transfer of Mr Ms pension arrangements  how much could be 
released and suggesting a need for urgency. I think the emphasis placed on this before a 
fact find had happened is likely to have influenced Mr Ms thinking. And it is difficult, in my 
view, to say that this letter shows Portal started, as it was required to, with the assumption 
that a transfer was unsuitable. 
And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied transferring his pension was 
in Mr Ms best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The critical yield required to match Mr Ms benefits at age 60, when he wouldve been 
entitled to full benefits under the DB scheme, was 17.8% if he took a full pension and 15.4% 
if he took TFC and a reduced pension. 
This compares with the discount rate of 3.1% per year for 5 full years to retirement  the 
position Mr M was in. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
Portal categorised Mr Ms attitude to risk as balanced. And it said one of his objectives was 
Willing to take an investment risk. I dont think willingness to take a risk is an objective. And 
the level of risk isnt quantified within this statement. Some of the answers recorded in the 
attitude to risk questionnaire Portal has provided indicate that Mr M mightve been willing to 
take some risk. But Im also conscious he said that he had no investment experience and 
wanted to aim for a stable reliable return. 
Im also conscious this only related to his attitude to investment risk, rather than his capacity 
for loss. Portal says Mr Ms capacity for loss was considered and as he would have a state 
pension and held another pension scheme, he had sufficient capacity for loss. The other 
pension scheme was smaller than the one he transferred however (roughly 30% of the 
value). So, this DB scheme did make up the majority of his retirement provisions, outside of 
the state pension. And Im not convinced therefore that he was in a position to put this fund 
at significant risk.
Taking all of this into account, Im not sure Mr M did have a balanced attitude to risk. And I 
think he could in fact have been more cautious than this. But overall, I dont think this makes 
a difference to the outcome here.
Ive considered the discount rate, regulators projections and critical yield, along with the 
composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms attitude to risk, which Portal recorded as 
being balanced and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr M giving up 
the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same 
level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 15.4%, I 
think Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB 
scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. Portal says Mr M indicated he didnt intend to purchase an annuity, so the critical yield 
wasnt relevant here and it instead relied on a growth rate, or hurdle rate, of 4.2% - the rate it 
says the fund wouldve needed to grow at each year if Mr M had kept his money invested in 
the personal pension for his lifetime, using his assumed life expectancy, taking income as a 
flexible drawdown. And in the suitability report Portal talked about the average annual return 
on the investment it was recommending being 7.79% for the past ten years and 9.9% for the 
previous five years. And so, it said we believe that your new plan may match the critical 
yield and growth rate required.
I think this statement was mis-leading. Given the past growth figures quoted were less than 
10% and the lowest critical yield was 15.4% the statement that the plan may match the 
critical yield doesnt appear to be supported. And in any event, as Portal in fact noted in the 
suitability report, past performance is no guarantee for future performance. And so, I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward. So, the statement 
that the growth rate would be matched is also questionable.
Im also not sure that the growth rate quoted is entirely accurate as it doesnt appear to 
account for the actual level of ongoing charges Mr M would pay under the new plan. The 
TVAS report doesnt suggest that ongoing charges are factored into the growth rate 
projections at all. It does note in the data used section a charge of 1% is assumed  but not 
that this was factored into the modelling. In any event though the suitability report suggests 
the provider charges and Portals ongoing management charge amount to at least 1.45%. 
So even if the 1% mentioned in the TVAS has been used, this is less than Mr M would have 
paid. So, the required growth rate appears to have potentially been inaccurate.
But regardless of this, I dont agree with Portal that the critical yield was not relevant here. 
The benefits under the DB scheme were guaranteed and would continue to escalate in 
retirement. The critical yield is the return required to purchase guaranteed equivalent 
benefits - which was what the regulator wanted businesses to do when comparing schemes. 
And the growth rate doesnt do that, because the benefits it outlines remain subject to 
investment risk throughout retirement and arent guaranteed. I am therefore satisfied that it is 
appropriate to use the critical yield to measure the value of the benefits being given up and 
not the hurdle rate.
And taking everything into account, from a financial viability perspective the transfer doesnt 
appear to have been in Mr Ms best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean 
a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
Portal said Mr M wanted more flexibility in terms of how he could take his pension benefits  
as he didnt want to take an income yet but needed TFC to take a holiday, pay for a new car 
and increase his savings to assist his daughter with her wedding.
Like our Investigator, I dont think Mr M needed TFC. I accept he mayve had a list of things 
in mind that he might do if money became available to him  which he mayve thought about 
previously or mayve begun thinking about after the initial letter from Portal emphasised the 
level of TFC that could be available. But I think when presented with the potential opportunity 
to receive a lump sum, most people would be able to say what they might do with the 
money. I dont think though that this means any of the things Mr M listed were needs. And 
Portals role wasnt simply to transact what Mr M mightve thought he wanted.
I also cant see evidence that Mr M had a strong need for variable income throughout his retirement. The fact find recorded that Mr M expected to need approximately £250 per week 
from age 65 onwards, when he intended to retire. Until then, he intended to continue working 
to meet his income needs.
Under the DB scheme Mr M was entitled to take benefits at age 60. And Portal has recorded 
that he couldve either taken an income of £4,981 per year and £14,756 in TFC or a reduced 
pension of £3,998 per year and TFC of £26,651  several thousand pounds more than he 
got as a result of Portals advice. The annual pension amount in either scenario was 
guaranteed and would have continued to escalate in retirement. And so, when combined 
with his state pension entitlement this would appear likely to have met his recorded income 
needs. So, I dont think Mr M had a need to transfer and take significant additional risk to 
increase his pension fund.
I accept the DB scheme benefits wouldve begun before Mr M intended to retire. But this 
wouldve provided him with an additional income in the interim. And I havent seen anything 
to suggest that this wouldve been unwelcome.
Death benefits
Portal said in its suitability report that Mr M was interested in greater flexibility with regard to 
the death benefits the policy provided  as he wanted the pension to benefit his daughter in 
the event of his death. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Portal explored to what extent 
Mr M was prepared to accept the significant additional risk and likely lower retirement 
income in exchange for alternative death benefits.
In addition, the sum remaining on death under the personal pension was dependent on 
investment performance and would be reduced by any income Mr M drew. And as the 
cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum left, particularly if Mr M lived 
a long life. I understand that Mr M now has health conditions that might impact his life 
expectancy. But these appear to have arisen more recently as, at the time of the advice, he 
was recorded as being in good health. So, there was nothing to suggest at that time that his 
life expectancy was likely to be lower than normal. And in any event, Portal should not have 
encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his daughter, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I 
think Portal shouldve instead explored life insurance. But I cant see that this was discussed 
at the time of the advice to transfer. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control 
Portal said one of Mr Ms other objectives was to have ownership and control over the pension. But I think Mr Ms desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr M 
was not an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the 
knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was 
a genuine objective for Mr M  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB 
scheme.
Suitability of investments
Portal recommended that Mr M invest in a specific portfolio. As Im upholding the complaint 
on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr M, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr M should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. And I 
accept the prospect of a cash lump sum mayve been appealing and that Mr M mayve 
thought of uses for this. But again, Portal wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr M needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr M shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
DB scheme to release TFC for the purposes that were listed, as none of these, in my view, 
represented a genuine need.
So, I think Portal shouldve advised Mr M to remain in their DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against Portal's 
advice. 
Portal has said that Mr M has drawn benefits from the personal pension, since its advice. So, 
it thinks this indicates Mr M would always have transferred as he had a need to access 
pension benefits. 
Ive considered this carefully, but I dont think Mr M making flexible drawdowns after this 
facility had been made available means he would always have transferred in 2017. 
According to the information recorded at the time by Portal, Mr M didnt want an income from 
his pension. He was only looking to take TFC. So, this didnt seem to be one of his 
objectives at the time and doesnt appear to have been a need. And so, I dont think him now 
using the facility  given that circumstances change, most notably in this case Mr Ms health 
 means that with hindsight Mr M would always have insisted on transferring.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Portals advice. Mr M was an inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for 
the majority of his retirement provision. Im not persuaded that he had a genuine need for 
TFC, or that his preferences for death benefits were so great, such that he wouldve insisted 
on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, 
didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. So, if Portal had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think this wouldve carried significant weight and I think Mr M wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that Portal also pay Mr M £250 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr M has been caused distress and concern in relation 
to his retirement planning. And this wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice. 
And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, I think Mr M wouldve remained invested in the DB scheme and taken benefits at 
the normal scheme retirement age. So, this should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition, Portal should pay Mr M £250 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman