DRN-1069409
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that MYJAR Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr M was given eight loans by MYJAR between June 2016 and September 2017. Loan 1 
was repayable in three monthly instalments. The remaining loans were repayable over six 
months. All of Mr Ms loans have been fully repaid and a summary of his borrowing from 
MYJAR is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment DateLoan 
Amount 
1 08/01/2017 03/02/2017 £  275
2 10/02/2017 28/02/2017 £  300
3 01/03/2017 31/07/2017 £  700
4 29/12/2017 29/03/2018 £  200
5 31/03/2018 31/05/2018 £  550
6 01/06/2018 31/08/2018 £  300
7 18/10/2018 31/01/2019 £  275
8 08/03/2019 11/04/2019 £  400
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think MYJAR had 
been wrong to give the first five loans to Mr M. But he didnt think the remaining loans should 
have been agreed. So he asked MYJAR to pay Mr M some compensation.
MYJAR didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr M accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
MYJAR did some checks before it lent to Mr M. It asked him for details of his income, and 
his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Ive seen a 
summary of those checks and I dont think they showed anything that should have caused 
additional concerns to the lender.
I think that the checks MYJAR did before agreeing the first four loans were proportionate. 
The amounts that Mr M needed to repay were relatively small compared with the disposable 
income hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for MYJAR to ask him for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans.
But I think, by the time Mr M asked for loan 5, that MYJAR should have realised that it 
couldnt safely rely on the information he was providing about his finances. This was now 
Mr Ms fifth loan and even allowing for the five month gap between loans 3 and 4 hed been 
borrowing for a considerable period of time. The amount Mr M was asking to borrow had also increased significantly from his previous loan. So I think MYJAR should have taken 
steps at that time to independently verify Mr Ms true financial position. 
We asked Mr M for copies of his bank statements so we could see what better checks would 
have shown MYJAR. He didnt provide these to us. So Im not able to say that better checks 
would have shown MYJAR that it shouldnt have given loan 5 to Mr M.
But looking at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history with Mr M I think by loan 6 the 
lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt provide further borrowing from 
that point onwards. 
This was now the sixth loan that Mr M had taken from MYJAR and he'd been borrowing for a 
period of almost 17 months. Mr M had repaid most of his previous loans far earlier than had 
been planned but then borrowed again shortly afterwards. I think that pattern of frequent 
borrowing and repaying early should have indicated to MYJAR that Mr M was most likely 
having significant problems managing his money. And Mr M continued borrowing from 
MYJAR for a further ten months with only short breaks between his loans.
I think that Mr M lost out when MYJAR agree to give him loans 6 to 8 because the loans had 
the effect of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit 
intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. The sheer number of loans Mr 
M was given was likely to have had negative implications on his ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So I dont think MYJAR should have given loans 6 to 8 to Mr M and needs to pay him some 
compensation. 
Putting things right
I dont think MYJAR should have agreed to lend to Mr M after, and including, the loan that he 
took on 1 June 2018. So for each of those loans MYJAR should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr M on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 to 8 should be removed from 
Mr M's credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ms complaint and direct MYJAR Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2019.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman