DRN-2740094
The complaint
Mr Rs unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) has 
declined to cover his claim on his pet insurance policy and has added an exclusion to his 
policy that he thinks is too wide. 
Any reference to Red Sands includes its agents. 
What happened
On 30 July 2020, Mr R took his new pet dog for an initial visit to the vet. The clinical notes 
from that time refer to blood in the dogs stools, sickness and watery stools. The vet noted 
possible stress colitis at the time. Mr Rs explained the vet recommended he give his dog a 
bland diet which stopped the diarrhoea. 
A few days later, on 2 August 2020, Mr R took out an insurance policy with Red Sands to 
cover veterinary treatment for his dog. And in October 2020, Mr R made a claim on the 
policy after his dog suffered from diarrhoea again on 2 October 2020. 
Red Sands declined the claim as it said it was excluded as a pre-existing medical condition 
under the terms of the policy. And it excluded any future claims relating to the digestive 
system. It thought Mr Rs dog had experienced diarrhoea before the policy was taken out 
and within the first 14 days of the start date of the policy. It highlighted the clinical notes from 
30 July 2020 and further notes on 7 August 2020 which said Mr Rs dog had loose and 
watery diarrhoea 15 to 20 times per day up to 5 August 2020 when his diet was changed. 
Mr R didnt think Red Sands decision was fair as he says the different times his dog had 
diarrhoea were unrelated and mustve been caused by different things. In October 2020, 
Mr Rs vet sent Red Sands an email explaining the diarrhoea in July 2020 was caused by 
stress and the later episode in October 2020 was likely a bacterial infection. 
As Red Sands continued to decline the claim, Mr R asked our service to look into things. He 
said diarrhoea isnt a condition but a symptom of something else. He also thinks the 
exclusion thats been added to the policy is too wide and instead, stress colitis should be 
excluded as thats what caused the diarrhoea before the start date. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint as he thought Red Sands had acted in line with the terms. As Mr R 
didnt agree with our investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, I know Mr R will be very disappointed. Ill explain 
why. 
Declined claim
Ive looked carefully at the relevant terms of the policy Mr R held with Red Sands as set out 
in the policy summary and the policy document. In summary, they say claims for, or relating 
to a pre-existing condition or illness that first showed clinical signs before the start of the 
policy or, within the first 14 days wont be covered. So the question for me is whether Mr Rs 
dog did have a pre-existing condition or illness within the terms.
Having looked at the clinical notes weve been given, I can see the vet said Mr Rs dog had 
loose and watery diarrhoea on a number of occasions shortly before the appointment on 
7 August 2020. The note says it had cleared up around two days previously after changing 
the food he was eating. But it seems to me the period during which Mr Rs dog was still 
experiencing diarrhoea was within the first 14 days of the policy.
I know Mr R doesnt agree diarrhoea is a medical condition  and instead he says its a 
symptom of something else. So he doesnt think the claim should be declined as he says the 
diarrhoea was caused by different things before and after the policy started. But the policy 
terms also exclude illnesses. And this is defined, amongst other things, as any change in the 
pets normal healthy state. Whilst I understand Mr Rs point, Im satisfied the diarrhoea his 
dog experienced was a change in his normal healthy state and was therefore an illness 
under the policy terms. As this happened in the first 14 days of the policy, I dont agree 
Red Sands has declined the claim unfairly. 
Ive seen the email from Mr Rs vet which says the episodes of diarrhoea are unrelated as 
they were caused by different things. But from what Ive seen, it seems to me the vet didnt 
diagnose Mr Rs dog in July 2020  as the notes suggest stress colitis was a possible cause. 
In any event, considering what Ive said above, I dont think Red Sands has acted outside 
the terms. So this doesnt change my findings in this case.
Added exclusions
I understand Mr R doesnt think Red Sands should exclude all claims relating to the digestive 
system as a result of his dog having diarrhoea. But its given us its underwriting guide which 
it says is relevant to this case. And Im satisfied it directs Red Sands to apply the exclusion 
as its done. So in this case, Im unable to direct it to do anything different from its guidance 
(which would apply to all policies) or change its criteria. And overall, Im not persuaded 
Red Sands has treated Mr R unfairly or acted outside its policy terms. 
My final decision
Its my decision that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision 
before 8 July 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman