DRN-3208903
The complaint
Mr L complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him irresponsibly and provided him 
with unaffordable lending.
What happened
AvantCredit provided a loan to Mr L as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayable
20/10/2014 £1,100 18 months £94.28 £1,697.01
When Mr L complained to AvantCredit it didnt uphold his complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought that AvantCredit shouldnt 
have provided the loan. Our investigator explained why he was recommending that the 
complaint should be upheld and he set out directions indicating what AvantCredit should 
do to put things right. 
AvantCredit disagreed with our investigator. It mainly said that it had verified Mr Ls income 
and after allowing for his stated outgoings and monthly repayments on his credit file and its 
loan, he would still have around £246 disposable income left. It acknowledged a recent 
default but said that Mr L hadnt taken out any new accounts since then and his total 
indebtedness hadnt gone up in the 3-6mths prior to him applying for this loan.  
AvantCredit asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint so it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Ls complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
I have reviewed the information AvantCredit gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. 
AvantCredit verified Mr Ls declared income and recorded that his pay was around £960 per 
month. Alongside asking Mr L about his monthly expenses, AvantCredit also carried out its 
own credit checks to understand his credit history and current credit commitments. 
Like our investigator, I think AvantCredit should have been concerned to see that when Mr L 
applied for this loan the credit report it obtained for him showed that he had a default shown 
that had occurred just 4 months earlier  and this was his third default in three years.
Over the previous year his total debt balance had increased by £3,748 and his total balances 
on active accounts (not including any mortgage) was £5,092, costing him £219 per month. 
Whilst having other outstanding lending or an impaired credit history wouldnt be unusual for 
a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt necessarily be a fair 
reason not to lend, I dont think AvantCredit took properly into account what the information it 
had gathered showed about Mr Ls overall financial situation and the likelihood of him being 
able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner.  
AvantCredit understood that Mr L intended to spend the money on home improvements so it 
was aware its loan would add to his overall indebtedness at a time when all the indications 
were that he wasnt able to sustainably afford his existing credit commitments. Also, bearing 
in mind the repayment of this loan on top of the debt AvantCredit saw Mr L was already 
responsible for paying, I think its fair to say that Mr L needed to pay a significant portion of 
his income towards credit  by my reckoning, almost a third. 
In my opinion, as a responsible lender, AvantCredit shouldve realised that Mr L would likely 
struggle to repay this loan with this level of take home pay committed just to servicing his 
unsecured debt especially bearing in mind hed signed up to pay the loan over the next 
18 months and Mr Ls relatively low income also didnt leave him much of a margin for any 
fluctuation in his outgoings or emergency spending needs.
I think our investigator was right to say that, whatever its affordability calculations suggested, 
the signs were that, in reality, Mr Ls finances were already over-stretched and he couldnt 
support the debt he already had. 
I dont think AvantCredit was reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that 
Mr L would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way. And I agree with our 
investigator that the payment problems Mr L soon ran into with the loan were reasonably 
foreseeable and bear out the lack of sustainable affordability that the information AvantCredit 
had gathered suggested. The fact that Mr L repaid the loan in April 2017 doesnt mean that 
he was able to do so in a way that was sustainably affordable. So this doesnt affect my view 
overall.
Thinking about all the information AvantCredit had gathered, I cant reasonably say that it 
made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think AvantCredit was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for 
Mr L. So it shouldnt have provided it and AvantCredit needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr L to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not 
have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr L shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed. AvantCredit should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr L received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr L made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr L having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
    whilst its fair that Mr Ls credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So AvantCredit should remove any 
negative information recorded on Mr Ls credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Mr L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman