DRN-2283063
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank plc acted unfairly when it closed their joint 
bank accounts. Mrs M also complains that HSBC UK Bank plc failed to collect payments for 
her credit card account and wrongly defaulted it.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs M had a joint current account and a joint savings account with HSBC. Mrs M 
also had a credit card account with HSBC in her sole name.
Mr G and Mrs M say HSBC sent them a letter on 7 March 2019 to tell them that both of the 
joint accounts would be closed on 10 May 2019. They say HSBC said it would send a 
cheque for any balances in the accounts after this date. But it didnt do that. Mrs M visited 
one of HSBCs branches but it refused to give her the funds in the accounts. Mr G and Mrs 
M say they were unable to access the funds when they needed to pay medical bills. They 
say HSBC has discriminated against them because of their nationality.
Mrs M says that shed set up a direct debit payment from the current account to pay her 
credit card account. She says HSBC failed, after December 2018, to collect the monthly 
payments due. She says HSBC should have collected these payments since the current 
account was in credit and HSBC said it wouldnt be closed until 10 May 2019.
Mrs M also says that HSBC couldve collected the payments by transferring money from the 
current account. She says it said in its letter dated 7 March 2019 it could do this and also 
confirmed this to her in August 2019.
Mrs M says HSBC has defaulted the credit card account and this has adversely affected her 
credit file.
Mr G and Mrs M complained to HSBC.
HSBC investigated their complaint. It said it had given Mr G and Mrs M two months notice of 
its intention to close their joint accounts. And, it had sent correspondence to the address 
which it held on its records. HSBC acknowledged that Mrs M had to spend a long time in the 
branch when shed attended it. So, it offered to pay her £50 by way of compensation for the 
trouble and upset shed been caused.
HSBC also said it had written to Mrs M in December 2018 to tell her the direct debit to pay 
her credit card had been cancelled. It said it wasnt required to make payments, by way of 
set-off, to the credit card account from the joint account. It had sent her notices about the 
arrears on her credit card, but she hadnt made any payments. So, it hadnt done anything 
wrong when it defaulted the account and provided information to credit reference agencies.
Mr G and Mrs M werent satisfied with these responses. So, they complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into their complaint. He said the joint accounts had been closed in 
line with the terms and conditions. Notices had been posted to them and sent by online 
banking. He said Mrs M was informed that the direct debits were cancelled and all the 
necessary notices to tell Mrs M that the credit card had defaulted had been sent. He also 
said that HSBC wasnt required to exercise its right of set-off but it had done this after the 
account had gone to the collections team. He didnt uphold their complaint.
Mr G and Mrs M didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G and Mrs M have raised several issues. For clarity, Ill deal with each separately.
Closure of Joint Accounts
When a bank decides to close an account, wed expect it to give its customer 
reasonable notice before it goes ahead and closes the account.
Its fair and reasonable for a bank to want to know more about its customers. In this 
case HSBC had contacted Mr G and Mrs M on several occasions throughout 2018 
asking them to provide it with further information. It also warned them that if the 
information wasnt provided it wouldnt be able to continue to provide banking 
services to them. It was only after this, and when it hadnt received the information it 
required, that the decision was made to close the accounts.
I can see that HSBC sent a notice to Mr G and Mrs M dated 7 March 2019. It stated 
that HSBC had decided to close Mr G and Mrs Ms joint accounts (a savings account 
and a current account) on 10 May 2019.
Ive checked the terms and conditions for the accounts. These state that HSBC can 
close the accounts provided it gives two months notice. The terms and conditions 
dont require it to provide a reason for its decision. I can see that when 
communicating its decision HSBC acted in line with its own terms and conditions and 
provided two months notice.
Its not for our service to tell HSBC who it can and cannot have a banking relationship 
with. Thats a commercial decision for it. But it is the case that HSBC should ensure 
that it isnt making a decision for a reason which is discriminatory.
In this case HSBC says that after contacting Mr G and Mrs M, on several occasions, 
it didnt get the information itd requested. It had already warned them of the possible 
consequences. So, I dont think it treated them unfairly or differently to how it 
wouldve treated its other customers in these circumstances.
The credit card account
Mrs M had a credit card account with HSBC. I can see that on 21 December 2018 
HSBC wrote to her to inform her that the direct debit from the joint current account 
had been cancelled and she needed to make alternative arrangements to make 
payments to the credit card account. The direct debit payment for December was 
reversed and no further direct debits were collected.
The letter dated 21 December 2018 was sent to Mrs M through My Docs. This was 
the way that correspondence and statements were sent for credit cards. Mrs M says 
she never got this document. But I can see that she was registered for online banking. The terms and conditions which shed accepted stated that HSBC could 
send documents to her electronically. So, Im satisfied she wouldve been able to 
access the letter through her online banking.
She also wouldve been able to view her statements online. If shed done that, she 
wouldve seen that the direct debit had been reversed in December and no further 
payments had been credited to her account.
Because no payments were made to the account, arrears started to build up and a 
default notice was issued on 29 March 2019. It made clear that if a payment wasnt 
made by 19 April 2019 the account would be defaulted and this information would be 
recorded with credit reference agencies. Mrs M didnt make any payments and a 
demand for repayment of the full amount was issued on 1 May 2019. It appears that 
it was July 2019 before Mrs M contacted HSBC about the account. But, by that stage 
the default had already been recorded.
Mrs M says that HSBC should have continued to collect the direct debits in the period 
from December 2018 up to the date when the joint current account was closed in 
May 2019. But as Ive mentioned above HSBC had written to her to advise that the 
direct debit arrangement had been cancelled in December 2018 and she needed to 
make alternative arrangements to make the payments. She hadnt done that.
Mrs M also says that HSBC could have applied funds from the joint account to the 
credit card by way of set-off. She says it was able to do this subsequently, in August 
2019.
The terms and conditions for the current account say that HSBC may exercise its 
right of set-off if money is owed to it. But itll only do this if it thinks its reasonable and 
itll normally provide a warning before doing it. The terms and conditions also say 
HSBC needs to follow any regulatory requirements. So, I agree with our investigator 
when he said HSBC wasnt required to exercise its right of set-off. And, in any case, 
HSBC says it wouldnt normally exercise its right of set-off before closing the account 
and paying out any balance to the account holder. I think thats fair and reasonable.
So, having considered this, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong when it defaulted 
the credit card and registered the default with credit reference agencies.
Poor service
Mrs M has also complained about poor service. Shes mentioned how she was 
treated when she visited a branch in July 2019. She says she needed to be able to 
access the funds in the joint account to pay for medical bills. And shes referred to 
how long she was in the branch.
HSBC has apologised for the length of time Mrs M was in the branch. It also said the 
branch couldnt give her any money out of the account because it had already been 
closed on its systems. And, any withdrawals from the account could only be 
permitted once sign off had been obtained from HSBCs compliance team.
Mrs M says HSBC has discriminated against her on grounds of her nationality.
As mentioned above our service looks at whats fair and reasonable, taking into
consideration the laws, regulations and circumstances of each case.
Having done so, Im satisfied that the branch couldnt access the balance in the 
account on the date when Mrs M visited it because the account was closed, and any withdrawal wouldve required sign off from the compliance team. Mrs M was being 
treated in line with HSBCs usual policy which applied to all its customers.
I can see that the funds in the account were subsequently applied to pay off the 
credit card and the balance was paid to Mr G and Mrs M in November 2019.
HSBC offered to pay £50 by way of compensation for the poor service Mrs M 
received in the branch. I can understand how frustrating it mustve been for Mrs M 
when she couldnt get access to the funds in the closed account. But, as Ive said 
above, I dont think the branch did anything wrong when it said it couldnt access the 
funds in the account.
In these circumstances I think the offer of £50 compensation was fair and 
reasonable. So, I dont intend to require HSBC to do anything more.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above Ive provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint 
about HSBC UK Bank plc.
In response to my provisional decision, HSBC said it had nothing further to add.
Mr G and Mrs M have not responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since I made my provisional decision no further information has been provided. In these 
circumstances I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I indicated in my provisional 
decision. 
I remain of the view that this complaint should not be upheld for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman