DRN-1844884
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a Silver Added Value Account (Silver AVA) by Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
What happened
Mr M held a Select Added Value Account from January 2007 which incurred a monthly fee.
Mr M upgraded to a Platinum Added Value Account in February 2010 which also incurred a 
monthly fee.
He then downgraded to a Classic fee free account in February 2013.
Mr M upgraded back to a Silver AVA in June 2015 which incurred a fee again.
The sales of the Select and Platinum accounts are out of this services jurisdiction for the 
reasons previously explained to both parties, so Im not able to look at those. 
So, this decision is about whether the Silver AVA was not mis-sold.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ms complaint about the Silver AVA and said it wasnt mis-
sold. Mr M disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
In my view the Silver AVA wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
At the time of the Silver AVA sale, I think its more likely than not that Mr M was aware he 
could have an account with no fee at any time as hed had one without a fee previously, and 
they have always been openly available from many banks and financial institutions. 
Mr M says he was sold the Silver AVA because he didnt understand what he was buying 
due to his poor English. He thought he was told he had to have one to get better conditions 
for the overdraft he wanted. 
I dont doubt his honest recollections, but I think he is mistaken. I say this because he had 
held two types of packaged bank account before for over 5 years, so in my view he was very 
familiar with the products and capable of understanding them. Lloyds has provided evidence 
that he didnt use an overdraft facility for many years after taking out the account. And Lloyds 
has provided its record of the discussion at the time, which doesnt mention the overdraft 
facility as one of his needs. So, I think its more likely than not that he was able to 
understand what he was buying, and the overdraft facility was not a factor in his decision to 
take the Silver AVA out.
So, I think Mr M knew the Silver AVA was optional, and he chose to take it out.
Its not clear from the evidence whether Lloyds recommended the account to Mr M, but Im 
going to assume that it did, as this is to Mr Ms advantage and doesnt affect the outcome of 
my decision.
If Lloyds advised Mr M to take out the Silver AVA, it needed to not only provide him with 
enough information about the Silver AVA to make an informed choice. It also needed to take 
adequate steps to ensure that the Silver AVA was a reasonable fit for Mr Ms circumstances.
The Silver AVA contained a range of benefits including European travel insurance, AA 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, and sentinel card protection. It cost £9.95 a 
month.
I dont know what Lloyds said or what information it gave Mr M, but I think he would have 
been interested in and eligible for these benefits. I say this because Mr M says he had a car 
and a mobile phone at the time of the sale; and Lloyds has provided evidence that he 
travelled to Europe after the sale.
Lloyds has also provided evidence that it had a discussion with Mr M about the Silver AVA, 
identified his needs, and he has signed the application form to say he wanted it.
Mr M could have closed the Silver AVA at any time, but he didnt for many years and he still 
has it. And the fact that he didnt use all the benefits was a matter of choice for him.
So, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds advice to Mr M to take out the Silver AVA was 
suitable. And there was no information that he didnt receive that would likely have put him 
off it. And I dont think Mr M lost out by taking out the Silver AVA or through anything Lloyds 
may have done wrong
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman