Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a secured 
loan. Mrs B says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold this policy to her.
I see Mrs B has had a number of similar Halifax complaints, so to be clear this is about the 
loan number ending 349-8 taken out in April 2000.
Background
Mrs B took out a 10-year secured loan for £6,000. At the same time she bought a PPI policy 
to protect her loan repayments in the event of becoming unable to work or losing her job. 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld but Mrs B disagreed with 
this and its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Weve spoken at length to Halifax about these types of loans and as a consequence we 
know quite a bit about how they were generally sold. We know, for example, that consumers 
normally met with a branch advisor to discuss their requirements. And we know that as a 
result of that discussion, a credit agreement was produced with all the relevant details on it. 
The consumer was then invited to check and sign the agreement to complete the process.
Halifax has sent me a copy of the credit agreement for this loan. Its the type of agreement 
Ive seen many times and theres a section on it about PPI. There were two boxes available 
on the form to either say yes or no to having a PPI with the loan. I can see the yes box 
was ticked and the other one was left blank. Because Mrs B did this and signed the form, I 
think this shows she agreed to have the PPI and would have known she had a choice.
I also know Halifaxs sales processes usually meant that these types of sales were advised 
sales. This means the PPI was recommended to her and so Halifax had a duty to make sure 
the PPI was suitable for Mrs Bs needs. I think it was.
I think this because this was a relatively long-term loan secured against her home. So the 
consequences of not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. I accept Mrs 
B says she already had some protection from sickness at work. But in my view, this doesnt 
make the policy unsuitable.
DRN-1155605This is because the unemployment and sickness protection in the policy lasted much longer 
than what Mrs B had in place with her job, and at around £8 per month I dont think this 
would have been unaffordable. In the event of a successful claim, the policy could have 
covered the loan repayments for 1 year for unemployment  and for 5 years in the event of 
sickness. This was in addition to any other means she had in place. So I think the policy was 
suitable.
I cant say Mrs B would have been told everything she should have been. But I note the 
costs of both the loan and PPI were shown on the agreement. So I think she knew the costs 
and who was covered. 
To uphold this case Id need to think Mrs B was made to buy the policy back in 2000, or that 
there were other flaws in the sale. I simply dont have that evidence. And looking at her 
situation, I think its more likely she agreed to the policy because it was something she 
wanted to have. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. And I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman