DRN-2482017
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank PLC treated them unfairly when the term of their 
interest only mortgage expired. They ask that Lloyds extends the term. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out an interest only mortgage with Lloyds in 2009 to buy a second 
property. They bought this property to use as a second home and holiday let, intending to 
move into it after they retire. In the meantime, they live in a house they own without a 
mortgage which they intend to sell to repay the mortgage. Mr and Mrs B say each of their 
properties are worth more than the mortgage balance. 
The term of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage expired in mid-2019 with an unpaid balance. They 
dont want to sell either property at this time. Mr and Mrs B asked Lloyds to extend the 
mortgage term to the end of 2021, by which time theyll both receive state pensions, and 
offered to pay interest in advance. Lloyds declined this. 
Our investigator said Lloyds hadnt been unfair when it declined to extend the mortgage as 
Mr and Mrs B have the means to repay it. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. Mrs B said they intend to repay the mortgage and are able to do 
so, but want some flexibility with the timing. She said their plans were affected by changes in 
the state pension age and their adult son still living at home. Mrs B also said Lloyds had 
made numerous mistakes and failed to respond to her letters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 2009 to buy a second property. The term 
has expired with an unpaid balance.
Mr and Mrs B have explained why theyd like the term extended. They intend to sell the 
house they currently live in, but dont want to do this until they are both receiving state 
pensions in late 2021. Also, their adult son lives with them. Mr and Mrs B have retired and 
live on private pension income and savings. They dont want to draw on all of their pensions 
yet as theyve been told this would reduce the value of the pensions. They dont want to sell 
the mortgaged property as they intend to move into it. 
Mr and Mrs B asked Lloyds to extend the mortgage term to late 2021 and offered to pay the 
interest in advance. Lloyds said extending the mortgage term on this basis isnt something it 
offers. 
Lloyds says it discussed Mr and Mrs Bs options with them. A repayment mortgage wasnt 
affordable. Mr and Mrs B didnt like the idea of equity release and they didnt meet criteria for 
a retirement interest only mortgage. Mrs B told Lloyds theyd spoken to a broker but there 
were no options for them. Lloyds said the only option they had to repay the mortgage was to 
sell one of their properties. In August 2019, Lloyds said it would allow them eight months to 
market and sell their property before taking recovery action.
The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, repayment strategy 
before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages. Mr and Mrs B want to vary their 
mortgage by extending the term.
Theres an exception to this for mortgages taken out before 2014 which might apply here. In 
summary, Lloyds might be able to agree to extend the term of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
regardless of affordability or their repayment strategy, if its in Mr and Mrs Bs best interests. 
I should say that this doesnt mean Lloyds cant consider affordability, and ask for 
information about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances to do so. It can fairly take this into account 
when considering whats in Mr and Mrs Bs best interests. I should also say that while the 
exception allows Lloyds to agree to vary the mortgage despite concerns about affordability it 
isnt required to do so. It could still fairly decline to extend the term for another reason. 
Ive taken these rules on mortgage regulation into account when considering whether Lloyds 
treated Mr and Mrs B fairly.
Mr and Mrs B told Lloyds theyd retired and were living on pension income and savings. This 
suggests they dont need to be near a place of work. Mr and Mrs B told Lloyds their son is 
financially independent. 
Mr and Mrs B told Lloyds they arent letting out their second property as theyre preparing to 
move in. So they can move into the property at any time. And they arent receiving an 
income from it that theyre relying on. In fact, Mr and Mrs B have said they have substantial 
savings which they can use towards their mortgage payments if they need to. Selling a 
property and repaying the mortgage would reduce Mr and Mrs Bs outgoings, and reduce the 
risk of them needing to use their savings to meet mortgage payments. 
The only reason Mr and Mrs B have given for wanting the term extended is to co-ordinate it 
with them both receiving state pensions. But they havent explained why they cant sell one 
of the properties before this, or how waiting until they receive their state pensions will 
improve matters. Mr and Mrs B dont want to draw on all of their private pensions, but 
repaying the mortgage by the sale of the property wouldnt require this.
Mr and Mrs B have said each property is currently worth enough to repay the mortgage, and 
properties near to their house have sold quickly. Theres no guarantee this would remain the 
case at the end of any extension. 
Mr and Mrs B borrowed the money and they do have to pay it back. Fairness suggests as a 
starting point they did this when the term expired, in mid-2019. This is what Mr and Mrs B 
agreed to do when they took out the mortgage. Mr and Mrs B feel strongly they should be 
allowed to repay the money in late 2021  which would fit in better with their plans. But I 
dont think this makes it fair to require Lloyds to wait for its money to be repaid. 
Mr and Mrs B told Lloyds in June 2020 they have health conditions which mean they are at 
risk from Covid-19, which might make it difficult to market their property while they live in it. I 
understand their concerns, and the Government has issued advice on moving home during 
the Covid-19 outbreak. Unfortunately, we dont know when the situation will return to normal. 
I dont think its fair to ask Lloyds to wait for this, especially as Mr and Mrs B could move into 
their other property if they are concerned about being there when potential buyers visit.Overall, I dont think its reasonable or fair to require Lloyds to offer Mr and Mrs B the term 
extension they asked for. 
While Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds didnt respond to their letters or review their options, I dont 
think thats fair. Lloyds didnt send a substantive response to their letters. Instead it asked Mr 
and Mrs B to contact its end of term team to discuss their options  which they did. It didnt 
agree to their request to extend the term. But, as Ive said, it didnt have to. 
What happens now?
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and related Government restrictions, the regulator issued 
guidelines to lenders. Current guidelines say absent exceptional circumstances no-one 
should have their home repossessed before 1 April 2021. Lloyds should take this, and any 
further guidance into account.
Its about 18 months since the term expired. I think its reasonable for Lloyds to expect Mr 
and Mrs B to take steps to repay their mortgage. Mr and Mrs B should keep Lloyds informed 
about the steps theyre taking to repay the mortgage. I must remind Lloyds of its duty to treat 
Mr and Mrs B fairly. And Lloyds should of course take guidance issued by the regulator into 
account. But ultimately if Mr and Mrs B arent able to repay the mortgage it will be entitled to 
take possession of the mortgaged property as a last resort. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman