DRN-4236593
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBG) declined their 
claim for accidental damage to their home.
Mr and Mrs B had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by LBG. The policy was in 
joint names, but Ill refer mainly to Mr B for ease of reading.
What happened
Mr B engaged the services of a local tradesman to jet wash the exterior brickwork of his 
house. When the work was done, Mr B found that the mortar had come away in places. He 
believed it was accidental damage, so he made a claim under his home insurance policy.
LBG declined his claim under the policy exclusion of poor workmanship. That was because 
the tradesman shouldve used the correct pressure to clean the brickwork. Failure to do so 
resulted in the damage.
Mr B was unhappy with LBGs response, so he complained. He said LBG hadnt handled his 
claim well and he didnt think it was fair to decline his claim just because a third party caused 
the damage accidentally.
LBG sent Mr B its final response explaining that the policy didnt provide cover for damage 
caused due to poor workmanship. So Mr B brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint because she agreed with LBG that the policy 
didnt provide cover for the poor workmanship.
Mr B didnt agree. He said just because a third party caused the damage, it doesnt mean it 
wasn't an accident. His complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The circumstances leading to the claim are not in dispute. The complaint is about LBG 
declining the claim based on a policy exclusion which Mr B doesnt think applies in the 
circumstances.
Mr Bs policy included accidental damage cover. Accidental damage is defined in the policy 
documents as follows:
Accidental damage - Unexpected and unintended damage caused by sudden means.
Mr B asked the tradesman to jet wash his brickwork. LBG said if the wrong pressure setting 
is used, it can damage the brickwork. Mr B said the damage was caused by the jet washing. 
He confirmed there was no damage before the work. This evidence suggests the tradesman 
used the wrong pressure setting, or there was an underlying problem with Mr Bs brickwork. 
Mr B said he doesnt know the tradesmans qualifications, so he relied on having seen their 
work in the area. Thats reasonable. I think its also reasonable to expect the tradesman to 
clean the brickwork without causing damage. I understand work might not always go 
smoothly, but if damage is being caused Id expect the tradesman to stop what they were 
doing and/or change the pressure. 
So, I think its reasonable for LBG to say it wasnt accidental damage because the work was 
planned, and the brickwork was damaged throughout the cleaning process. I agree that it 
doesnt meet the definition of accidental damage - unexpected and unintended damage 
caused by sudden means.
Ive noted Mr Bs disappointment that the policy covers accidental damage, yet it doesnt 
provide cover if the damage is caused by a third party. I dont think thats necessarily the 
case. The point here is that Mr B employed someone to clean his brickwork, so there was a 
contract for services. If Mr B thinks the tradesman caused the damage by using the wrong 
pressure, hed need to seek redress from them or through their professional insurance. 
As a final point, I note that LBG apologised to Mr B for some service shortfalls, including 
incorrect advice and sending a surveyor. It offered him £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. I understand Mr B declined the offer. I think the offer was fair in the 
circumstances. LBG told Mr B its offer is still available to him, so if he wishes to accept now, 
hed need to confirm that directly to LBG.
Im sorry to hear that Mr B suffered this damage when simply trying to maintain his home. 
And I can understand why he wants someone to pay for the repairs. But the evidence 
indicates that LBG fairly declined the claim under the policy exclusion of poor workmanship.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman