DRN-3931501
The complaint
Mr J complains that Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited trading as My Community Bank was 
irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr J was provided with a £1,800 loan from My Community Bank in November 2021. The 
loan was repayable in 23 monthly repayments of around £99 followed by a final repayment 
of around £171. The total repayable was around £2,449. Mr J settled the loan early, in 
February 2022.
Mr J says that at the time of the loan he had other debts including loans, credit cards and 
overdrafts and that businesses that had previously provided him with finance had refused to 
provide anymore. He says that his living expenses exceeded his income and that the loan 
put him further into financial difficulty. Mr J says My Community Bank should have realised 
the loan was unaffordable and not lent to him.
My Community Bank said Mr J applied for a loan in November 2021 for £1,800. It said his 
income was verified with a credit reference agency as £44,500 and he passed all My 
Community Banks automated checks so he was not required to provide any financial 
documents such as payslips or bank statements. It said based on Mr Js income and the size 
of the loan, the checks were proportionate.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought that further investigation into Mr Js 
existing debt should have happened but didnt think that had this happened, the results 
would have shown the loan repayments were unaffordable, or that by lending to Mr J My 
Community Bank might be increasing his debts beyond his ability to sustainably manage his 
finances. 
Mr J didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that My Community Bank didnt 
request copies of his bank statements and so wasnt aware of his outgoings or financial 
situation at the time. He said he had other loans, overdrafts and credit cards outstanding at 
the time and this wasnt properly assessed. He said he hadnt missed payments because he 
had taken on more debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My Community Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think My Community Banks initial checks were reasonable. I 
say this because it completed a credit check and verified his income through a credit 
reference agency. The loan repayments were for around £99, and Mr Js annual income was 
verified to be £44,500.
However, just because I think the initial checks were reasonable, it doesnt automatically 
mean My Community Bank made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the 
evidence and information showed. 
Mr Js annual income was verified with a credit reference agency as being £44,500. I think 
this verification was reasonable but as I havent seen the details of the verification, I have 
also looked at Mr Js banks statements. These show a monthly income of around £2,779 
which is in line with the annual salary amount included in the assessment.
Mr J has said that he shouldnt have been provided with the loan due to his other existing 
debts. I have looked at the information received through the credit report, and I do not find 
that this raises any major concerns in regard to how Mr J was manging his credit 
commitments. There were no County Court Judgements, bankruptcies or individual voluntary 
arrangements noted nor any issues regarding defaulted accounts. However, the information 
My Community Bank gathered showed Mr J was making monthly payments for his credit 
commitments of around £580. Given this I think it would have been reasonable to ask further 
questions in order to get a clear understanding of Mr Js existing debts. 
Having looked through the credit reports provided by Mr J I can see that at the time of the 
My Community Bank loan he had another loan outstanding for around £4,200 which 
accounted for most of his credit commitment payments and also two credit cards. There 
were no issues recorded with his repayments and so, on balance, I think had further 
questions been asked about Mr Js existing debts at the time the answers wouldnt have 
raised concerns that meant the loan shouldnt have been provided.
I understand Mr Js comments about his bank statements not being requested but in this 
case, given the size of the loan repayments compared to his income and that his credit 
check didnt raise any concerns about his repayment history, I do not think that My 
Community Bank was required to ask for copies of his bank statements. Based on the 
information My community Bank received and taking into account the information that would 
have been received had the additional questions noted above been asked, I do not find that 
the loan would have appeared unaffordable. Because of this I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman