DRN-2832205
The complaint
 Mr C complains about the damage charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) applied when he returned the car he acquired through a contract hire agreement. 
What happened
In January 2018 Mr C acquired a new car financed by a contract hire agreement through 
MBFS. The agreement was for 36 months.
In January 2021, one week before he was due to hand the car back, Mr C arranged an 
inspection. The inspector noted a dent on the right hand rear door, with a severity of 
between 50mm and 100mm requiring a cold metal repair. The estimated cost was £90 which 
Mr C accepted. It had been snowing prior to the inspection so there was snow on the top of 
the car. MBFS confirmed a second inspection would be necessary. 
The car was collected, and sometime later Mr C received an invoice from MBFS. It listed 
seven items of damage at a total repair cost of £1,045. Mr C complained to MBFS. He said 
six of the items hadnt been identified on the two inspections and must have occurred after 
the car was taken away. 
In its final response MBFS did not uphold Mr Cs complaint and said all the charges had 
been raised in accordance with its vehicle return standards (VRS). Mr C wasnt satisfied and 
brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator concluded that some of the damage 
charges were fair and reasonable but that scuffs on the right hand front wheel and the 
scratch to the bumper fell within MBFS VRS and had been incorrectly charged for. 
Mr C said he was disappointed the scratches on the roof had not been argued on his behalf. 
MBFS disagreed with the view and provided additional comments about photos it had 
provided as evidence of the bumper and wheel. So the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I will be asking MBFS to only charge for some of the damage.
MBFS has provided two inspection reports to support the charges. The first is dated 15 
January 2021 and was the inspection carried out at Mr Cs request one week prior to 
collection. The second inspection was carried out on 26 January after Mr C had returned the 
car.  
Our investigator concluded that the following charges had been raised correctly:
Door, left hand front, dented - £35
Wheel, left hand front rim, damaged - £110
Wheel, right hand front rim, damaged - £110
Door, right hand rear, dented - £260; the estimated damages having risen due to a 
more involved repair needed than originally thought. 
Mr C hasnt disputed the investigators conclusions regarding these charges so I will 
concentrate my comments on those that he and MBFS have challenged. 
Roof, scratched - £210
Our investigator determined this charge had been raised correctly. The MBFS VRS says that 
minor body dents are acceptable provided they are less than 13mm in diameter. It says light 
surface scratches are acceptable when they can be removed by polishing or touch up. Any 
chipping of paintwork is acceptable if it can be attributed to normal usage e.g. chips caused 
by stones flying off roads. Mr C has said he is disappointed the scratches to the roof have 
not been argued on his behalf. He said they appear to be the result of someone trying to 
scrape off snow/ice to then inspect the roof. Mr C claimed he wouldnt return a vehicle with 
anything like these scratches due to the costs and argument that would ensue.
When the first inspection took place, it was a winter morning and there was a layer of snow 
on the roof, bonnet and boot of the car. This is noted on the inspection and likely the reason 
for the second inspection. So, it wasnt possible for the inspector to view the roof. And 
therefore, its not possible for me to say with any degree of certainty whether there were 
scratches on it at that time. From the photos and video provided I can see there wasnt much 
snow on the ground  it appears to have melted - at least one other car parked in the vicinity 
had no snow on it, with only a little on others, and the snow was melting on Mr Cs car. So, I 
do consider it reasonable and in his own interests for Mr C to have cleared the car of snow 
prior to an inspection he requested himself. Im not disputing Mr C when he says he wouldnt 
return a vehicle in such a condition. But the scratches are present for the second inspection, 
they are in excess of 13mm and they do penetrate the top coat of paint. And I dont think 
they can reasonably be attributed to normal usage. So, while I realise this will disappoint Mr 
C, I consider this charge to have been raised correctly. 
Bumper, front, scratched - £210
Our investigator determined this charge had not been raised correctly. The MBFS VRS says 
that scuff marks on bumpers up to 50mm, which do not adversely affect the overall 
appearance of the car are acceptable. MBFS said the scuff on the underside of the front 
bumper is the white mark on the photo. It said this charge had been raised correctly. Ive 
examined the photo. I also looked at both videos provided for each inspection. The quality of 
the videos is very poor with the tours around the car being very quick with no focus on detail. 
The photo is also poor. It is blurry and the white mark highlighted by MBFS is in shadow. 
MBFS said while the front bumper image is slightly distorted by the zoom function, the 
circled area is clearly a significant scuff to the plastic bumper and its abundantly clear this 
falls considerably outside of the VRS. While I can see a white mark and I accept it is 
possible this is a scuff mark Im not sufficiently persuaded it is. So, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to allow MBFS to charge for it. 
Wheel, right hand rear spoke, damaged - £110
Our investigator determined this charge had not been raised correctly. The MBFS VRS says 
minor scuffing or damage to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face under 25mm is 
acceptable. As above I have to rely on the photo and video evidence provided by MBFS. I 
find both the photos and video of the right hand rear wheel to be inconclusive. MBFS has 
highlighted on the photos where it believes the damage is. It accepts there is glare and 
lighting on the first image but says its clear from the second image that damage is present 
and falls outside of the VRS. It said a fair estimate of the damage is 80-90mm. I dont agree 
that the damage is 80-90mm. I accept there is a scuff mark(s) but Im not sufficiently 
persuaded it is over 25mm. I say this because the marks are not one continuous mark but a few much smaller marks. And Im not sufficiently persuaded its fair and reasonable for me to 
allow MBFS to charge for it. 
  
Putting things right
The total amount of charges is £1,045. In order to put things right MBFS should remove the 
charges for the bumper (£210) and the right hand rear wheel (£110). So, the total amount of 
charges is reduced to £725. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited should remove the charges as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman