DRN-3244736
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain about the poor service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited 
when they made a claim under their home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Theres no dispute things didnt go as they should have. British Gas has 
acknowledged it could have done more to provide Mrs W and Mr W a better service. 
But while I accept it made some attempts to keep Mrs W and Mr W updated on the 
progress of the claim, further attempts could have been made to ensure they were 
appropriately kept updated. 
British Gas have said that it called Mrs W and Mr W but at times the calls were 
blocked. Mrs W and Mr W say they had this function on their phone system to 
prevent cold callers, and I dont think this was unreasonable. At other times British 
Gas did get through to them or at least were able to get through to an answering 
machine  but when asked by the investigator if messages had been left on the 
answering machine British Gas was unable to confirm if it had. 
So Im not persuaded when encountered with the blocked calls British Gas did 
everything it needed to make sure Mrs W and Mr W were appropriately updated. 
Especially seeing as it was able to get through to them at other times and I dont 
think Mrs W and Mr W were doing anything different. 
I dont think British Gas has fully considered Mrs W and Mr Ws individual 
circumstances. British Gas have said that they had heating in other parts of the home 
so suggested the impact of the delays and cancelled appointments was limited. But 
Mrs W and Mr W have explained how not having the heating in the room impacted 
their day to day life. And while I accept Mrs W and Mr W were always likely to suffer 
a degree of stress and inconvenience with a claim of this nature, they ended up 
having to wait over three months for the issue to be resolved.
British Gas say it needed to source the radiator, and this took longer due to supply 
issues. But this should have been completed by the end of April 2021, when a further 
appointment was arranged. However it wasnt completed until a few weeks later and I 
havent seen any evidence why it took this further time for the repair to be completed. 
I can see the investigator asked for this information, but British Gas hasnt replied to 
her requests. 
British Gas initially offered Mrs W and Mr W £85 and then increased the offer to £150 
for the inconvenience caused- but Mrs W and Mr W didnt accept this amount.     
Putting things right
In light of the above, I think it was right that British Gas apologised for the service it provided 
and offered an amount to recognise the inconvenience it caused. But taking everything into 
account, I think it needs to do more to put things right. I think £250 would be a fair and 
reasonable way of resolving this complaint. I know British Gas feels that is excessive as   
Mrs W and Mr W were always going to have to deal with a certain amount of inconvenience. 
But the poor service it provided made the situation much worse than it needed to be and I 
think £250 is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. 
In order to resolve Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint, British Gas Insurance Limited should pay 
Mrs W and Mr W £250 for the distress and inconvenience its poor service caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman