DRN-3771063
Complaint
Mr B has complained about loans Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr B with an initial loan for £1,500.00 in August 2019. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £98. However, this loan was settled in 
full with some of the proceeds from loan 2 which was taken in January 2020. Loan 2 was for 
£2,253.03 and was due to be repaid in 30 monthly instalments of around £130. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr B and Likely Loans had told us. He thought that 
Likely Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. So he didnt recommend 
that Mr Bs complaint be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr B could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Bs applications after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr B could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr B has said the 
loans were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr B and Likely Loans have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that Likely Loans has provided a record of the results of its credit searches. Likely 
Loans searches appear to show that Mr B had some existing credit commitments at the time 
he applied for these loans. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Bs outstanding 
debt total at the time of the applications was reasonable in comparison to his income. 
Furthermore, while Mr B had had previous repayment difficulties these were historic. He 
didnt have any recent defaults and the county court judgement recorded against him was 
from more than two years before. Mr B has referred to his history of payday loans, but only 
one loan for a small amount showed up in the credit search prior to loan 1 and there were no 
further payday loans taken in the lead up to loan 2. Its also worth noting that the monthly 
repayments required for these loans were relatively low. 
Ive also kept in mind that loan 1 was repaid with some of the proceeds from loan 2. But loan 
2 wasnt for that much more and the monthly payment was still relatively low in comparison 
to Mr Bs income too. So it wasnt immediately obvious that Mr B might have been taking 
loan 2 because of the effect loan 1 left on his finances. And there isnt anything else obvious 
in either of these applications which lead me to think that further checks would have been 
reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Mr Bs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. Equally I accept that if 
Likely Loans had gone into the depth of checks Mr B appears to be saying it should have  
such as obtaining bank statements in the same way a mortgage provider would  it may 
have reached a different answer. 
But the key here is that Likely Loans wasnt providing Mr B with a mortgage. It was providing 
loans for relatively small sums. And its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint 
in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Mr B is 
suggesting  and even then we havent been provided with anything which demonstrates the 
loans were obviously unaffordable at the time either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr B - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Bs indebtedness, at least to it, didnt appear to be increasing 
unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman