DRN-3087248
The complaint
The estate of Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt calculated the compensation 
correctly for a mis-sold credit card Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy. The estate 
of Mr D wants additional compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by 
delays to the payment of the compensation and the legal fees incurred in employing the 
services of a solicitor to act on its behalf.  
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by the 
adjudicator, so I havent repeated all of this information here.
Briefly:
In April 2020 HSBC upheld the estate of Mr Ds credit card PPI mis-sale complaint and 
offered compensation. 
After an exchange of correspondence between the estate of Mr D, HSBC, and the estate of 
Mr Ds legal representative to provide the necessary information and documentation to allow 
HSBC to make payment of the compensation, HSBC paid half of the compensation to the 
estate of Mr D in December 2020. It then made a further payment in June 2021 after a delay 
of around four months from receipt of the final piece of signed documentation. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and in summary they concluded that the 
PPI compensation had been calculated correctly and represents fair compensation. But they 
acknowledged there was a delay in making the second half of the compensation and they 
recommended HSBC recalculate its offer to bring the 8% interest element of this part of the 
compensation up to date to reflect the date of payment, which HSBC hadnt done. HSBC 
also said it was willing to offer £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
The estate of Mr D disagrees that HSBC has calculated the offer fairly; in particular it doesnt 
believe the 8% interest element of the compensation has been calculated correctly and has 
provided its own calculations to support this. The estate of Mr D has also asked for a full 
breakdown of whats been paid and what should be paid to bring the interest element up to 
date.
Because the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it comes to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that HSBC has calculated the PPI compensation correctly and 
in-line with our guidance. But to represent overall fair compensation, Ive decided that HSBC 
should bring its compensation payment up to date to reflect the delay in payment and 
resulting inconvenience caused to the estate of Mr D and make payment as it has agreed to 
do. My reasons are set out below.
But before I give my reasons, I think its necessary for me to explain an important point. I 
need to make a clear distinction here between the estate of Mr D and the representatives of 
the estate dealing with the complaint. This is important because I can see the
the representatives have talked about the distress and inconvenience HSBC has caused.
But this is a complaint about the estate of Mr D. An estate cannot suffer pain or distress -
albeit I think it can experience inconvenience or delay, which I will talk about below. 
And I cannot make a distress and inconvenience or cost award to third parties. And this
includes executors or representatives of an estate. I do not have the power to direct a
business to make payments to third parties. So I cannot make any award for their distress, 
pain, or inconvenience.
I can see that HSBC has offered to make a payment of £150 to one of the representatives of 
the estate in recognition of the delay and inconvenience caused. But for the reasons Ive 
described above, I wont express an opinion about this here. HSBC should nevertheless 
make payment as it has offered to do.
I can see the estate of Mr D has also asked for a cost award to reflect the legal fees it has 
incurred in bringing this complaint. But I wont be making such an award. In addition to what 
Ive said above about not making cost awards to third parties, it was ultimately the estate of 
Mr Ds decision to employ the services of a representative  it wasnt something it had to do 
to pursue this complaint.
Turning now to HSBCs offer of compensation for the upheld credit card PPI mis-selling 
complaint  Im satisfied HSBCs offer has been caried out in line with our guidance and the 
calculation methodology is fair.
Firstly - the aim of redressing mis-sold PPI is to put the estate of Mr D back in the position it 
would have been in had PPI not being taken out. To do this HSBC should effectively re-work 
the credit card account to strip out the PPI to show how the account would otherwise have 
run and looked like without PPI. 
This involves refunding the PPI premiums  in this case between 1998 and 2003  plus any 
interest that was charged to the account on those premiums. I should add that because 
HSBS no longer has all of the transaction data covering the relevant period, it has made 
assumptions about the accounts operation based on the records it does have. And I think 
this is fair in the circumstances.
HSBC should also add 8% simple interest to any period where the credit card account would 
have been in credit had PPI not been charged (the assumption made is that the same 
monthly payment would likely have still been made to the account had PPI not been taken 
out.) And finally basic rate income tax should be deducted from any interest amount 
awarded.
I can see that HSBC did this and it communicated its offer in a letter to the estate of Mr D on 
3 April 2020. 
Here it provided the necessary breakdown of the compensation (divided by two to reflect that 
it agreed to pay two equal shares of the compensation to the representatives of the estate of 
Mr D) quoting the PPI premiums paid (£303.84), the interest charged to the account in respect of the premiums (£551.10), simple interest on any credit balance identified (£236.96) 
and the deduction of basic rate income tax on the interest amount (£47.39).
Looking at this along with the more detailed calculation methodology HSBC has provided me 
with, Im satisfied HSBC has calculated the PPI compensation fairly and is in line with our 
guidance.
HSBC didnt make payment of the first share of the PPI compensation until December 2020. 
But this was in part due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the impact it had on businesses 
operations. I can also see that HSBC didnt receive the necessary paperwork to facilitate 
payment until November 2020. So I dont think the delay was unreasonable here or 
something HSBC should compensate the estate of Mr D for.
But despite HSBC receiving the necessary paperwork in February 2021 to facilitate payment 
of the second share of the compensation payment, it didnt do this until June 2021. And it 
didnt bring the compensatory 8% interest element up to date to reflect the delay. I think the 
estate of Mr D was inconvenienced by this because it was out of the money - so it should be 
compensated for this. And I think bringing the compensatory interest element up to date to 
reflect the June 2021 payment date for this share of the compensation fairly addresses this 
(and which HSBC has already agreed to do.)
HSBCs letter of 18 August 2021 set out the revised calculation  the 8% interest element 
increased from £236.96 to £254.10 with the tax deducted amount changing from £47.39 to 
£50.82  giving a difference of £13.71 owed.
Im satisfied HSBC has calculated this in line with what I would expect  so I consider it is 
fair compensation.
I can see the estate of Mr D has provided its own calculations of the 8% interest element of 
the compensation, which it says shows HSBC figures are incorrect. But I dont agree. The 
estate of Mr Ds calculations are somewhat rudimentary. I say this because it has assumed 
the 8% interest element is a straightforward calculation based on adding both the premiums 
paid and the interest charged on those premiums multiplied by the relevant period since the 
credit card opened until payment is made.
 
But the calculation is more complex than this. As HSBC explained in providing the 
breakdown of its offer and as I have set out above, the 8% interest element is only payable 
where the credit card account reworking shows that a credit balance would have resulted. 
The interest awarded here is intended to compensate for loss of opportunity on these 
amounts.
So as I have concluded above, Im satisfied HSBCs calculation of PPI compensation in this 
case is fair.
The estate of Mr D has repeated its request for HSBC to provide a further breakdown of the 
compensation and a more detailed calculation. But Im satisfied that HSBC has already 
provided sufficient breakdown of what it has paid as I have detailed above. I think this along 
with the information I have set out in my decision is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
 I wont be asking HSBC to do anything more here.
  
Putting things right
HSBC should:pay the estate of Mr D the updated PPI compensatory interest element of the redress 
owed (an amount of £13.71) in recognition of the inconvenience caused by the delay in 
payment.
pay the estate of Mr D £1501 as it has offered to do to reflect the delay and 
inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons above Ive decided that HSBC Bank UK Plc has calculated the estate of Mr 
Ds credit card PPI compensation fairly. But to reflect the inconvenience caused by the delay 
in payment of the second share of the compensation, HSBC Bank UK Plc should pay the 
estate of Mr D  if it hasnt already done so - the updated compensatory interest element as 
set out above. And I think this represents fair compensation overall.
HSBC Bank UK Plc should also pay the estate of Mr D £150 as set out above  if it hasnt 
already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
1 This offer was made in connection with two complaints brought by the estate of Mr D  only one 
payment of £150 should be paid.