DRN-1084119
 
The complaint 
Miss G says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) irresponsibly lent to her.                         
Background
This complaint is about six loans MYJAR provided to Miss G between July 2017 and 
September 2018. Miss Gs borrowing history is as follows:
 
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 21/07/2017 22/07/2017 3 £150.00 £72.32
2 28/07/2017 10/11/2017 6 £400.00 £111.73
3 10/11/2017 08/12/2017 12 £425.00 £61.76
4 08/12/2017 25/05/2018 12 £425.00 £61.76
5 03/09/2018 18/09/2018 3 £125.00 £58.70
6 24/09/2018 outstanding 24 £900.00 £67.52
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Gs complaint and thought the loans from loan 4 
onwards shouldnt have been given because Miss G was showing signs of being in a debt 
cycle. MYJAR disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It 
said the adjudicator hadnt given enough information as to why they were upholding the 
complaint. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me to issue a 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss G could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think MYJAR needed to do more when it approved loans 1 and 3. 
 Miss G didnt disagree with the adjudicators findings about these loans. As there is no 
longer a dispute about these loans, I wont be making any findings on them. But Ive kept 
these in mind when thinking about the context of the overall lending relationship. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan 4 would most likely have shown 
that Miss G was in a cycle of debt and was further borrowing to cover the hole that repaying 
her previous loan was leaving in her finances. The behaviour in Miss Gs borrowing should 
have also prompted MYJAR to verify the information she was telling it  such as asking for 
copies of her bank statements and/or payslips. 
For example, this was Miss Gs fourth loan in nearly five months and Miss G had been in 
debt with MYJAR the entire time, with all but one of the loans being taken out on the same 
day she repaid the previous one. Miss Gs declared income had also dropped considerably 
between loans, even though she was working for the same employer. Yet she was asking to 
borrow larger amounts. She had also extending the amount of time she was indebted to MYJAR. In these circumstances there was a risk that by allowing Miss G to take on further 
loans she wouldnt be able to make the repayments without having to borrow further.  
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history with Miss G, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Miss Gs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say 
this because at this point MYJAR ought to have realised Miss G wasnt managing to repay 
her loans sustainably. Miss G had taken out six loans in 14 months and she wasnt really 
making any real inroads to the amount she owed MYJAR. Loan 1 was for £150 and loan 6 
was for £900, so it should have been clear to MYJAR that it was unlikely Miss G was 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
Over the time she was indebted to it, Miss G had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to MYJAR over an extended period.
I think that Miss G lost out because MYJAR continued to provide borrowing for loan 6 
because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Gs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Miss G borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Miss Gs ability to access mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 6 and MYJAR should put things right.
Putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
If MYJAR has sold the outstanding debt MYJAR should buy it back if MYJAR is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If MYJAR cant buy the debt back, then MYJAR should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) MYJAR should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss G towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
MYJAR has already refunded.
B) MYJAR should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by      
 Miss G which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss G originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) MYJAR should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss G as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss G having made 
overpayments then MYJAR should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss G. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss G. MYJAR 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal MYJAR has already written-off.
E) MYJAR should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Gs credit file in 
relation to loans 4 and 5. The overall pattern of Miss Gs borrowing for loan 6 means any 
information recorded about this loan is adverse, so MYJAR should remove it entirely from 
Miss Gs credit file. MYJAR does not have to remove the outstanding loan from Miss Gs 
credit file until this has been repaid, but MYJAR should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about loan 6.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Gs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman