DRN-1382377
The complaint
Mr W complains that Debt Managers (Services) Limited are chasing him for a debt that isnt 
his. He also complains that the resulting marker on his credit file has prevented him from 
getting mortgages. 
What happened
Mr W said he received a letter from a debt management company in 2018, chasing him for 
an outstanding debt it said he had with a finance provider. Mr W ignored the first letter as he 
said hed never had any dealings with either the debt management company or the finance 
provider. In October 2018 Mr W said he received another letter threatening action if the debt 
was not paid. 
In May 2019 Mr W contacted Debt Managers to explain that a further letter hed received 
wasnt for him and the debt was not his. Debt Managers asked for proof of his home address 
between 2016 and 2017 which Mr W provided. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied with how Debt Managers had handled the situation and the impact on 
his credit file so he filed a complaint. In its final response in September Debt Managers 
accepted the debt in question wasnt related to Mr W and committed to updating his credit 
file. Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He provided 
evidence of declined mortgage offers. 
Our investigator thought that Debt Managers should have done more for Mr W who, he said, 
had been chased for a debt which wasnt related to him and had been caused unnecessary 
stress. He concluded that £200 compensation was fair and reasonable. But the investigator 
said that without any formal evidence from the mortgage provider explaining the specific 
reason for declining the application he wouldnt expect Debt Managers to cover any 
additional costs. 
Mr W asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He said he was thousands of pounds 
out of pocket. Mr W explained that he has three properties which he had been unable to re-
mortgage because of his credit file. This has meant hes on variable interest and is paying 
more per month for each property.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will disappoint Mr W but having done so I believe £200 compensation is fair and 
reasonable and I wont be instructing Debt Managers to do more than that.  
Debt Managers has accepted that the debt involved does not belong to Mr W and has 
written twice to the credit reference agencies to remove the default. Mr W believes this has 
cost him a substantial amount of money in the form of higher mortgage interest rates for his 
properties. He said his properties were costing him approximately £180 more per month for 
the following 12 months. He is also upset that a company can do this clerical error to an 
innocent person and get away with it. He said this has affected his business and life. 
I do appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling in this matter and his frustration is completely 
understandable. For me to direct Debt Managers to pay Mr W for his mortgage interest rate 
losses I must be satisfied that they are as a direct result of Debt Managers actions. 
Mr W provided copies of his mortgage applications. I can see that in June 2019 he was 
declined a mortgage based on a failed credit score. A hand-written note on the page says 
the applicant, Mr W, now has a default. 
Mr W has also submitted a copy of his credit report along with screen shots of his credit 
report summary, last updated in December 2019. I can see the date of default from Debt 
Managers is 20 September 2018. 
I also note there is a second default recorded from a different debt management company. 
The date of this default is 23 August 2018. Mr W has reported that he received a letter from 
a debt management company in October 2018. But Debt Managers has said it conducted its 
trace on 1 May 2019 and first contacted Mr W after that. So it does seem possible the other 
debt management company wrote to Mr W prior to May. 
Its evident that at the time Mr W applied for his mortgages there were two defaults 
registered but only one from Debt Managers. And given there were two defaults and there is 
no evidence from the mortgage provider explaining the detailed reason for declining the 
application, beyond credit score failed, its not possible for me to determine what impact, if 
any, the default from Debt Managers, specifically, had on his mortgage applications. And so, 
it wouldnt be fair of me to hold Debt Managers accountable for Mr Ws interest rate losses. 
Mr W also complained that Debt managers hadnt updated his credit file by January 2020. 
Debt managers confirmed that it wrote to the credit reference agencies in September 2019 
and February 2020. It confirmed it had confirmation these were correctly issued on both 
occasions. If Mr W is still having problems with this then it would be prudent to talk to the 
credit reference agencies themselves.
Putting things right
I believe £200 compensation is fair and reasonable for the distress caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Debt Managers (Services) Ltd must pay Mr 
W £200 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman