DRN-3855859
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain that Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in 
Liechtenstein AG (Helvetia) unfairly declined their claim. 
All references in my decision to Helvetia include their agents. For ease of reading, Ill refer 
only to Mr D throughout.
What happened
Mr D has a five year extended warranty for his four seater corner recliner sofa, which he 
purchased in November 2020. In February 2022, Mr D said the leather on the corner seat 
cushion was faded and peeling. Helvetia accepted this claim and made arrangements to 
rectify the problem under the terms of the warranty. 
In March 2022, Mr D made a second claim for damage to the same seat. He said the 
cushion had gone flat, dipped, and felt different to the others. Helvetia then arranged for an 
engineer to inspect the damage. The engineer couldnt access the cushion interior, but he 
was able to inspect the sofa and take photographs of the cushion in its cover. He also 
checked the springs and framework of the sofa. In his report, the engineer concluded the 
damage had occurred due to  a combination of a loss of resilience within the foam through 
typical settlement and compression of the foam. He also described the seat as the most 
favoured as it was directly opposite the sofa. As a result, Helvetia said the damage wasnt 
covered under the terms of the warranty and declined the claim.
Mr D didnt think this was fair, he said the sofa was only 16 months old and was regularly  
used by two people. So, if the damage was caused by typical settlement and compression, 
he didnt understand why none of the other seats were impacted to the same degree. He 
also highlighted the fact the warranty provides cover for structural defects in cushion 
interiors. 
An investigator then considered the complaint and upheld it. He said given the age of the 
sofa and Mr Ds comments about its use, the damage should reasonably be considered a 
structural defect. So, he felt Helvetia should settle the claim. 
Helvetia then requested a final decision. They said the manufacturer encourages consumers 
to rotate the use of the seats, and if the cushion interior was faulty, they'd reasonably expect 
all of the cushions to look the same. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say insurers have a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. So, the starting point 
here is the contract between Mr D and Helvetia  the warranty terms and conditions. The 
terms define structural defects as Faults found outside the manufacturers guarantee period 
that have occurred due to faulty or defective components. They also say the policy provides 
cover for structural defects in Cushion Interiors and webbing. There is an exclusion for 
wear and tear and no cover is provided for structural defects in products with a defective 
design or specification. 
I've carefully reviewed the engineers report and the included photographs. These show 
significant damage to the corner seat as the cushion has dipped and looks unsightly. As 
detailed above, the engineer concluded the damage had been caused due to a loss of 
resilience in the foam and compression of the foam.
Mr D has explained that like most couples, he and his wife regularly use the sofa together. 
So, I dont find the engineers assumption that the middle seat is the most favoured 
particularly convincing. I also havent been presented with any evidence which suggests the 
seat has been used for anything other than normal use. The remaining parts of the sofa also 
appear to be in an excellent condition. So, if the damage had been caused by normal wear 
and tear, Id reasonably have expected the other seats to have deteriorated in a similar way.
In any event, even if Mr D and his wife had solely used the corner seat (which I find unlikely), 
Im satisfied most consumers would expect a sofa cushion to last more than 16 months, 
before it would show the amount of deterioration this one has. So, I think it's reasonable to 
conclude, the excessive loss of resilience is likely to be due to a structural defect in the 
cushion interior, which goes beyond normal wear and tear. 
Overall, while I appreciate, Helvetia relied on an engineers report, Im not satisfied their 
decision to reject Mr Ds claim was reasonable. The warranty provides cover for structural 
defects in cushion interiors and based on all the evidence, and surrounding circumstances, I 
think this is the likely cause of the damage here. Im also satisfied that none of the warranty 
exclusions reasonably apply.
Final decision 
I uphold this complaint and direct Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in 
Liechtenstein AG to settle the claim in line with the warranty terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman