DRN-2087164
The complaint
Mrs Y has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly 
decided her claims were all for one condition under her pet policy, which meant it didnt pay 
the full amount of her claims. 
What happened
Mrs Ys dog became ill around September 2019 which her vet initially thought was a soft 
tissue injury to his lumbar spine. It didnt resolve so Mrs Y brought him back to the vet on 4 
November 2019 and referred her to a specialist referral vet on 7 November 2019, who 
eventually diagnosed a polyarthritis condition.
Mrs Y held a superior policy with Red Sands which had an annual limit of £2,000 per 
condition. Her policy excess per condition was £99. Given the age of Mrs Ys dog she also 
had to pay 20% of the vet costs as a co-pay. 
Mrs Y and her vets claimed £167.60 on 23 October 2019 of which Red Sands paid £54.88 
deducting the excess plus the 20% co-pay. The next claim was for £766.62 on 5 November 
2019, of which Red Sands paid £613.30 deducting the 20% co-pay. The next claim was for 
£33.50 on 19 November 2019 of which Red Sands paid £26.80 deducting the 20% co-pay. 
And the last claim was for £3,047.35 on 20 November 2019, of which Red Sands said was 
£2,015.08 over the condition limit of £2,000 so it paid £825.82 deducting the 20% co-pay.
Mrs Y believed her dog was suffering two conditions concurrently being the lumbar issue 
and then the polyarthritis condition, so she didnt think it was fair that Red Sands viewed 
them as one condition. So, she complained to Red Sands, but it wouldnt change its stance.
Therefore, she brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think Red Sands had 
done anything wrong. Mrs Y didnt agree so her complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mrs Ys policy has a policy limit per condition per year of £2,000, that 
her excess is £99 and that given the age of her dog she must pay a 20% co-payment of the 
vet costs.
What is in dispute is whether her dog suffered one or two conditions between September 
and November 2019. 
 
From the evidence of Mrs Y specialist vet, her usual treating vet plus the detail on the claim 
forms, there is little evidence of two concurrent conditions as Mrs Y asserts. Obviously if Mrs 
Y feels her vets have told her something different to this, that is a matter between Mrs Y and 
her vets and isnt an issue I or this service can help her with.
The first claim form details that its for treatment costs for the investigation of back pain. Its 
date 23 October 2019. The second claim form is a continuation claim form for the 
investigation of this back pain. Its dated 5 November 2019. 
The third claim form is dated 19 November 2019 and again this is identified as a continuation 
claim but it says back pain  suspected polyarthritis. It doesnt however say back pain and 
suspected polyarthritis. The report with this claim form from the specialist referral vet 
explains that the lumbar spine is unremarkable on the scan. So that indicates the issues Mrs 
Ys ordinary vet suspected as to the cause of the back pain werent showing up as a problem 
on this scan. The report further details there are intra-articular effusion in both stifles, so he 
thinks Mrs Ys dog is suffering polyarthritis.
The forth claim form is dated 20 November 2019 which is also a continuation claim form 
and merely details polyarthritis. 
Mrs Ys specialist referral vet wrote to Red Sands on 3 December 2019. He said the initial 
diagnosis was possible IDDV (intervertebral disc disease) but that now he considers on the 
differential diagnosis of immuno-mediate polyarthritis and the tests confirm this. 
Its very clear to me that whilst Mrs Y dog had some multiple small disc protrusions as 
identified initially by Mrs Ys ordinary vet, findings on the scan by the specialist vet dont 
confirm these are causing her dogs issues. He believes its polyarthritis. 
In Mrs Ys policy it clearly defines condition as:
 any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident or any 
manifestation of an illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting from 
the same disease process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your 
pets body affected. 
Therefore, given all this, on balance, I dont consider Red Sands did anything wrong in 
deciding Mrs Y vet costs over these four claims was for one condition eventually diagnosed 
as polyarthritis. Consequently, I consider it did nothing wrong in imposing the policys 
condition annual condition limit to her claims. And Im pleased to note Red Sands only 
deducted one excess for this condition on the payment of the first claim form.
Sadly, Red Sands said the call recording of Mrs Ys ordinary vet with Red Sands on 12 
December 2019 wasnt retained. Its file notes say the matter was discussed at some length. 
However, given the strength of the evidence Ive detailed above Im of the view that its clear 
that Mrs Ys dog issues were from one condition, polyarthritis.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman