DRN-4345818
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd is asking him to repay debts when 
he has no money to do so. 
What happened
Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd (Lantern) acquired debts for four loans that were 
taken out by Mr E.
Mr E complained to Lantern in 2022 saying they should write the debts off as he was unable 
to pay anything towards them. Lantern replied on 13 May 2022 saying that, to consider this, 
theyd need Mr E to complete and return an up-to-date budget planner setting out his income 
and expenditure. 
Mr E made a further complaint to Lantern as he wasnt happy they were continuing to ask 
him to make payments towards the debts when he had no money to do so. Lantern replied 
on 26 January 2023 saying they hadnt received the budget planner and details of Mr Es 
income and expenditure to review his financial situation, so felt they hadnt made any errors 
in asking him to contact them.
Mr E referred his complaint to us. Our investigator said we couldnt investigate the events 
that occurred prior to Lanterns final response of 13 May 2022 as Mr E hadnt referred this to 
us within the required six months given in that response and that no exceptional 
circumstances had prevented him from doing so. Our investigator then went on to consider 
what had happened that led to Lantern sending their second final response on 26 January 
2023, and said he was satisfied they had acted reasonably. He said Lantern had showed 
forbearance by placing Mr Es accounts on hold on multiple occasions to allow him breathing 
space and that it wasnt unreasonable for them to ask him to provide details so they could 
understand his financial situation. 
Mr E didnt agree. He said he has no money to pay Lantern and that situation wont change. 
So, his complaint has been passed to me for a decision, 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr Es circumstances are such that he feels he cant pay Lantern any 
money. I dont though think its been unreasonable for Lantern to have asked him to fill out 
their budget planner and give details of his income and expenditure to help them understand 
his situation. Ive also seen that Lantern has put Mr Es accounts on hold on several 
occasions to help give him time to do this rather than continuing to contact him. Ive also 
seen that Lantern gave Mr E details of debt advice and gambling charities to see if that might 
provide him with some help. 
Overall, I find Lantern has acted with forbearance and due consideration towards Mr Es 
situation as they are required and tried to help and support him in respect of these debts. I 
would urge Mr E to send the budget planner to Lantern so they can assess what support 
they can give him now. Theyve previously offered to consider writing off Mr Es debts if he 
can show that his situation warrants this. That doesnt seem unreasonable to me. I dont find 
this means that Lantern should write the debts off, but they should consider what practical, 
reasonable options are appropriate once Mr E has sent them details of his financial situation. 
If Mr E isnt happy with their response once he has done this, then he can raise a further 
complaint with Lantern and refer the matter to us in due course if he wishes. 
I would just add here that Mr E has complained to Lantern twice about the same issue, 
which is that they shouldnt be contacting him for payment when he has no money. I see little 
benefit in assessing whether Mr E referred his complaint to us in time following Lanterns 
final response of 13 May 2022, when the issues he has asked us to consider are essentially 
the same. That will only needlessly delay matters. If I had deemed the first complaint to have 
been made in time or not, it would still leave Mr E in the same position now bearing in mind I 
find that Lantern hasnt acted unreasonably in asking him to contact them. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman