DRN-1476989
 
The complaint 
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr H took out a PPI policy in 1991 in connection with an unsecured loan. The 
policy provided cover for Mr H if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr H has said PPI wasnt discussed when he took out his loan, and he wouldnt have 
agreed to buy it if it had been offered. Ive noted everything Mr H has said. The 
difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr H and Halifax 
when the loan was arranged. Im also mindful that these events took place almost 
thirty years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over 
time. Halifax hasnt been able to provide much information from when the policy was 
sold. Thats not surprising given the amount of time thats passed, and its similar to 
some other cases Ive seen. But without anything else to support what Mr H has told 
me, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that Halifax didnt tell him about the 
PPI, or give him a choice about buying it. I accept its possible PPI wasnt discussed, 
but its equally likely that it was  although I can understand why Mr H may no longer 
remember this.
Mr H was eligible for the PPI given his circumstances and the policy terms.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr H. This meant it had to make sure the policy was 
suitable for him, as well as give him the information he needed to decide          
whether to take it out.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But from what hes told us, Mr H 
wouldnt have been affected by any of those.I cant be sure that Halifax made the information about the policys cost and benefit 
clear. But looking at Mr Hs circumstances at the time  and the cost and the level of 
benefit  I think the policy couldve provided a useful benefit to him. I say this 
because the policy wouldve paid out in addition to  and for longer than  the 
employer sick pay Mr H says he was entitled to. Having the policy in place wouldve 
meant Mr H could use his employer benefits and  savings to pay for other expenses.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, its unlikely Mr H would have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was 
competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information 
wouldve stopped him buying it. 
 
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments, including what hes said about discrepancies in the 
address and employer details Halifax held for him. But these points dont change my overall 
conclusions about the complaint.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman