DRN-3105877
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In 2011, Mr S applied for a credit card from Tesco and it was approved with a limit of £2,500. 
Subsequent increase in limits on the card were offered and approved by Tesco; and a 
personal loan was also agreed:
Date Limit
November 2011 (new card) £2,500
September 2013 £4,500
November 2013 (personal loan) £15,000 (personal loan)
June 2017 £6,500
Mr S ran into financial difficulty in 2019, and arrears built up. In May 2019, Tesco agreed to a 
plan of reduced payments, with zero interest and fees. The account was suspended and a 
default registered. 
Mr S complained that Tesco didnt do the necessary checks when increasing his limit in 
2013 and 2017. They didnt check his financial position, nor the other debts he had with 
other lenders. He said he had income of £1,200 per month, with outgoings of £1,050 plus 
food of £300 per month  so the debt couldnt be afforded. Hed taken a large loan from 
Tesco (£15,000) in November 2013  which shouldve been taken into account. He said he 
was tempted to use the card because Tesco put the limit on his statements. As a result of 
what happened, he said he now had default markers on his credit file. He said he wants a 
refund of interest and fees, and the markers on his credit file should be removed.
Tesco said that Mr S had passed all their credit checks. They said Mr S operated his 
account satisfactorily and they also checked his credit records at the credit reference 
agencies (CRA). Theyd written to Mr S ahead of the increases and he couldve opted out 
but didnt. They said Mr S could see his limit at the top of each statement, and he couldve 
asked for it to be reduced. Payments had been made up until May 2019  24 months after 
the last increase. But after that time, arrears started to build up.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said we couldnt look at the issue of the 
card in 2011 - as it was more than six years before Mr S complained to Tesco. He then saw 
that the increase in September 2013 was also more than six years before. But he was of the 
view that Mr S circumstances were such that he became aware that he had cause to 
complain in 2019  which was within three years of his complaint  so we could look at the 
September 2013 increase, and thereafter. This was in line with our rules. Tesco agreed with 
this. Our investigator looked at what had happened in 2013 and 2017. In both cases he 
considered Tesco completed enough checks. There werent any defaults or CCJs on Mr S 
credit records, nor any evidence of significant debts elsewhere. Repayments had been 
maintained at or above the minimum needed. The use of the credit limit was also low  at 
just over 30%. So, he thought Tesco had acted reasonably - and didnt uphold Mr S 
complaint.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. He said he had other debts at the 
time, including the Tesco loan  which he said was payable over 15 years. And these factors 
couldnt have been considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether Tesco 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made. In Mr Ss case, by June 2017, he had credit of £6,500 on his Tesco 
credit card, plus a loan from Tesco of (at that time) £8,863  so more than £15,000 of 
unsecured debt. This was quite a lot, and therefore we must be sure that Tescos checks 
were sufficiently proportionate.
Ive considered Mr S complaint in the light of this guidance. Ive looked at what Tesco 
checked, and the information they saw when the limits were increased in 2013 and 2017. 
They looked at Mr S records of his credit taken from other lenders. For this, they used CRA 
data  as do all credit card lenders. This showed he had a very low indebtedness score  
which meant he had little in the way of other debts. They also saw he had no defaults, CCJs 
(County Court Judgements), or bankruptcies against him. And they looked at how Mr S had 
run his credit card account with Tesco  there were no arrears, and there werent any over 
limit situations evident. Hed maintained payments to the account without fail and had almost 
repaid the balance on occasions.  Mr S had only used just over 30% of his limit in each of 
the periods leading up to the limit increases. So  they assessed Mr S to be a good risk.   
Ive looked at Mr S monthly credit card statements from 2011 onwards  up to when he ran 
into financial difficulty in 2019. And they confirm what I saw in Tescos analysis  Mr S only 
used about 30% of the credit limit  so that there werent any signs of pressure on his 
finances. And he did make all the minimum payments every month (approximately £25 a 
month in 2017). Sometimes Mr S paid a lot more  for example, I could see credits of £1,500 
paid in in September 2016 and again in December 2016, and £500 in April 2017. I also saw that Tesco wrote to Mr S ahead of the offered increases and the letters said he could opt out 
if he wished, but he didnt.
So, based on what Tesco saw  I think they acted responsibly. Mr S has said they didnt 
check his income and expenditure  and feels strongly about that. So, Ive considered this 
point. The checks needed to be reasonable and proportionate and bearing in mind the 
information gathered. So, if for example, the information that Tesco saw suggested he was 
under financial pressure  then we would have expected them to have done more checks, 
such as asking for Mr S income and expenditure and asking him more questions about his 
situation. But in this case  I think Tesco could reasonably conclude that Mr S finances were 
in good order. And so - there wouldnt have been a need to ask more questions of him.
Mr S has also argued that putting the credit limit on his statement was a temptation to him to 
spend more money. I appreciate what hes saying  but equally, there are no messages on 
the statements which encourage customers to spend more. And  in all honesty, its only fair 
that customers should be advised what their credit limits are.
In responding to our investigators view, Mr S raised a point about the loan he had with 
Tesco  he said that the card limits, along with the loan, amounted to a lot of debt and Tesco 
shouldve been aware of his overall situation. I looked at his application for the loan of 
£15,000 in November 2013. It was payable over 10 years for home improvements. The 
application showed that Mr S declared his income as £1,280 per month, with debt 
repayments (including the mortgage) of £511, plus the new Tesco loan payment of £161. 
After allowing for living expenses, there was disposable income of £229 each month. So  
the loan looked affordable. There werent any arrears or defaults with other lenders.  
Tesco told us that payments to the loan were made until September 2014 when Mr S paid 
off £4,000 from the loan. The monthly payments reduced to £115 and these were then made 
until Mr S ran into financial difficulty in May 2019. When Tesco looked at  the increase in the 
credit card limit in June 2017  they wouldve seen that the loan payments had been met for 
three and a half years - and the lump sum reduction had also been made. The balance of 
the loan was down to £8,863. So, it wouldve been reasonable of Tesco to conclude that Mr 
S was managing his overall finances satisfactorily at the time of the increase in the credit 
card limit in June 2017.
I can appreciate that Mr S feels strongly about what happened. But from our investigation of 
the circumstances of his case, and based on the information they had, I consider that Tesco 
lent to Mr S responsibly. I wont therefore be asking them to do anything.
(continued)
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman