DRN-2835479
The complaint
Ms G says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Ms G bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Ms G and AXA a provisional decision on 21 April 2021, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Ms Gs store card application gave an overview of what PPI was for and what it cost. Then 
there was a section where Ms G could sign if she wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if 
she didnt want it. Ms G signed specifically to buy PPI, separately to signing the application 
as a whole. And Ive not seen any wider problems with AXAs sales process from the time, 
nor anything which makes me think that Ms G was misled here. So I think its most likely that 
AXA made Ms G aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it 
at the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms G, so they didnt have to check whether it was right for 
her. They did have to give Ms G enough information to decide for herself whether the PPI 
was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Ms G about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Ms G chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like 
Ms G was eligible for the cover and it doesnt look like she was significantly affected by any 
of the policys main exclusions or limitations. For example, while Ms G mentioned having 
medical conditions, she told us that these werent diagnosed until some years after this sale, 
so they would not have been relevant here. And in any case, she also told us that shed 
never had time off work or had problems with those conditions by the point of sale. Ms G had 
work benefits available, but the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and covered her for 
longer. So the policy could have been useful for Ms G in case something went wrong. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms G could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off 
taking it out.
Lastly, Ive thought about the rules surrounding commission and profit share levels on PPI 
policies. But those rules are only relevant to lenders, and AXA were not the lender here.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
20 May 2021. But neither Ms G nor AXA sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think this particular PPI policy 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman