DRN-3785849
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy at Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) decision to close his bank account. 
What happened
Mr K held a bank account with Barclays. Following a visit to a branch of Barclays in January 
2022 Barclays took the decision to close Mr Ks account. It says despite previous warnings 
Mr Ks behaviour continues to be threatening and abusive to staff and this is unacceptable.  
Mr K denies this and says bank staff are lying and have misunderstood his behaviour 
caused by a medical condition. 
Barclays issued an account closure notice to Mr K on 11 January 2022 with a bank account 
close date of 10 March 2022.
Mr K was unhappy with this so brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Barclays had closed Mr Ks accounts in line with the terms and conditions of the account and 
hadnt made an error. 
Mr K disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr K wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint  that Barclays staff lied about his behaviour and 
unfairly closed his account. Our rules allow me to do that.
My role is to look at the problems Mr K has experienced and see if Barclays has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr K back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
As has already been explained by our adjudicator as a general rule Barclays isnt obliged to 
continue offering an account to a customer if it doesnt want to  providing banking facilities 
and to who is a commercial decision and not something for me to get involved with.
That being said it wouldnt be fair for Barclays to close Mr Ks account outside the terms and 
conditions of the account or without reasonable notice.
The terms and conditions of the account say that Barclays is able to close an account 
provided it gives two months notice. It is also able to close an account immediately if:
You behave in a threatening or abusive manner to our staff
But I dont need to make a finding on Mr Ks behaviour as I can see that Barclays issued the 
required two month closure notice on 11 January 2022 explaining that his account would be 
closed on 10 March 2022. So Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to close Mr Ks account in 
line with the terms and conditions and that no error or mistake has been made. 
And it follows that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman