DRN-3745966
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Covea Insurance plc has handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants his car repaired and compensation for his losses. 
What happened
Mr Ps car stopped working after he drove through some flood water and he contacted 
Covea to make a claim. Covea sent a photographer to take pictures of the car and then it 
instructed an independent engineer to inspect the car. He said there was no evidence of 
flood damage and the car should be uplifted to a dealers garage to check the electrics. 
Covea said it was for Mr P to arrange this in order to show that an insured event had caused 
the damage. It said it would reimburse his costs and pay for repairs if the diagnosis showed 
that an insured event had incurred. But Mr P declined to do this. Covea agreed that it had 
caused a delay in the claim by not appointing an independent engineer earlier. And it offered 
Mr P £50 compensation for this, which he rejected. 
Mr P provided an engineers report, but it wasnt from a dealers garage and it didnt say 
there was evidence of flood damage. Covea said it had delayed responding to Mr P and it 
said it would reimburse his costs if he obtained a dealers diagnosis, regardless of the 
outcome. But Mr P remained unhappy as hed incurred costs due to his car not working.
our investigators view
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr Ps 
policy provided for recovery to a garage if damage had occurred. And he thought Covea 
hadnt provided this. So he thought Covea should uplift Mr Ps car to a dealers garage for 
diagnosis. And he thought Covea should offer Mr P £100 further compensation for delays in 
the claim. But he thought Mr Ps policy didnt provide a courtesy car until the car was at an 
approved repairer. And he thought Covea wasnt responsible for Mr Ps other losses unless 
a claim was validated. 
Mr P replied that he wanted his car uplifted for assessment. Covea replied that it would offer 
£50 further compensation. But it said it was for Mr P to establish that an insured event had 
occurred. It said if this was shown, then it would reimburse Mr Ps costs and deal with the 
claim. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to Covea on 9 September 2022. I summarise my findings:
Mr P notified Covea that his car had stopped working due to electrical/mechanical failure 
after he drove through flood water. I could understand that Mr P wanted his car repaired. I 
could see that it was now some nine months since the incident, and I could understand that 
this must be causing him frustration and inconvenience. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Our Investigator looked at the policy booklet, and on page 10 under Benefits you receive it 
says:
Recovering your car
If your car is damaged and it cant be driven, well pay the cost of moving your car to the 
nearest approved repairer or place where it can be stored safely. If the repairer is within the 
territorial limits, well also pay the cost of returning your car home after it has been repaired.
Our Investigator thought this entitled Mr P to have his car recovered. But I didnt agree. I 
thought this only applied If your car has been in an incident and can be repaired when 
Covea had accepted and was dealing with a claim. 
And it hadnt yet been established that an insured event has occurred. Mr P drove through 
water, but two engineers didnt find any water damage in his car. And both recommended 
taking the car to a garage for diagnosis. And I thought Covea reasonably requested that this 
be done at a dealers garage. This was confirmed as appropriate by Mr Ps own engineer 
who thought that there may have been water damage to the electrics. 
This diagnosis may show that the damage was caused by the water, or that it was due to 
electrical failure. And I could see that on Page 13 of the Policy Booklet it states, 
We wont insure loss of or damage to your car caused by the following: Any mechanical, 
electrical, electronic chip or computer software breaking or failing to work properly.
I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to expect Covea to incur costs when an insured 
event hadnt been shown to have occurred. So I thought it was for Mr P to show that an 
insured event has occurred. And so I thought it was for Mr P to arrange for his car to be 
taken to a dealers garage for diagnosis to validate the claim. 
Covea had already agreed to reimburse these costs and deal with the claim if this showed 
that the problem was caused by an insured event. And I thought that was fair and 
reasonable. Mr P had already incurred costs by appointing his own independent engineer. 
But I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to expect Covea to reimburse this cost as it 
had clearly asked for a diagnosis from a dealers garage.  
Covea had agreed that there have been avoidable delays in the claim. These occurred when 
Covea didnt first appoint an engineer to inspect the car and when it didnt promptly respond 
to Mr Ps engineers report. But I couldnt say that it needed to compensate Mr P for not 
removing his car to a garage, for the reasons given above. Covea had offered to increase its 
offer of compensation for the delays to £100. I thought that was fair and reasonable as it was 
in keeping with our published guidance. 
Mr P said he had incurred costs due to his car not being repaired. If the claim was validated I 
would expect Covea to reasonably consider these costs on production of reasonable 
evidence for them. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr P or Covea, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to require Covea to pay Mr P £100 in 
total compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its delays in handling his 
claim, as it has agreed to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P replied that his complaint was that Coveas engineer hadnt made a thorough enough 
examination of his car, including an assessment of the electrical system for water damage. 
He reiterated that his car had been made undriveable by the incident. And so he thought his 
claim should be covered. Both engineers said that the car needed to be taken to a dealers garage for diagnosis. I 
reiterate that its for Mr P to establish that an insured event has occurred by arranging for his 
car to be taken to a dealers garage for diagnosis. Im satisfied that Covea has reasonably 
offered to reimburse his costs if he obtained a dealers diagnosis, regardless of the outcome. 
And, if this showed that an insured event had occurred, then it would deal with the claim and 
consider Mr Ps costs. 
Covea had nothing more to add. And Mr P hasnt provided any additional evidence for me to 
consider. So I can see no reason to change my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require Covea Insurance plc to pay Mr P £100 in total compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its delays in handling his claim, as it has already agreed to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Covea Insurance plc to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman