DRN-2875750
The complaint
In summary, Mr M complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited invested the 
proceeds of his pension transfer within a drawdown plan. He wanted the monies to stay in 
cash and was charged a fee for the advice. Hes unhappy with the service hes been 
provided with. 
What happened
In 2020 Mr M was advised by Prudential to transfer his retirement annuity into Prudentials 
retirement account (RA). In July the transfer completed, and Prudentials adviser fee was 
deducted from the proceeds of transfer.
At the beginning of July 2020, Mr M and his wife on his behalf, contacted Prudential. They 
explained that after taking tax free cash (TFC), they wanted the balance of the proceeds of 
transfer to be placed into cash. Mr M said they were told this wasnt possible, but an 
investment switch into cash could be made once the transfer had completed.
In August 2020, Mr M asked Prudential to switch the funds in his RA into cash. This was 
completed towards the beginning of September.
Prudential responded to Mr Ms complaint about the service he had received in September 
2020. It explained why it wasnt able to speak to Mr Ms brother. It said it thought the advice 
was suitable and it didnt agree to a refund of the advice charges. And it explained that the 
value of Mr Ms RA had increased from the time it had been invested to the time it was 
switched into cash, by £174.83. And it said that he had not therefore suffered any investment 
loss. 
Mr Ms concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. He explained why he wasnt 
upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr Ms representative didnt agree. In summary he accepted that companies had to be paid 
for transfer advice, but only if the process and advice had been professionally delivered. He 
accepted costs to date were due to Prudential but not necessarily due to the adviser. He 
queried whether there was any independent verification of Prudentials case notes and why 
there was no confirmation as to what was discussed to Mr M in writing. He believed advice 
and the process of implementation were all part of the same process. He was concerned 
that Mr Ms instructions regarding the investment of the proceeds of transfer had been 
ignored. 
The investigator then asked Prudential several questions, including if it had call recordings 
for the calls Mr M had with it. It explained that it didnt and that it wasnt required to record 
calls with financial advisers. It also said that as it considered the advice to be correct. It went 
on to say that if Mr M had cancelled the plan, the initial adviser charge in respect of the 
advice would still have to be paid. 
Prudential also explained that advice was required to take out the RA. But he could have 
contacted the RA team directly himself at any time to cancel its set up, or to make a fund 
switch request. Mr M could have invested the proceeds of transfer into cash after having 
taken his TFC, but he would have needed to have initiated that himself.
The investigator then wrote to Mr Ms representative again and explained what Prudential 
had told him. And he said he wasnt inclined to change his view of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr Ms representative responded. In summary he didnt think Prudential had provided the 
information needed in order to make a fair assessment. He went on to say that Prudential 
had failed to act on an instruction, and he believed the main reason for the advisers inaction 
was so the money was invested and he would then receive his commission. He didnt think 
the notes could be substantiated as being a true record of what was discussed. And he 
didnt think it had been clarified as to whether or not the adviser would have been paid any 
commission.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Mr M and his representative feel very strongly about the issues he has 
raised with Prudential concerning the investment of the monies into his RA. 
In reaching my decision Ive focussed on the key issues I think are relevant in order for me to 
decide if Prudential has done anything wrong. That means I wont have addressed every 
point Mr M and his representative have made. But I want to reassure Mr M and Prudential 
that I have thought carefully about everything they have said and provided me with. 
Mr Ms concerns appear to have stemmed from when the RA was being set up. He isnt 
happy that the proceeds of transfer after the payment of TFC, werent invested in cash as he 
says he requested. And for the avoidance of any doubt, I havent considered the suitability of 
the recommendation to transfer his pension into Prudentials RA drawdown plan. 
Prudentials contact notes record two conversations between Mr M on the 2nd and 3rd of July 
2020 with the adviser who recommended the transfer. In the record of the conversation on 
the 2nd of July, it appears there was a discussion regarding the balance of Mr Ms funds 
being invested in cash after the TFC had been taken. And this appears to have resulted from 
a conversation Mr M had with his representative. It records that Mr M was going to speak to 
his representative again, and the adviser said that he wouldnt be able to speak to Mr Ms 
representative as he lived abroad. So, it doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr M raised 
concerns about the balance of the proceeds of transfer being invested in line with the 
recommendation that had been made.
The record from the 3rd of July records that the adviser confirmed he wouldnt be able to 
speak to Mr Ms representative as he lived abroad. But he agreed to speak to Mr Ms wife. 
And this records that the adviser wouldnt do this, Mrs M was told that a move into cash 
could be made if they went direct. It records Mrs M was satisfied that if a switch could be 
made at some point in the future then that would be fine. 
Mr Ms representative disputes that Prudentials notes are an accurate record of what was 
discussed between Mr and Mrs M and Prudentials adviser. He has questioned why there 
was no confirmation in writing of what was discussed, and was concerned Mr Ms 
instructions regarding the investment of the proceeds of transfer had been ignored. Its not entirely clear to me what independent verification of Prudentials contact notes Mr Ms 
representative thinks should or could have taken place. But I accept the point he has made 
regarding the conversation and agreement reached, not being followed up by the adviser in 
writing. I think considering what was discussed, it would have been sensible for Prudentials 
adviser to have done that. And I am a little surprised that didnt happen. 
It would have been helpful to have call recordings of the conversations Mr M had with 
Prudential. Our investigator asked for those and Prudential has explained that they arent 
available. So, I have to consider what evidence is available to me. And I have thought 
carefully about what Mr M and his representative have told us, together with the 
documentation provided by Prudential.
Prudentials contact notes are a contemporaneous record of what was discussed. And as 
such, whilst I acknowledge what Mr M and his representative have said, I dont think it is 
unreasonable for me to consider them to be an accurate reflection of what was discussed 
between Mr and Mrs M and Prudentials adviser. 
Mr M has referred to an e-mail instruction to request an investment switch. But the only 
record I have seen is Mr Ms e-mail to Prudential of 6 August 2020, when he requested that 
all of the funds be switched into cash. Prudential wrote to Mr M on 10 August 2020 to 
confirm that the sale was being processed and would be settled by close of business on 7 
September 2020 after the 28-day waiting period on the current fund had expired.
In his communications with the investigator Mr M refers to being told by the adviser that he 
would need to go direct. As Ive said above, I think it would have been helpful if the adviser 
had followed up on the conversations with Mr M in writing. But I dont think he necessarily 
needed to as this was a follow up conversation after the recommendation had been made 
and no further recommendations were made in respect of the original advice. And I think that 
having been told that he needed to go direct I dont think Mr M should have assumed that 
what he had asked would be actioned by the adviser. In summary, based on all of the 
information I have; I simply cant safely say that a confirmed investment switch instruction 
was given by Mr and Mrs M during the conversations they had with the adviser. 
Even if I were to conclude that Mr M had provided a clear instruction that the proceeds of 
transfer should have been invested in cash, I would need to think about whether he had 
suffered a financial loss as a result of any switch instruction not having been actioned sooner 
than it was. And based on the evidence I have; I dont think he did suffer a financial loss. I 
say this because the information provided by Prudential shows that after Mr M was paid his 
TFC, the amount invested in his RA was £85,820.11. And at the time it was transferred into 
cash on 7 September 2020, it had increased in value by £174.83 to £85,994.94. And Ive not 
been presented with any evidence which suggests it would have had a higher value if it had 
been invested in cash from the outset.
Mr Ms representative seems to have accepted that Prudential was entitled to be paid for the 
advice it provided. But he has expressed concerns as to whether it was appropriate for the 
adviser to have received any commission, considering Mr Ms concerns about what 
happened when the plan was being set up. For the avoidance of any doubt I think it was 
appropriate for Prudential to take the adviser charges that it did. Advice was provided to 
Mr M and accepted by him. And whilst he may have concerns about what happened when 
the plan was set up, that doesnt mean Prudential was wasnt entitled to be paid for the 
advice it provided. And any remuneration it paid to the adviser out of the adviser charge, was 
in my opinion a commercial matter for Prudential to decide.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman