DRN-1811457
The complaint
Mr S complains that he didnt receive loan documents from Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
(trading as Tesco Bank) in time to complete a loan application. 
What happened
Mr S applied online for a loan with Tesco Bank on 5 September 2019. Tesco Bank confirmed 
Mr S loan was agreed in principle and sent him a copy of the loan agreement to sign and a 
request for a bank statement to be provided within 30 days. 
On 30 September 2019 Mr S called Tesco Bank and explained he hadnt received the loan 
documents. Tesco Bank offered to resend via recorded delivery but Mr S said he wouldnt be 
available to sign for them.
Mr S returned the signed loan agreement and sent a bank statement, but they werent 
received by Tesco Bank in time to meet the deadline and the loan application expired. 
Following Mr S contact Tesco Bank completed another credit search. Mr S complained that 
his loan application had expired and asked Tesco Bank to delete both the credit searches it 
had completed. Tesco Bank agreed to delete the second credit search as it hadnt obtained 
Mr S permission before completing it. But it refused to remove the original credit search as it 
accurately reflected Mr S had applied for a loan with Tesco Bank. 
Tesco Bank paid Mr S £150 and apologised for carrying out an unauthorised credit search. 
Tesco Bank also agreed there had been delays when responding to Mr S complaint. Mr S 
referred his complaint to our service and explained he had returned the information as soon 
as it had been received. Our investigator thought Tesco Bank had dealt with Mr S complaint 
fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S asked to appeal so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr S is upset. He successfully completed the first part of the loan 
application process and just needed to return the signed loan agreement and provide a bank 
statement to proceed. I dont doubt what Mr S has told us and that he responded to Tesco 
Bank at the earliest opportunity. My role is to look at the actions of Tesco Bank and decide 
whether it has made any errors and of it treated Mr S fairly. Whilst I understand Mr S 
concerns, I think Tesco Bank has treated him fairly in this case. 
Tesco Bank sent Mr S the loan agreement and an information request on 5 September 
2019. I appreciate Mr S didnt receive it in good time, but I cant hold Tesco Bank 
responsible for a delay in the delivery of post. Im satisfied Tesco Bank had the right address 
for Mr S and that it contacted him when he completed his online application. I dont know why the correspondence was delayed, but I havent seen anything to show Tesco Bank was 
at fault. 
Ultimately, Tesco Bank has a 30 day time limit to complete a loan application. When, on 30 
September 2019, Tesco Bank became aware Mr S hadnt received the loan documents it did 
try to help by offering to resend the information by recorded delivery. But Tesco Bank did 
explain that it wouldnt be able to extend the deadline. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S as I can 
see the required information was received a short time later, but Im satisfied Tesco Bank 
was entitled to end the application process after 30 days. 
Tesco Bank accepts that it shouldnt have carried out another credit search against Mr S and 
has removed it from his credit file. Mr S says he wants Tesco Bank to remove the original 
search from his credit file as well and that it has stopped him getting another loan. But Tesco 
Banks entry that notes Mr S applied for a loan is accurate. I note Mr S hasnt provided any 
evidence or details to show how the search on his credit file has impacted his ability to 
secure credit elsewhere. Its unclear whether a single search entry from Tesco Bank would 
substantially impact Mr S ability to get another loan. As Ive said, I agree with Tesco Bank 
that the record of the original credit search should remain as it is accurate.
Tesco Bank says it incorrectly closed Mr S complaint on 30 September 2019 which meant 
he didnt get a response as promised. Tesco Banks final response dated 15 October 2019 
apologised for the error and for completing a second credit search. Tesco Bank paid Mr S 
£150 in recognition of the service he received. I understand Mr S wants the original credit 
search to be removed, but I hope Ive explained why Im not telling Tesco Bank to take that 
step. Im satisfied Tesco Bank has dealt with Mr S complaint fairly and that the information it 
reports is accurate. As a result, Im not telling Tesco Bank to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman