DRN-3344381
The complaint
Mr G complains that his home insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA), 
unfairly declined his claim for the damage to his wall during a storm.
What happened
After an episode of bad weather in early October 2020 which was known as Storm Alex, Mr 
G called RSA and made a claim for a collapsed boundary wall. RSA sent loss adjusters out 
to inspect and they in return reported and referred the claim back to RSA as over the cost 
threshold for which they have authority from RSA.
Mr G said he understood that RSAs loss adjusters had approved his claim and when RSA 
told him otherwise, he complained. He said a storm had been named Storm Alex and in the 
absence of a policy definition, this should apply to his claim.
In its response to Mr Gs complaint, RSA said its loss adjusters hadnt reached a decision 
about the claim as this was RSAs responsibility. It said when it reviewed the loss adjusters 
report and weather information it decided the claim wasnt covered under the policy.  
RSA said Storm isnt defined in the policy, but wind gusts in excess of 47mph and rainfall 
exceeding 16mm per hour constitute storm conditions. RSA considered if it had been proven 
there were storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred. It said the weather 
data showed a maximum wind speed of 41mph, with rainfall significantly lower than the 
threshold, at a maximum hourly rainfall of 5mm, with the highest daily rainfall totalling 
37mm. RSA said this didnt constitute a storm and so the claim was correctly declined.
RSA said it wouldnt expect a well-designed, constructed and maintained wall to fall after a 
bout of poor weather. It said its loss adjusters hadnt reached a cause of damage but had 
said the build-up of the land and geology acted to retain water, with no drainage or piers in 
support, water pressure caused the wall to fall. And the damage is consistent with something 
that happens gradually over time. RSA apologised for the times Mr G had to chase answers 
on his claim and the worry and inconvenience caused and paid him £100 compensation.  
 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said weather data showed 
heavy rain but wind below 47 mph and rain alone cant constitute a storm. He said RSAs 
loss adjusters couldnt decide the claim due to the cost of repairs and RSA said the damage 
was due to wear and tear. The investigator agreed and felt the lack of Accidental Damage 
cover meant the claim wasnt covered. He said RSAs offer of compensation was fair. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigator. He said his policy covered him for storm damage and 
the authorities had declared a storm and so he should be covered. He said the loss adjuster 
said there was a storm and that he was covered if the costs had been within its authority. He 
said no further assessment was made of the wall and yet it was decided it was wear and 
tear. Mr G said the policy definition of storm is opaque and he requested an ombudsman 
review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the weather conditions at the time Mr Gs wall collapsed, at his policy, 
and the available information about the state of his wall. This is so I can determine if RSA 
has acted in accordance with the policy and if it has treated Mr G fairly in declining his claim. 
RSA and our investigator have based their rejection of Mr Gs claim and complaint on the 
lack of a storm at the time the wall collapsed. Mr G said that as the Authorities have named 
a storm (Storm Alex) for the time when his wall collapsed the issue is resolved.
Mr Gs policy provides cover for damage originating from a one-off storm event but does not 
define what constitutes a storm. RSA has said it considers a storm is constituted by winds in 
excess of 47 mph and rainfall exceeding 16mm per hour. This is fairly close with our 
services approach to storm conditions and I think its fair for RSA to apply these criteria to its 
decision on the claim.
 
Ive looked at the weather reports provided by both parties, which differ to some extent. The 
Meteorological Office report is headed, Storm Alex and heavy rain. The report covers the 
whole of the UK and puts the centre of the storm about 200 miles away from Mr Gs home. It 
said the storm was more notable for rain than wind but didnt describe wind or rainfall of the 
magnitude of RSAs storm definition for Mr Gs area. The Met Office report for Mr Gs area 
gives minor wind speeds and a maximum rainfall of 14.5mm in an hour. Further information 
puts the maximum wind speed near to Mr G at 41 mph. 
These conditions dont meet the assessment of a storm provided by RSA, or what our 
service considers as the essential elements of a storm. Although the weather event was 
named as a storm by the Met Office that doesnt mean there will be storm conditions in all 
areas of the country. And in this case, we cant say that there were storm conditions where 
Mr G lives. I think a normally constructed wall should be able to withstand the weather 
conditions in operation at the time the wall collapsed, albeit there was very heavy rainfall. 
Mr G said RSAs loss adjusters had said his claim should be met. RSAs loss adjusters 
reported on the cause of damage, storm water overloading soil and causing collapse. The 
use of the term storm water isnt linked to any assessment of the weather conditions at the 
time. The report makes clear that the claim is to be confirmed and this has since been 
reiterated by the reporting surveyor. And so, its not correct to say the loss adjusters had 
decided the claim should be met and would have been paid had the loss adjuster held 
authority. 
RSA decided that the hydrostatic pressure caused by the water would happen frequently in 
wet seasons, and over the years would gradually weaken the wall. RSA said the damage 
isnt as a result of a single storm, the weather present at the time of the damage has only 
served to highlight an existing defect or problem in the wall. I take Mr Gs point that after the 
loss adjusters initial assessment no further expert evidence was obtained about his wall and 
yet RSA decided that it collapsed due to wear and tear, which is excluded by the policy. 
Although I think RSAs assessment of the damage sounds the most likely explanation, I dont 
think this was a fully supported evaluation. I think its quite likely the wall collapsed during the 
period of bad weather known as Storm Alex, but due to inadequate design and build quality 
to withstand hydrostatic pressure from the build-up of rainwater in the ground. But I cant be 
certain whether the policy exclusions for this apply due to a lack of engineering assessment. 
However, because there isnt evidence of storm conditions in Mr Gs area at the time this isnt relevant as there is no cover in the policy for Mr Gs claim in any event. And so, the 
problem for Mr G is the absence of storm conditions and I dont think it matters about RSAs 
speculation as it isnt relying on the wear and tear or poor build quality exclusion clauses in 
the policy to defeat Mr Gs claim. 
Unfortunately, Mr G didnt hold cover for Accidental Damage on his policy, which might 
have covered his claim. And so, I am left with the unavoidable conclusion that RSA acted 
within the terms of the policy in declining Mr Gs claim for storm damage and its decision is 
fair.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman