DRN-3783447
The complaint
Miss C says Tesco Personal Finance PLC irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss C took out a loan from Tesco for £6,500 over 60 months in April 2018. The monthly 
repayments were £152.47 and the total repayable was £9,163.20.
Miss C says she had to take out other loans and credit cards to afford this loan which has 
left her in financial difficulties and impacted her mental health. She had only ever been 
accepted for a £200 overdraft when she applied had no experience of managing debt.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Miss Cs complaint. He said Tescos checks did not show any 
reason not to lend to Miss C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Our approach to complaints
about irresponsible lending is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
Before providing the loan to Miss C, Tesco was required to carry out proportionate checks to 
ensure the lending was affordable. There isnt a specific set of checks that need to take 
place, but Tesco was required to undertake reasonable and proportionate checks taking into 
consideration, amongst other things, the value and term of the lending and the borrowers 
circumstances.
To reach a decision on this case I have therefore considered if Tescos checks were
proportionate; if so, did it make a fair lending decision; and if not, what would better checks
most likely have shown.
In this case, before providing the loan, Tesco received information from Miss C about her 
income, employment status and residential status. It carried out a credit check to understand 
her credit history and existing credit commitments. It asked about the purpose of the loan 
which was to purchase a car. It then checked Miss Cs bank statements, due to her age and 
having no real information on her credit file as she had no other debts at the time. I think 
these checks were proportionate given her circumstances and the nature of the borrowing.
I have therefore looked at the results of the checks to assess whether I think the lending
decision was fair.
The credit check showed Miss C had no other debt and no other searches in the last six 
months. So, I do not find there was anything in this check that ought to have raised concerns 
that Miss C was in any way struggling financially at that time. Miss C had declared her 
income to be £1,000. I can see from her February 2018 bank statement it was £914.09. She 
was living at home and so her fixed costs were minimal  I can only find a car insurance 
payment of around £103.19 in terms of regular outgoings. And there were no signs of 
financial pressure such as the persistent use of an overdraft (indeed there was no use) or 
payday loans. Taking all this into account I think it was reasonable for Tesco to conclude the 
loan, with its monthly repayment of £152.47, would be sustainably affordable for Miss C.
 
So, in the round I think Tesco made a fair lending decision.
I note Miss C struggled to repay the loan. I can see her personal circumstances changed 
and she has had to deal with some difficult challenges. I am sorry to hear that Miss Cs 
financial position has impacted her mental health. 
If there remains an outstanding balance, I would remind Tesco of its obligation to treat    
Miss C fairly and with forbearance as she works to resolve her financial situation. I can see it 
rightly signposted organisations that can help and provide free debt advice in its final 
response letter.
 
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman