DRN-2772442
The complaint
Miss and Mrs M have complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold Mrs M a fee-
paying Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in November 2009. I understand that 
Miss M was later added to this account as a joint account holder in June 2010.
Miss and Mrs M say they thought the monthly fee was for an overdraft, and that the benefits 
that came with the account were a benefit included with the overdraft.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the URCA had 
been mis-sold. Miss and Mrs M disagreed with adjudicators assessment. So the matter was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I would also like to point out that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, as is the case here, I have to decide what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on all the evidence that is available.
Having considered everything that has been provided, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold. I 
will explain why.
Mrs and Miss M say the account was mis-sold on the basis that they thought they had to pay 
the monthly fee to have a £300 overdraft. However, I can see that Mrs M had a £100 
arranged overdraft on her account for many years before her account was upgraded to the 
URCA. I can also see that the arranged overdraft facility was then increased to £300 on 27 
October 2009 i.e. before Mrs M had been sold the URCA on 24 November 2009.
Therefore, based on the evidence I have seen, I think Mrs M was aware that she did not 
need a packaged account to have an overdraft or to increase her overdraft limit. So I think 
that Mrs M was aware that the URCA was an optional product, when she agreed to it.
I cant see that the URCA was recommended to Mrs M. This means that BoS was not 
obliged to check if the insurance products were right for Mrs Ms circumstances. But it was 
still required to provide Mrs M with enough information about the account, so that she could 
decide for herself, whether it was worth taking out.
When the URCA was sold to Mrs M, it cost £12.50 a month. One of the benefits it provided 
was a charge-free overdraft facility of up to £300. But in her response to the adjudicators 
assessment, Miss M says that there was no fee to use the overdraft on the existing account. 
However, around the time the URCA was sold to Miss M, BoS was in the process of 
changing how it charged its customers to use their overdraft. In summary, BoS went from 
charging interest when an account went overdrawn, to charging a fixed amount of £1 for 
every day the account remained overdrawn (although this fixed daily fee couldve been even 
higher, depending on how overdrawn the account became). This change in how BoS 
charged its customer to use their overdraft came into effect in December 2009  so only a 
few days after the URCA had been sold to Mrs M.
The overdraft benefit that came with the URCA meant that, Mrs M wouldnt have to pay the 
£1 daily fee (that wouldve applied to her existing fee-free account, when overdrawn) - 
providing she remained within her £300 limit. So essentially, as the URCA cost £12.50 a 
month, itd work out cheaper to have the URCA if Mrs M was overdrawn for 13 days or more 
each month, then if she had continued with her fee-free account and paid the £1 daily 
overdraft usage fee instead. 
Looking at Mrs Ms bank statements, I can see that prior to the upgrade, her account was 
almost always operating in an overdraft. And I can see that Mrs M continued to rely heavily 
on her overdraft after the URCA had been sold to her.
So taking everything into account, I think its likely one of the main reasons why BoS did sell 
the URCA to Mrs M was so that she would pay less to use her overdraft given the changes 
that were coming into effect, than if she remained on a fee-free account. And I think this 
explains why Mrs M recalls that she was told the monthly fee was for the overdraft - as it 
was essentially the case that by paying the monthly URCA fee, she would not have to pay 
any other fee to use her overdraft (providing she didnt exceed her limit).
Miss and Mrs M say that they thought the other account benefits were included with the 
overdraft. Therefore it seems that Mrs M was made aware of the account benefits when the 
account was sold to her. And Miss and Mrs Ms testimony shows that Mrs M was aware of 
the account cost, so again I think this was made clear to Mrs M when the URCA was sold to 
her.
I accept that Mrs M might not have been given all the important information about the 
account when it was sold to her. But Ive not seen anything about her circumstances, that 
makes me think she wouldve been put off taking out the account had she been given more 
information about it. Indeed, it seems Mrs M agreed to the account mainly for the overdraft 
benefit. So I doubt that being given more information about the other features wouldve 
affected her decision to upgrade her account to the URCA. Therefore, based on everything 
that I have seen, I dont think that the URCA was mis-sold. 
I appreciate that, due to how long Mrs M has held the URCA package on her account, she 
mayve since forgotten the ins and outs of how the URCA operated. And it may also be the 
case that BoS has changed how it charges its customers to use an overdraft, since when the 
URCA was first sold to Mrs M. But that does not mean that BoS was wrong to have sold the 
account to Mrs M when it did. And although Miss M says that BoS has chosen to uphold a 
similar complaint about another packaged account, I can only consider the facts of this 
individual complaint, when deciding whether the account in question was mis-sold. 
So overall, and having taken into everything into consideration, I dont think that BoS mis-
sold the URCA.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Miss M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman