DRN-2716186
The complaint
This complaint is about a decision by The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) to use 
compensation in respect of mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to reduce Miss Ls 
credit card balance. Miss L says the compensation should have been paid to her directly. 
She also says  RBS should compensate her for acting unreasonably by failing to pay her 
directly. 
What happened
In or around 2011, Miss L complained to RBS about mis-sold PPI through a claims 
management company. On 20 July 2011, RBS wrote to Miss L to offer a sum of £9,396.17 to 
settle her complaint. It said its offer was without any admission of liability as to whether PPI 
was mis-sold. It also said that the compensation would be automatically credited to Miss Ls 
card balance. 
RBS provided a copy of a credit card statement, which it says shows it refunded £9,369.17 
to Miss Ls credit card account on 25 August 2011. There was a surplus of £1,731.22, which 
RBS says was then refunded to Miss L by cheque. 
Our adjudicator thought the way RBS handled Miss Ls compensation was fair. Miss L did 
not agree with that view. She said: 
RBS should not have been allowed to retain her compensation without consultation 
with her, and in doing so, RBS had not put her back in to the financial position she 
would have been in if PPI had not been sold; 
If an account is in arrears, monies can be offset. But if there are no arrears, funds 
should be paid directly to a consumer. This is what had happened with other 
complaints Miss L made in respect of other credit cards; and 
Compensation in line with the Plevin judgment had not been paid to her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss L, but after giving careful consideration to the issues she has 
raised, I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Was RBS calculation of the compensation fair? 
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether RBS calculated its offer to Miss L fairly. 
I appreciate RBS said its offer was without admission of liability, but I would still expect it to 
calculate compensation to Miss L as though she had been mis-sold PPI. 
The purpose of compensating a consumer is to return that person to the position they would 
have been in if PPI had not been sold to them. For credit cards, Id expect RBS to work out 
how much Miss L would have owed if PPI hadnt been added to her account. To do that, it 
would need to work out how much Miss L had paid in PPI premiums and calculate any 
additional interest Miss L paid because of those premiums. If, when the account is 
reconstructed, Miss Ls credit card would have been in credit at any point, RBS would need 
to calculate 8% simple interest for when her account was in credit. 
RBS doesnt have a copy of its original calculation. Thats not surprising given the 
compensation was paid ten years ago. I wouldnt expect either party to keep records for that 
long and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. But it has provided a 
calculation as to how much it would have offered Miss L if it had calculated her 
compensation more recently. 
In considering that calculation, I can see RBS took all of the appropriate steps I have set out 
above. I can also see that the amount RBS offered Miss L to settle her complaint was more 
than she would have received following the most recent calculation RBS did. So I think its 
most likely the offer RBS made to Miss L was fair. 
Who should RBS have paid compensation to? 
Miss L disagrees with the decision of RBS to use her compensation to clear her credit card 
balance instead of paying her directly. I appreciate some businesses pay a consumer 
directly, but not all businesses operate in that way. But I have considered whether it was fair 
for RBS to reduce Miss Ls credit card balance with her compensation. 
I think its important for me to stress that PPI costs were charged to Miss Ls credit card 
account. So, she wouldnt have paid for the PPI until her account was in credit. Shes 
effectively added the PPI to her account balance and it forms part of her outstanding 
balance. In applying the compensation to what Miss L owed, the PPI costs are removed from 
that outstanding balance and Miss L doesnt have to pay them. 
I appreciate that when RBS reconstructed Miss Ls account, there were periods when she 
would have had a credit balance. However, I note from RBS most recent calculation that   
Miss L received more than the interest when the surplus amount was paid to her. I cant 
reasonably say Miss L lost out on that front. 
I know that Miss L strongly feels that the compensation should be paid to her directly. But I 
must point out that even if I did direct RBS to provide those funds to her, she would then 
have an immediate and substantial outstanding balance on her credit card.  
Taking everything into account, whilst I appreciate Miss Ls strength of feeling, I dont think it 
was unfair of RBS to credit her outstanding card balance with some of the funds it owed her. 
Miss L thinks she should be compensated for not having direct use of those funds. But as I 
think it was probably fair for RBS to use some of her compensation to pay her credit card, I 
dont think it would be right for me to tell RBS to compensate her further
Plevin 
Miss L says that further compensation should be paid to her in line with the Supreme Courts 
judgment in the case of Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance. In that judgment, it was held 
that if a lender would receive high levels of commission from a consumers PPI premiums, 
there was a duty to disclose that commission. It was held that the failure to make that 
disclosure amounted to an unfair relationship. 
So what that meant in practice was that a PPI premium paid by a consumer included some 
commission that was paid to the lender and not the insurer. But in this case, RBS has 
refunded all of Miss Ls PPI premiums. So the amount it has already calculated would have 
included the commission Miss L paid. 
I appreciate that most of that commission was most likely not paid directly to Miss L. But as I 
said above, it would have been charged to her account and so she hadnt paid for it either 
whilst her account was not in credit. As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Miss L, but for the reasons Ive set out, Im afraid I 
havent upheld her complaint. RBS doesnt need to take any further action in respect of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman