DRN-2741290
The complaint
Mrs c complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (HRG) wouldnt allow her to 
pay vouchers into her Argos card account.
What happened
Mrs C had an Argos card (provided by HRG) and in June 2020 used it to buy three electrical 
items from Argos  totalling £124.97. She also bought extended warranty cover for the items 
which cost a total of £19.57. This was provided by a separate company which I will call X. 
The items were faulty but she couldnt return them to the Argos store because it was closed 
due to the pandemic. She then bought replacements online. She subsequently returned the 
faulty items to Argos and got an Argos gift card for the value of the items.  
Mrs C complained. She couldnt return the faulty goods to Argos until later - because the 
stores were closed due to the pandemic. Because she had to accept vouchers for the faulty 
goods, she now had a debt on her Argos card of around £150. She wanted to use her 
vouchers to pay off this debt. She accepted that wasnt allowed as part of the terms and 
conditions of the Argos card, but said she should be allowed to do so because of the 
pandemic. 
HRG said that as part of the cards terms and conditions, it wasnt possible to accept 
vouchers as payment to the account. They said an Argos gift card could only be redeemed 
towards purchases made in Argos. It wasnt a payment card and couldnt be redeemed for 
cash, or as payment. They told us that it was down to the provider of the extended warranty 
(X) as to how they issue refunds.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that Argos acted within the terms 
and conditions of the card. Our service cant tell a business to change their policies and 
procedures - as that was the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mrs C didnt agree. She said that it would have been reasonable for HRG to accept the gift 
card as payment in the circumstances of the pandemic. Or at least  consider a payment of 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because of the way things played out during the pandemic, Mrs C found herself with a debt 
of £150 on her Argos card, and vouchers/gift card of a similar value. She feels that Argos 
cards should allow her to pay this into her account.
There are two organisations involved here. Argos card is provided by Home Retail Group, 
and the extended warranty cover is provided X, which then provided a gift card/vouchers for  
Mrs Cs claim.
And  Argos cards terms and conditions then say they wont accept vouchers (gift card) as 
payment as these say, Payments must be made in pounds sterling and from a UK based 
bank. And so  HRG acted within their terms and conditions.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) made several announcements during the pandemic  
which covered how they expected businesses like Argos to act. But there wasnt any 
guidance given which would cover the circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint. We cant make 
HRG change their policy  thats for them to do as a business. So - I must decide whether it 
wouldve been reasonable for HRG to accept gift cards as payment in Mrs Cs case. 
HRG told us that they cant accept gift cards as payment  their systems arent set up that 
way. And we cant tell it to do so. And in the particular circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint, I 
dont think it wouldve been reasonable to expect them to do something they werent able to 
do. 
And so  its clear that HRG havent made a mistake or error in doing what they did. I can 
see that Mrs C has found herself in an unfortunate situation, and that must be frustrating for 
her. But Im not going to ask HRG to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman