DRN-4370971
The complaint
Mr M and Mr S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC caused delays with their application for 
a consumer buy to let mortgage and the valuation carried out on its behalf was incorrect. 
They ask for compensation of about £12,000.
What happened
Mr M and Mr S had a residential mortgage with Barclays. They intended to buy a property to 
live in and let out the security property. They took advice from a broker and applied to 
Barclays in mid-April 2022 for a consumer buy to let mortgage to replace the residential 
mortgage. They expected to complete their re-mortgage and property purchase by mid-June 
2022.
Mr M and Mr S say Barclays caused delays, most notably by asking for an on-site valuation 
in late May 2022. The valuation was carried out in early June 2022 and was lower than 
theyd expected. Mr M and Mr S say the valuation was an error and was significantly lower 
than valuations carried out on behalf of other lenders at about the same time.
Mr M and Mr S applied elsewhere for a buy to let mortgage. They were on Barclays standard 
variable rate (SVR) from 1 June 2022 until they re-mortgaged and say they missed out on 
lower interest rate products due to the delays.
I sent a provisional decision explaining why I intended to uphold this complaint and require 
Barclays to pay £200 compensation. I also set out why I didnt think it was fair and 
reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation to Mr M and Mr S for them taking out a 
product with a higher cost than the product they chose when they applied to Barclays, or 
which might have been available in late May or early June 2022. Mr M and Mr S didnt 
agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Was it fair for Barclays to rely on the valuation?
Barclays is entitled to ask for a valuation of the security property to help it make a decision 
on whether to lend. Id expect it to instruct a suitably qualified valuer, which I think was the 
case here. I appreciate that lenders often rely on desk-top or drive by valuations. But 
Barclays was entitled to ask for an in-person valuation.
The valuation was carried out in early June 2022. The valuer said the estimated value (of 
£700,000) wasnt supported by sales of comparable properties in the locality. The property 
was valued at £495,000.
Barclays asked the broker to choose a new product (from its higher loan to value range) or 
reduce the loan amount. Barclays says the broker didnt respond. Mr M says both they and 
the broker immediately challenged Barclays and the surveyor. Mr M provided copies of 
emails with the surveyor and messages with the broker which support what he says.
Mr M provided a copy of his email to the surveyor, in which he explained why he thought the 
valuation was an error. He said this was because of the valuation in 2016 and improvements 
since, the agreed monthly rental, and an increase in property prices in the area and sale 
prices of flats in the same building. He said the surveyor could check this on-line. The 
surveyors said they could only discuss the matter with Barclays.
Barclays asked the firm of surveyors to review the application and provided a copy of their 
response. This said theyd reviewed the surveyor comparable tool, report and rationale and 
agreed with the valuation. They set out what had been taken into account in the valuation.
Barclays also provided an email from a surveyor within Barclays saying shed also reviewed 
the surveyor comparable tool and agreed the valuation was correct and supported.
Mr M and Mr S asked when these reviews took place. We asked Barclays this and it didnt 
tell us. Like Mr M and Mr S I assume the reviews were more recent than June/July 2022. 
Barclays did send, in confidence, its internal policy on valuation appeals. In summary, 
theres no right of appeal (this could explain why Mr M and Mr S say they were told theres 
no right of appeal). Barclays will consider an appeal only in specific circumstances, and 
theres no discretion outside this  either the criteria for an appeal are met or they arent.
Barclays says it has no record of Mr M and Mr S or the broker asking it to review the 
valuation before mid-August 2022. I appreciate that Mr M and Mr S say they were told no 
appeal was possible. Im not persuaded the points they raised at the time about the valuation 
would have met Barclays criteria for an appeal. But I havent changed my view that its 
unlikely this would have changed matters. Thats because the surveyors firm and Barclays 
internal surveyor reviewed the valuation and said they agreed with it.
Mr M and Mr S said asking the valuer to review the valuation only after theyd complained 
meant it wasnt independent. The valuation was carried out for Barclays, but the valuation 
was the valuers professional opinion.
Mr M and Mr S say valuations carried out on behalf of the lenders they later applied to 
valued the property at £620,000 and £650,000. Neither Mr M and Mr S nor Barclays had 
access to these valuations in early June 2022.
While I agree that the valuers instructed by the other lenders gave very different valuations, I 
must be clear that its not my role to decide whether the valuation carried out on behalf of 
Barclays was correct. What I have to decide is whether it was reasonable for Barclays to rely 
on the opinion of the valuer as to the value of the property. Barclays received a clear 
response from the firm of surveyors that they had reviewed the matter and stood by the 
valuation. There wasnt an obvious error in the valuation report. In the circumstances, I think 
it was reasonable for Barclays to rely on the valuation.
Barclays didnt decline the application at this point. It asked Mr M and Mr Ss broker to 
choose a different product, from the higher loan to value range, or reduce the amount of the 
loan applied for. I dont think it was unfair for Barclays to request this.Did Barclays cause delays?
Mr M and Mr S say their broker had problems with Barclays systems when they tried to 
submit an application in mid-April 2022. The application was submitted on 19 April 2022, a 
week after it was dated (12 April 2022).
Barclays says there was a mismatch with the records it held for Mr M and Mr S which 
needed to be sorted out before the application could proceed. It provided records which 
support this.
This was resolved on 27 May 2022. However, Barclays says it received the necessary 
documents on 13 May 2022 and should have ensured the account was updated sooner than 
27 May 2022. It says the outcome would have been the same but Mr M and Mr S would 
have had a decision sooner.
I dont think it was unfair or an error for an in-person valuation of the security property to be 
carried out. As this was arranged for early June 2022, I dont think this caused unreasonable 
delays.
Mr M says Barclays told him there was no process to review or challenge the valuation. Its 
possible that Mr M was given incorrect information about this. But I dont think this caused 
delays. The firm of surveyors stood by the valuation, so its unlikely any appeal process 
would have resulted in a change in the valuation. Mr M and Mr S needed to adjust their 
application to Barclays or apply elsewhere for a buy to let mortgage. They applied elsewhere 
without delay.
Mr M and Mr Ss broker submitted an application on their behalf to another lender on 8 June 
2022. This application didnt proceed to an offer. Mr M and Mr Ss broker submitted an 
application to a third lender on 11 July 2022. This did result in an offer, in August 2022. This 
had a higher interest rate and a higher product fee than the Barclays product. This mortgage 
completed in early October 2022.
I dont think Barclays is responsible for the time taken by the other two lenders to process 
the applications from Mr M and Mr S, or for six weeks passing between the mortgage offer 
and completion.
The only delay I think Barclays was responsible for was in failing to progress Mr M and 
Mr Ss application between 13 May and 27 May 2022. Its also possible delays in submitting 
the application in mid-April 2022 were due to Barclays systems. These delays amount to 
about two to three weeks. Taking into account the overall timescales, and that the second 
application was declined, I dont think I can fairly find that Mr M and Mr S would certainly 
have secured a cheaper interest rate product if there hadnt been this delay.
It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation to 
Mr M and Mr S for them taking out a product with a higher cost than the product they chose 
when they applied to Barclays, or which might have been available in late May or early June 
2022.
Barclays response to Mr M and Mr Ss complaint
I should explain that because complaint handling isnt a regulated activity we cant always 
look into it. We can do so in some circumstances, for instance if the way a complaint was 
dealt with delayed the underlying problem being resolved. I dont think that was the case 
here. Mr M and Mr S immediately applied to another lender after the valuation. The outcome 
of the complaint didnt change matters.Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay 
compensation to Mr M and Mr S for the higher cost of the product they took out compared to 
the product they chose when they applied to Barclays, or which might have been available in 
late May or early June 2022.
Ive considered whether the delays of about two to three weeks caused by Barclays resulted 
in financial loss to Mr M and Mr S. In particular, if they were on Barclays SVR for longer than 
they might otherwise have been.
Barclays wasnt responsible for the second application being declined, or the time taken by 
other lenders to progress their applications. Mr M and Mr S havent said why it took more 
than six weeks for the re-mortgage to complete after they received a mortgage offer. There 
were significant delays in Mr M and Mr S re-mortgaging which were not due to any errors by 
Barclays. Because of this, I dont think I can fairly say that the re-mortgage would have 
completed two or three weeks sooner but for the delays caused by Barclays.
Its likely that Mr M and Mr S were caused worry and inconvenience by the delays Barclays 
did cause, of about two weeks. Mr M and Mr S had committed to renting out the property 
from mid-June 2022, and their interest rate product expired at the end of May 2022. This 
was during a period of rising interest rates. Taking all this into account, I think its fair and 
reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation of £200 for the upset caused by its 
delays.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £200 to Mr M and Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman