DRN-2919128
The complaint
Mr J complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited (AIEL) declined to pay for 
damage to his car after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr Js car was damaged by an uninsured driver and declared a total loss. He made a claim 
and told AIEL that he was unemployed. AIEL said Mr J hadnt told it of this mid-term change. 
It said it wouldnt have continued to provide cover if he had. And so it wouldnt pay for the 
damage to his car. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the policy 
terms and conditions required Mr J to inform AIEL of any change in occupation. And she saw 
that its underwriting guide wouldnt have offered cover if he was unemployed. But she 
thought the change in occupation hadnt had a material risk to the policy. And so she thought 
it was unfair for AIEL to refuse to pay the claim. She thought it should pay Mr J £100 
compensation for his trouble and upset and pay him the market value for his car. 
AIEL replied that it thought Mr J had breached the policy terms and conditions by not telling 
it of his change in employment. It thought this changed the risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has told us that AIELs decision has had a significant financial impact for him. I can 
understand that he feels frustrated by this.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mr J was required by his policy terms and conditions to tell AIEL of any 
change in occupation, amongst other things. Mr J took out his policy through an online 
comparison site. So I cant see that this requirement was reasonably brought to Mr Js 
attention when he bought his policy. And so I cant safely say that its fair and reasonable for 
AIEL to rely on it to refuse to pay Mr Js claim. 
AIEL has provided us with evidence from its underwriting guide that shows that 
unemployed is an unacceptable occupation and if it had known that Mr J was unemployed 
it would have cancelled his cover. 
From what I can see, Mr J was employed when he first took out his policy. He was later laid 
off but offered re-employment by the same company. Hes provided evidence to show this. 
But the process was delayed due to the lockdown caused by the current pandemic. Mr J 
said hed found temporary employment elsewhere in the meantime. 
So Ive considered whether it was fair and reasonable for AIEL to decline to pay for the 
damage to Mr Js car due to this mid-term change.  
Our approach is that in most cases, if the consumer's circumstances change during the term 
of the policy, that is generally just part of the risk the insurer agreed to take on. When 
considering a mid-term adjustment, we would expect insurers to fairly consider the impact it 
has had. So if Mr J changed his employment and this increased the usage of his car 
significantly, it would be acceptable to consider this a high material risk.
But we're unlikely to think its fair for an insurer to void a policy, and decline a claim, where a 
consumer lost their job midway through the policy year. This is because we dont consider 
unemployment to be a high material risk.
And, considering the circumstances of this claim, I cant see that Mr Js employment status 
made a difference to the risk. This was because Mr Js car was hit by an uninsured driver 
whilst he was asleep in bed at night. 
So I think it was unfair and unreasonable for AIEL to refuse to pay for the damage to Mr Js 
car. This has been assessed as a total loss, so I think AIEL should now pay Mr J its market 
value, less the policy excess. And, as Mr J has been without his money for some time, I think 
AIEL should reasonably add interest to this settlement. 
I can see that the car was returned to Mr J by AIEL to avoid incurring storage costs. This 
wasnt Mr Js choice. So I dont think any deduction for the salvage value would be 
reasonable. 
AIEL didnt avoid or cancel the policy as it was kept live due to its Road Traffic Act 
responsibilities. So this shouldnt be recorded on any external databases. And so Mr J 
neednt declare this to future insurers. 
This matter had caused Mr J hardship and inconvenience. The investigator recommended 
that AIEL should pay him £100 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its 
what Id require in similar circumstances. 
Putting things right
I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr J £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
decision to refuse to pay for the damage to his car.
2. Pay Mr J the market value for his car at its date of loss, less the policy excess. Interest 
should be added to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the 
claim to the date of payment. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AIEL to take off tax from this interest.  AIEL must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) 
Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman