DRN-3607158
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is about the early redemption charge (ERC) they were asked to 
pay when they paid off their mortgage with Bank of Ireland (UK) plc (BoI). They are unhappy 
that they were told the wrong amount for the ERC and that BoI wont refund the difference 
between what they were told they would have to pay, and what they actually paid. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out their mortgage with BoI in 2018. They attached an interest rate 
product to the mortgage, which was due to expire at the end of May 2023, and had an ERC 
linked to it until that time. The mortgage offer that Mr and Mrs C accepted detailed the ERC 
as:
On or before 31 May 2020 4% of the amount being repaid Up to £9,400
1 June 2020  31 May 2022 3% of the amount being repaid Up to £7,050
1 June 2022  31 May 2023 2% of the amount being repaid up to £4,700
In the March of each year thereafter BoI sent Mr and Mrs C a statement for their account. 
This set out the basic details of the mortgage, including the balance, repayment type and 
remaining term. Immediately below that was the amount of the ERC that would be charged if 
the mortgage was repaid at the end of that month. The figures were:
2019 £9,169.31
2020 £8,855.09
2021 £6,399.84
In 2021 Mr and Mrs C wanted to increase their mortgage by £25,000. The application failed 
BoIs lending criteria, and it was declined toward the end of November 2021. A few weeks 
later Mr C called BoI to ask what the ERC would be if he repaid the mortgage. He was told 
£2,914.95. This was incorrect.
On 23 December 2021 Mr C requested a redemption statement, assuming the mortgage 
would be redeemed on 15 January 2022. He made the request using BoIs hub, which is an 
electronic portal.  The redemption statement was sent to the solicitors dealing with the 
re-mortgage the same day and detailed an ERC of £6,220.94. A copy should have been 
posted on the hub for Mr and Mrs Cs information, but was not, due to an error by BoI.
Mr and Mrs Cs solicitors asked for an updated redemption statement on 27 January 2022, 
which was sent on the same day and detailed an ERC of £6,195.86, assuming the mortgage 
was redeemed on 4 February 2022. The mortgage was redeemed on that day, the full ERC 
paid. Mr and Mrs C complained.
BoI responded to the complaint and acknowledged the error it had made. However, it said 
that as Mr and Mrs C were informed of the correct ERC before they redeemed their 
mortgage, and it had clearly been set out in the original offer, it would not be refunding the 
difference between the figure quoted in December 2021 and the amount paid in 
February 2022. However, it apologised for the error and paid Mr and Mrs C £150 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs C werent satisfied with BoIs response and asked us to look into their complaint. 
When they did, they said that they made their decision to re-mortgage based on the incorrect 
information provided by BoI and, had they known the truth, they may not have re-mortgaged 
at that time due to the size of the ERC. In addition, they feel that BoI has treated them 
appallingly and they want to be compensated for that.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He was satisfied that, while a mistake had been made on 9 December 2021, 
Mr and Mrs C had been told before and after, the correct information about the ERC. As 
such, only compensation for the upset and inconvenience was required, and the amount BoI 
had already paid was sufficient.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators conclusions and said that had they been given 
the correct information, they might have waited until later in 2022 to re-mortgage, when the 
ERC would have dropped. However, they hadnt found out the correct amount of the ERC 
until the day the re-mortgage went through. They said that the idea that BoI advised what the 
ERC was in statements etc. and that is why it wont stand by its error, was ridiculous to 
them. They said they were not mortgage experts and only looked at the balance on their 
mortgage statements. They also subsequently said that they didnt believe that BoI had sent 
a redemption statement to the solicitors in December 2021, as the solicitors had told them 
that it only became aware of the amount of the ERC in January 2022.
Our investigator considered what Mr and Mrs C had said, but he was not persuaded to alter 
his conclusions. He remained satisfied that Mr and Mrs C should have been aware of the 
correct amount of the ERC before the date the re-mortgage went through. Mr and Mrs C 
remained unhappy and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will firstly address Mr and Mrs Cs concern that the redemption statement they asked for in 
December 2021 wasnt sent to the solicitor dealing with the re-mortgage. BoI has provided 
its correspondence records for Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage and it shows that a redemption 
statement was sent in December 2021. The copy of the December redemption statement 
I have looked at used the same delivery method and address as the later redemption 
statement that clearly was received. As such, I consider that it is most likely that both 
redemption statements were received by the solicitors dealing with the re-mortgage and it 
was aware of the size of the ERC around six weeks before the re-mortgage completed.
BoI has admitted that a mistake was made and so I dont need to come to any conclusion on 
that issue. What I must decide is what, if any, consequences came about from that mistake 
and if Mr and Mrs C suffered a financial or other loss because of it. 
While Mr and Mrs C consider that BoI should be made to stand by the incorrect information 
they were given, that isnt how we assess redress on a case. We aim to place a consumer 
back in the position they would have been in, but for the mistake, not the position they would 
have been in if the mistake had been the correct situation. 
In this case Mr and Mrs C had been given information throughout about the size of the ERC. 
It was clearly set out in the mortgage offer that during 2021 and into 2022, the ERC would be 3% of the balance of the mortgage and could be more than £7,000. The mortgage statement 
sent to them earlier that year told them that the ERC at that time was almost £6,400. I note 
that Mr and Mrs C have said they only look at their balance on the mortgage statements 
when they receive them. However, the ERC is detailed immediately below that figure, so I 
think it likely they were aware of it and might have had cause to question that the figure in 
early December 2021 was less than half that amount. 
Mr and Mrs C have said that the solicitor dealing with the re-mortgage contacted them on the 
day the re-mortgage was due to complete about the size of the ERC, presumably because 
they had led it to believe that the ERC was meant to be significantly smaller. As I have said 
above, the solicitors were aware of this information for many weeks before the completion 
date, so it seem strange that, if it had concerns about the size of the ERC, it would have left 
it until the date of completion to speak to Mr and Mrs C about it. That said, if it did, the fact 
that it contacted Mr and Mrs C for their input would indicate that the re-mortgage could have 
been stopped if theyd wanted that to happen. Had they done so; they wouldnt have had to 
pay the ERC and could have delayed re-mortgaging until a later date, if theyd wanted to.
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs C should reasonably have known that the amount 
they were told the ERC was in early December 2021 was lower than it should have been 
and what the correct ERC was before they re-mortgaged their home. As such, I am not 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs C suffered a financial loss because of the error BoI made in early 
December 2021. 
That said, it is clear that the error raised Mr and Mrs Cs expectations and caused them 
upset. BoI offered them £150 compensation. Having considered the situation carefully, I am 
satisfied that is an appropriate sum, in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc has already made an offer to pay £150 
compensation to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So 
my decision is that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should pay Mr and Mrs C £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman