DRN-3909740
Complaint
Miss V is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed her account and then 
registered a fraud prevention marker against her.
Background
In October 2020, Miss Vs current account received payments of £308.69 and £620. These 
funds were immediately transferred on to third parties. 
Santander subsequently received notification from the third-party bank, responsible for 
sending the payments to Miss Vs account, stating that the payee of the funds had reported 
being a victim of fraud. As a result of this notification, Santander reviewed Miss Vs account 
and its investigation led it to decide to close the account and record a fraud prevention 
marker.
Upon learning of the fraud marker, Miss V complained. Santander looked at Miss Vs 
complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss V remained dissatisfied she referred the matter to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Vs concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss V unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss V disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss V is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Miss Vs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss V was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. This can include Miss V allowing someone else to use her account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Vs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Vs account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Santander 
did have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little 
more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Vs 
account in October 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss V was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Miss V has said that she doesnt know anything about the payments that came into her 
account and that she wasnt responsible for transferring the funds out. Miss V also said that 
no one else had access to her security credentials to be able to get access to her account.  
Ive thought about what Miss V has said. However, given Miss V has said that no one else 
had the details to be able to log in to her account, its difficult to see how someone else 
would have been able to carry out the activity concerned. It also looks like the funds were 
transferred to payees Miss V had previously made payments to before her account received 
the fraudulent credits. I appreciate that Miss V now says she doesnt know the people these 
payments were made to. But it does seem odd that she wouldnt have noticed or reported 
these payments, which were made from her funds ahead of the fraudulent funds coming in, if 
she hadnt authorised them to begin with.   
Overall Im afraid that the available evidence simply doesnt support Miss Vs version of 
events. And this means that I cant reasonably conclude she was an unwitting participant 
here. Instead, I think its more likely than not Miss V was complicit in her account receiving 
fraudulent funds which were then dispersed.  
So having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient evidence to 
show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Vs account. And it was also reasonably entitled to 
conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss V was complicit in this. As this is the case, 
I dont think that it was unfair for Santander to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Miss Vs account. The terms and conditions of Miss Vs account 
permitted Santander to close it immediately where it was used in any way to give rise to 
reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities. Ive already explained why I think 
Santander was reasonably entitled to conclude that Miss Vs account had been used for 
fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud 
prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Santander to close Miss Vs account without notice. And Im therefore 
not upholding Miss Vs complaint on this basis either.
So overall I dont think that Santander acted unfairly towards Miss V and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss V. But I hope Miss V will 
understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been 
listened to. Furthermore, Miss V might find that shes able to open an account with another 
bank as long as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or 
any such equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman