DRN-3411490
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) removed his arranged overdraft without 
notifying him. 
What happened
In April 2021, Mr B called Santander and let it know he was struggling to pay the overdraft 
fees it had applied to his arranged overdraft on his current account. He says Santander told 
him it could remove the overdraft, but it would affect his credit file. Or it said it could set up a 
repayment plan. Mr B said he didnt choose either of these options and instead said he 
would let Santander know. Mr Bs arranged overdraft at the time was £1,000. Mr B said 
following this, in May 2021 Santander removed his arranged overdraft without notice and 
used his universal credit payment to pay the outstanding amount owed. Unhappy with this, 
Mr B complained to Santander.
Santander issued its response to Mr Bs complaint in June 2021. It said when it spoke to    
Mr B in April 2021, it let him know there was a risk of the overdraft being removed if it was 
referred to collections. As the account was moved to collections in May 2021, it told Mr B it 
would remove the overdraft as it said he had told them he had access to another account 
and he would request his universal credit payments were paid into the other account. It 
agreed it didnt provide correct information to let Mr B know his temporary overdraft was only 
available for a short period of time, as it couldnt access this call. 
Santander said it wouldnt reinstate the overdraft but offered Mr B £650 compensation. This 
included £603.10 to represent the difference between amount Mr B would have had 
available and the amount it made available through a temporary overdraft. And it rounded 
this amount up to £650 to represent the incorrect information it provided Mr B.
Mr B contacted Santander after the £650 payment wasnt paid to him on 6 June 2021. 
Santander responded on 9 June 2021 and acknowledged it had told Mr B the amount would 
be paid on 6 June 2021, which was a Friday. It said it couldnt be paid until Monday              
9 June 2021 as it needed to be authorised by another team. It apologised and paid Mr B £25 
compensation.
Unhappy with this, Mr B referred his complaint to this service. He said the compensation 
Santander had offered wasnt enough. He said when Santander removed his overdraft, this 
led to him missing one monthly rent payment and so the arrears were now being deducted 
from his universal credit payments. He said his internet/phone was switched off and he was 
having difficulties paying his utilities providers. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought Santander had done enough to put 
things right. He said he didnt think Santander had used Mr Bs universal credit payment to 
clear the overdraft. He said Santander was entitled to remove the overdraft when it did, but 
he thought it could have improved the way in which it did this. Our investigator thought the 
£675 Santander had paid was fair and reasonable. Mr B disagreed.
As Mr B remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, Santander has agreed that it may have not been clear that it was going to 
remove Mr Bs arranged overdraft when it did. As it accepts this, Ive only considered 
whether its done enough to put things right. And if not, what if anything it needs to do 
further. Having done so, I think Santander has already done enough. Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed Mr Bs account statements. From these, I can see on 24 May 2021, Mr Bs 
account balance was overdrawn. The same day, Mr Bs arranged overdraft of £1,000 was 
removed. On 25 May 2021, Mr Bs universal credit payment was paid into the account. This 
payment brought the account into credit. However, following Mr B calling Santander the 
same day, it provided him with a temporary overdraft of around the same amount as his 
universal credit payment, so he could still pay his bills. Between 25 May 2021 and              
26 May 2021, Mr B transferred around the same amount of his universal credit payment to 
another account in his name. 
Having considered this, Im satisfied that although Santander removed the arranged 
overdraft facility, it allowed Mr B to use his universal credit payment when it was paid to him 
in May 2021. This is because it provided him with a temporary overdraft of around the same 
amount as his universal credit. And Mr B transferred an amount that was similar to his 
universal credit payment to another account. So he was able to make use of it.
In light of this, whilst Santander accepts it could have been clearer about explaining to Mr B 
that the arranged overdraft would be removed, I think it put things right when it allowed Mr B 
access to a temporary overdraft. So whilst I understand why Mr B may believe Santander 
used his universal credit payment to clear the arranged overdraft on his account, it rectified 
this the same day by providing him with a temporary overdraft. And it allowed him to access 
his benefit payments as I would expect it to.
Overdrafts are repayable on demand. So Santander was entitled to remove the arranged 
overdraft when it did. However, in this case it accepts it could have been clearer about this.
Mr B has said Santander impacted his mental health as he was unable to pay his bills and 
he fell into rental arrears. Mr Bs account statements show that between 28 May 2021 and 
September 2021, a number of Direct Debit payments to a utility and two communications 
providers have been returned. 
Ive thought about the position Mr B would have been in, had the arranged overdraft not 
been removed when it was. Having done so and considering the transfers Mr B was able to 
make out of his account, Mr B would still have had around £600 in his arranged overdraft to 
make use of, had the arranged overdraft limit remained at £1,000. I appreciate Mr B would 
like the outstanding overdraft amount written off. But having considered this, I dont think 
Santander need to repay Mr B any of the capital amounts he made use of during this period 
of time, as he had benefit of these funds. 
In any event, Santander has already paid Mr B a total of £675 and this was paid to Mr B on  
9 June 2021. This was around two weeks after it removed the arranged overdraft facility. So 
given that Santander provided Mr B with a temporary overdraft limit the same day he 
complained to it, and it paid him £675 around two weeks after it removed the arranged 
overdraft, I dont think it needs to do anything further. This is because I think Santander 
acted in a timely manner, it put Mr B back in around a similar position he would have been 
had the overdraft not been removed by providing him with a temporary overdraft and it paid 
him £675 to put things right. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear about the impact to Mr B, I think the amount Santander has 
paid Mr B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So it follows that Santander dont 
need to do anything further.My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman