DRN-4235678
The complaint
Mr B complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect him from a scam. 
Mr B is being represented by a claims management company, but for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to Mr B in my decision. 
What happened
In 2022 Mr B saw and then clicked on an advert on social media about investments. He then 
received a call from a merchant, Ill refer to here as D and was encouraged to start 
investing. D encouraged Mr B to open an account with Revolut so that he could make the 
payments towards the investment.  
On 25 August 2022 Mr B opened the account with Revolut with the help of D who asked Mr 
B to download software to his device so he could share his screen and see what was 
happening. Mr B then proceeded to make the following payments to two genuine crypto 
exchanges;
Date Payee Amount Method of payment 
25/08/2022 Crypto exchange £1,000.00 Debit card payment    
29/08/2022 Crypto exchange £6,395.00 Faster payment 
outwards    
29/08/2022 Crypto exchange £4,489.78 Debit Card Payment 
29/08/2022 Crypto exchange £4,077.06 Debit Card Payment    
31/08/2022 Crypto exchange £1,000.00 Debit Card Payment    
12/09/2022 Crypto exchange £2,000.00 Debit Card Payment     
28/09/2022 Crypto exchange £5,000.00 Faster payment 
outwards    
04/10/2022 Crypto exchange £4,240.00 Debit Card Payment 
Total loss £28,201.84
The £6,395 payment was flagged by Revolut and Mr B was asked for the reason he was 
making it. Mr B then selected transfer to a safe account. After a further warning was 
provided the payment was allowed to be sent. Mr B then continued to make the further 
payments to the crypto exchanges, listed above, before his money was transferred on to D 
with Ds help via software Mr B had downloaded, for a total loss of £28,201.84.
After asking for a withdrawal of the profits Mr B thought he had made, he became suspicious 
of Ds actions and requests to enable him to successfully withdraw his money. So, he 
contacted Revolut to make a claim. 
Revolut considered the claim but didnt offer to refund Mr B. It said it provided a sufficient 
warning to Mr B based upon the reason he selected for the payment. So, it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong.  
Mr B remained unhappy so be brought his complaint to this service. He said he had fallen for 
an elaborate scam and Revolut failed to do enough to stop him from losing his money. He 
said the payments were unusual and that Revolut had missed eight opportunities to stop this 
scam. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that Revolut provided a 
sufficient warning after stopping the second payment and he couldnt say Revolut couldve 
done more in the circumstances because Mr B had provided an incorrect payment reason. 
So, he didnt think Revolut had treated Mr B unfairly in all the circumstances. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that Revolut was on notice 
that a scam was taking place when Mr B selected transfer to a safe account. Therefore, it 
shouldve done more to contact Mr B and speak to him about what was happening. And if it 
had the scam wouldve more than likely been uncovered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr B feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Should Revolut have done more to stop the payments and what difference would it have 
made?
When Mr B opened the Revolut account at Ds request he said the reason the account was 
opened was to spend or save daily. When Mr B made the second payment towards the 
scam this was flagged by Revolut. Mr B provided a payment purpose and was given a 
warning based upon the payment purpose Safe account transfer. I think its worth noting 
here that Mr B has said he was told by the scammer to click on any payment reason so that 
the payment could go through. And Mr B had downloaded software allowing the scammer to 
see the payments as they were being made. Id consider that to be a form of coaching in this 
instance. Although Mr B wasnt told to outright lie to Revolut about why he was making the 
payment, being told to pick any payment reason so the payment can go through and to act 
without due care and attention has had a similar outcome  in that he didnt select the 
correct payment reason and was also extremely unlikely to take any notice of what the 
warnings were trying to explain to him due to being under the scammers instruction.  
Mr B says more shouldve been done by Revolut such as the payment being blocked and a 
conversation between himself and Revolut about the payment. But I dont agree. Firstly, Im 
satisfied a warning was provided (albeit the incorrect one due to Mr B selecting the wrong 
payment reason) and then subsequently ignored. Here, the account was opened because of 
the scam under Ds instructions. So, there was very little information in terms of a payment 
history for Revolut to consider whether these payments were sufficiently unusual. As a result, I think Revolut hasnt treated Mr B unfairly by asking for a payment reason for the 
second payment and providing a fraud and scams warning based upon the answers Mr B 
provided. 
Ive considered the further point Mr B has made that even though the wrong payment reason 
was selected, this still shouldve put Revolut on notice that a scam was happening. And 
therefore, Revolut shouldve spoken to Mr B. I understand what Mr B is saying here but I 
dont think a safe account payment will always be because of a scam. The payment reason 
could be selected where consumers are moving money to another account they own and 
consider to be safe - such as a savings account or a consumer has selected the wrong 
payment option. When opening the account, Mr B said he was using it to spend and save. 
So, moving money to a safe account wouldnt be that unusual in the circumstances. And I 
think its worth repeating here that Revolut did provide a sufficient warning in the 
circumstances about that particular payment reason. 
So, Im satisfied that the warning Revolut provided was proportionate based upon the scam 
risk it identified and the payment reason that it was given. And, in all the circumstances, I 
dont think Revolut treated Mr B unfairly by allowing the payment and the others that 
followed to be sent. After the second payment was made by Revolut this established a 
pattern of spending on the account where it wasnt unusual for Mr B to send larger payments 
to crypto exchanges.  
So, I dont think Revolut shouldve done more to stop the payments. 
Chargeback
The chargeback process is relevant here. A chargeback is the process by which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants, under the relevant 
scheme rules. What this means is that Revolut can, in certain circumstances, ask for a 
payment Mr B made to be refunded. One of those circumstances is where the goods or 
services arent supplied or as described by the merchant Mr B paid. 
A chargeback isnt guaranteed to result in a refund. There needs to be a right to a 
chargeback under the scheme rules. And under those rules the merchant can defend a 
chargeback if it doesnt agree with the request. If a chargeback is defended, the card issuer 
(in this case Revolut) can make a second presentment of the chargeback by providing 
further supporting evidence. If it is still defended by the merchant, it can ask the card 
scheme provider to decide whether a refund should be given. This, final part of the 
chargeback process, is called arbitration. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to process a chargeback when a consumer asks for 
one. But we would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the 
rights exist and there is some prospect of success. 
But here a chargeback wouldnt have been successful for the payments to the legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchanges, as the money Mr B sent was used to purchase the 
cryptocurrency as per his intention. So, Mr B duly received the service he paid for on his 
debit card. The money was subsequently lost from the crypto platform when the funds were 
transferred to the scammer. So, he couldnt claim that he didnt receive the goods or 
services paid for from his Revolut account, which was the purchase of the cryptocurrency. 
Having carefully considered this complaint, Im acutely aware of the significant impact this 
whole situation has had on Mr B. And Im of course very sorry to hear that he has lost such a 
significant amount of money. But Im afraid I dont think Revolut are responsible for his loss 
here. So, Im not going to ask Revolut to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman