DRN-2477715
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with Fairmead Insurance Limiteds (Fairmead) handling of a subsidence 
claim he made under his buildings insurance policy.  
What happened
In August 2018, Mr W contacted Fairmead, expressing concern that his home was showing 
signs of subsidence. Fairmead instructed a loss adjuster who arranged for the property to be 
inspected. The claim was accepted relatively quickly, however, it then took a long time 
before the method by which the claim would be settled was agreed.
Mr W expressed concern about the loss adjusters involvement. He didnt feel they were 
properly carrying out their role and expressed concern about both their handling of the claim 
and their communication. As a result, Fairmead took over the handling of the claim. 
In the two years that followed, Fairmead considered a number of options in respect of how to 
settle the claim. The scale of the work required was extensive, so Fairmead considered a 
payment to reflect the diminution in market value. Obtaining valuations that might support 
this approach took some time. Then further valuations were required as there was a 
discrepancy between the first two valuations obtained. 
In addition to this, there was consideration given to the garage at Mr Ws home. This had 
been the subject of a historic claim. However this needed to be reconsidered in terms of any 
reinstatement works that were being considered for the house. Additionally, there were 
various options being considered in respect of the scope of the works that needed to be 
carried out. 
Unhappy with the time taken for the claim to be settled, Mr W made a complaint. He said he 
was concerned about the state of his home, and whether it was safe for him and his family to 
remain there. Mr W felt some of the delays were avoidable because he had already 
arranged for a number of inspections and a period of monitoring to take place before lodging 
his claim. 
Fairmead responded to two complaints from Mr W. In the first final response, sent to Mr W in 
January, it acknowledged some of Mr Ws concerns about temporary repairs carried out to 
the flat roof, which had failed. It also noted that the service Mr W had experienced from the 
loss adjuster fell below the standard it would expect on occasion and paid him £150. 
In the final response sent in October 2020, Fairmead acknowledged Mr W had been further 
inconvenienced as a result of problems with the flat roof and offered another £100. It also 
said it would consider some of the costs Mr W had incurred in instructing his own experts, as 
long as those reports directly related to the claim. It said it would not provide compensation 
for any perceived loss of earnings as the policy didnt provide over this. It explained in 
response to Mr Ws concerns about the condition of his home that it had arranged for a 
further inspection of the property. 
In respect of the claim, Fairmead presented Mr W with three options. It said it would provide 
a cash settlement based on the costs it would incur when carrying out the reinstatement 
work, or to arrange the works itself. The last option was to provide a payment in full and final 
settlement based on the diminution in market value. In order to try and move things forward, 
Mr W chose the first option.  
However, generally unhappy with Fairmeads response, Mr W referred his complaint to this 
service. He felt Fairmead was wrong to initially focus on settling the claim by considering a 
payment for the diminution in market value, and that it only offered him the three options for 
settling the claim after he formally complained. And he doesnt agree the policy terms allow 
Fairmead to limit the cash settlement to what it would incur, not the full cost of the repairs.  
He also said they didnt take any steps to stabilise his home. Our investigator looked into Mr 
Ws concerns but considered Fairmead had acted unfairly. As Mr W didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of Mr Ws complaint arent in dispute. Hes told us hes primarily concerned with 
the time taken to resolve the claim, that he believes the policy is unclear and what he 
perceives to be a general lack of effort to resolve this matter. In addition to this, there have 
been other issues raised directly to Fairmead, and Ill address those first. 
During the course of the claim, Mr W said Fairmead should have considered the expert 
reports he instructed before lodging his complaint, which hes indicated cost in the region of 
£25,000. Ive considered the policy terms here to see what Mr W is entitled to in respect of 
these costs. The policy terms say reports of this nature will be considered if theyre incurred 
with Fairmeads consent. In this case, I understand Mr W is referring to costs he incurred 
before he contacted Fairmead to lodge his claim. Fairmead has offered to consider these 
reports if theyre provided. I think this is reasonable as they werent obtained with Fairmeads 
consent. 
Mr W says he has lost income as some of his clients have revoked their contracts with him, 
citing concerns about the safety of his home. I sympathise with Mr W here but having 
considered his policy terms, I cant see that it provides cover for loss of income. On this 
basis, I cant fairly say this is something Fairmead is required to compensate Mr W for. 
Ill turn now to Mr Ws concerns, saying his home is unsafe and uninhabitable. I can 
understand Mr W remains concerned about this given the finding his home has experienced 
movement and requires extensive reinstatement works. His home has been inspected a 
number of times during the claim. Fairmead has offered to consider further evidence from Mr 
W that would support his concerns about the house continuing to move to the extent it is not 
habitable. In its final response in October 2020, Fairmead offered to consider photographs if 
Mr W wanted to submit these to support his concerns. In this respect, I consider Fairmead 
has responded appropriately to Mr Ws concerns when theyve been raised. 
That being said, there have been issues with the house. A temporary repair was carried out 
on the flat roof which then leaked again. As I understand it, this has now been repaired. 
However, I agree that this would have caused Mr W some additional worry and concern that 
might have been avoidable. I note hes been paid compensation in respect of this.
Mr W has told us he has significant concerns about the length of time handling the claim has 
taken. I can understand this, and I dont think either side would dispute that the claim has been ongoing for a long time. The key issue here is whether it could have been resolved 
sooner.
The reinstatement works required are complex, neither side dispute this. However, Mr W 
feels that that based on the evidence he obtained before making the claim, this should have 
sped things up. However, I dont think its as straightforward as this. Like our investigator, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Fairmead to explore settling the claim by way of a 
payment to reflect the diminution in market value. I say this given the complexities and 
potential cost of the reinstatement works needed. 
Another of Mr Ws concerns focused on how Fairmead will settle his claim. In the final 
response from October 2020, Fairmead offered Mr W three options to settle the claim. It 
offered to cash settle the claim based on the cost to it, make a payment to reflect the 
diminution in market value or it would arrange the works itself. 
Mr W chose the first option which had been put to him for Fairmead to pay a cash 
settlement based on the cost to it for the reinstatement works. It offered to pay a proportion 
of the sum to enable Mr W to start the works, but said it required invoices for future 
payments.  
Mr W has decided the claim should be settled by way of a cash settlement so he can instruct 
his own contractors to carry out the reinstatement works. But he doesnt consider it fair he 
might not receive enough funds to cover the full amount his contractors might charge. In 
considering this point, Ive looked at the policy terms, which say:
1. We will pay the cost to us of any necessary replacement or repair work carried 
out provided that immediately prior to the incident giving rise to the damage 
a) the buildings are in good repair and 
b) the sum insured is sufficient to allow complete rebuilding of the buildings 
including Additional Costs
Based on this, as Mr W chose for the claim to be settled by way of a cash settlement, 
Fairmead is only required to pay what it would cost them to carry out the repairs. Im 
satisfied the offer made to Mr W was clear in this respect and gave him the opportunity to 
decide how to move forward. 
Mr W says he needs the entirety of the funds released to him before he starts the works. He 
considers it will be more difficult to appoint a contractor without evidence of the funds being 
immediately available. Fairmead says it will release some of the funds ahead of the works 
starting, but after this point it will release the money in instalments. Ive considered the 
arguments put forward by both sides here. However, I dont consider Fairmeads position to 
release the funds in instalments unusual or unreasonable. It follows I wont be directing it to 
make the full payment to Mr W upfront.     
Following on from this, Mr W has expressed concern about the length of time taken for the 
schedule of works to be devised. And while I appreciate this matter is still ongoing, our 
investigation is limited to October 2020, when the final response letter was issued. That 
being said, Fairmead has provided an explanation to this service outlining the various steps 
that need to be taken for the schedule of works to be drawn up. This isnt a straightforward 
process even with in the most straightforward of circumstances. But the reinstatement works 
for Mr Ws home are increasingly complex. For example, the consideration of the garage 
took a considerable amount of time, along with deciding how best to try and stabilise the 
property. I can see variety of options were considered and this not only added to the overall 
time taken, but also highlighted the complexity of the repairs required.This claim has been ongoing for a long time. But I havent seen anything in my review which 
indicated its been the subject of avoidable delays or that it could have been resolved 
sooner. 
I appreciate this has been a very worrying and stressful time for Mr W. Fairmead has paid a 
total of £250 in recognition of the trouble and upset hes experienced. In particular this was 
in relation to some poor communication from the loss adjuster at the start of the claim and in 
relation to the failed repairs for the flat roof. In respect of these issues, I think the 
compensation here is a fair reflection of the trouble and upset Mr W experienced. 
However, Ive concluded that there havent been any avoidable delays in the handling of the 
claim. I consider Fairmead has generally communicated well with Mr W in respect of the 
avenues it was exploring to settle the claim. I appreciate this has been a very difficult time for 
Mr W, but I consider that is more as a result of the overall circumstances he finds himself in, 
I dont agree its as a result of Fairmeads handling of the claim or lack of desire to see this 
matter resolved, as he believes. I appreciate this wont be the answer Mr W is hoping for, 
and Im sorry that my decision is likely to be a disappointment to him. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman