DRN-2753916
The complaint
 Mrs L believes The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (TCFC) acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing a hire purchase agreement shed applied for.
What happened
 In March 2016, Mrs L was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
TCFC. The agreement was for £4,494 over 36 months, with monthly repayments of £218.74. 
After falling in to arrears several times over the course of the agreement, Mrs L cleared the 
finance in full in September 2019.
Mrs L has complained that TCFC didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. Shes 
said she still owed over £1,000 on an agreement on her previous car (which was no longer 
roadworthy) and couldnt afford another one. Shes also said she was gambling online at the 
time and was in a debt management plan (DMP). So it shouldve been clear to TCFC that 
this agreement was unaffordable. TCFC didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly, so Mrs L 
brought her complaint to us for investigation.
TCFC provided a copy of the credit file and the income and expenditure calculation they 
considered when they approved Mrs Ls application. Based on this, our investigator said she 
didnt think TCFC had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks  they didnt account 
for the money Mrs L owed on her defaulted accounts; they didnt take any allowance for 
payments she made to her DMP or to her payday loan; and they didnt allow enough for her 
regular monthly expenditure given that she had four dependent children.
The investigator thought TCFC shouldve asked for evidence of Mrs Ls income and 
expenditure, rather than relying on what shed declared. So the investigator did these 
checks, based on Mrs Ls bank statements at the time to show what her financial position 
was. And this showed the loan wasnt affordable to Mrs L. 
Because Mrs L had already settled the agreement in full, the investigator said she should 
only have to pay the money she borrowed. So she thought that TCFC should refund her all 
of the interest and fees shed paid them, plus interest on this refund. And she said they 
should also remove any adverse information from her credit file.
TCFC didnt respond to the investigators view. So this has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did TCFC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs L 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did TCFC make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs L 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did TCFC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that TCFC didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mrs Ls 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did TCFC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs L would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
In their final complaint response letter, TCFC have said they confirmed Mrs Ls income from 
the information she provided, including her bank statements. And they calculated this to be 
£1,729.44 a month (including benefits). And they took into consideration the expenditure Mrs 
L had declared on the income and expenditure statement - £1,176.95. So TCFC calculated 
Mrs Ls disposable income at £552.49 a month. Allowing for a £300 buffer for emergency 
expenditure, TCFC said Mrs L had £252.49 a month to pay their payment of £218.74. So 
they considered the loan was affordable at the time Mrs L took it out.
Mrs Ls income and expenditure statement, dated 12 March 2016, shows she declared an 
income of £1,792.33 a month. It also shows she declared monthly outgoings of £1,217.90, 
which include £373 a month towards her credit commitments. There are handwritten notes 
on this statement, which show TCFCs amended income, expenditure and disposable 
income figures referred to in their final complaint response letter.
TCFC provided a copy of the credit file they checked at the time of Mrs Ls application. This 
says Mrs L had 17 active credit accounts, owed £19,535 on revolving credit and owed 
£8,577 on loans. It also showed that Mrs L had previously relied on short-term payday loans 
and that she was in arrears with a mail order account at the time.
The credit file shows Mrs L paid £373 a month towards a mail order account, loan and 
existing car finance. But it also shows she had an outstanding payday loan and owed 
£12,345 on her defaulted accounts  the balances for most of which show that Mrs L was 
still making regular monthly payments, albeit only a few pounds a month per account. 
As TCFCs disposable income calculation said that Mrs L only had £33.75 a month without 
taking into consideration the payday loan and the payments to the defaults; had these been 
taken into consideration, the disposable income wouldve been less  and maybe not 
enough to support the loan Mrs L had applied for. Given this and the mail order arrears, 
which may have been an indication of current financial difficulties; I wouldve expected TCFC 
to do additional checks before making their lending decision.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs L could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?The main additional check Id expect TCFC to have done is to check Mrs Ls income and 
expenditure to ensure their finance was affordable at the point of application, and to see that 
affordability was sustainable throughout the lifetime of the lending. While TCFC have said 
they used Mrs Ls bank statements to verify her income, they didnt use these same 
documents to verify her expenditure.
Mrs L has provided her bank statements for the periods 18 January to 22 January 2016 and 
29 January to 8 March 2016. She signed the agreement with TCFC on 12 March 2016 so, in 
the absence of anything else, I think these statements give a good indication of what TCFC 
would likely have discovered if theyd asked about Mrs Ls expenditure at the time and/or 
checked the bank statements theyd been provided with for any payments she was making.
The bank statements show that Mrs L received an average of £576.52 a month from her 
main employer; £63.92 every other week from a second employer; £274.20 every four 
weeks from child benefit; and £131.05 a week tax credits (which had reduced from £156.10 
a week over the period of the statements). So this would give her an average monthly 
income of £1,579.95. Which is less that the £1,729.44 TCFC had calculated.
The bank statements dont show most of the monthly household/utility outgoings Mrs L had 
declared; but they do show additional undeclared payments relating to car ownership  
payments to the DVLA and insurance payments. And payments to the payday loan and Mrs 
Ls DMP showed on her bank statements. There were also regular gambling transactions.
Which means that the monthly expenditure TCFC calculated for Mrs L would need to be 
increased by £69.76 a month for the car costs. And the payday loan payment, and the 
payment to the DMP, would increase Mrs Ls credit commitments outgoings by a further 
£169 a month. Which gives an adjusted monthly expenditure of £1,415.71.
And this means that Mrs L only actually had £164.24 a month disposable income before 
TCFC could account for their £300 buffer and their loan payment of £218.74. Based on this, 
Im satisfied that, had TCFC carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, they wouldve 
seen that the finance wasnt affordable or the payments sustainable. And they wouldnt have 
approved the loan. So, in not doing the additional checks Id expect them to do, TCFC didnt 
act responsibly when approving the finance.
Did TCFC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think TCFC acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
Putting things right
 Mrs L had use of the car while she was paying the finance payments, so I think its right that 
she should pay for the car. But, because the finance should never have been agreed, I dont 
think its right that he should have to pay any interest or charges. And her credit file should 
reflect that the finance shouldnt have been approved.
So, TCFC should:
refund all of the interest and charges applied to Mrs Ls finance agreement, plus 
simple interest at 8% from the date the interest and charges were paid to the date of 
the refund ; and
remove all records of the finance agreement from Mrs Ls credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires TCFC to take off tax from this interest. TCFCmust give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs Ls complaint. The Car Finance Company 
(2007) Ltd must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman