DRN-2215208
The complaint
Ms E complains that Leeds Building Society didnt inform her that the term of her mortgage 
wouldnt reduce when she made overpayments. Ms E wants to exit this mortgage without 
paying an early repayment charge (ERC) as it isnt the mortgage that she thought she was 
getting.
What happened
In 2018 Ms E took out a mortgage with Leeds with a discounted interest rate fixed for five 
years. The mortgage was for £175,000 to buy a property worth £285,000. This meant that if 
she redeemed the mortgage in whole or in part during that period, she would pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC). But, according to the mortgage terms, Ms E could make 
overpayments in each calendar year up to 10% of the capital balance. Ms E understood that 
by making the overpayments and continuing with the existing monthly repayments that this 
would reduce the mortgage balance and so the mortgage term. Ms E says that she was told 
this by Leeds mortgage advisers when she made the overpayments. 
Leeds says that the effect of the overpayments was to reduce the mortgage balance and so 
reduce the interest paid each month but not reduce the term of the mortgage. Leeds say that 
this is clear from the mortgage offer but it accepts that it should have been clearer about this 
when Ms E contacted its advisers and offered Ms E compensation of £100.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that Leeds 
had explained how it would deal with the overpayment in the mortgage offer. Ms E disagreed 
saying in summary that the mortgage offer isnt clear and that with previous mortgage she 
was able to maintain the payments and reduce the term.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms E has an agreement with Leeds whose terms are set out in the mortgage offer. As is 
normal with a discounted mortgage rate those terms include an ERC for early redemption or 
partial early redemption. This will occur where an overpayment is made. From my reading of 
the mortgage offer, Leedss terms allow an overpayment of 10 % of the capital per year 
without incurring an ERC. This then sparks a recalculation of the interest due on the 
remaining capital balance and an amended monthly payment. The problem is that any 
further overpayment, which I read to be any payment additional to the reduced monthly 
payment, may incur an ERC. So, if Ms E was to make an overpayment and then to resume 
her existing monthly payments rather than the reduced ones, she may be exposed to an 
ERC.
Apparently, Ms E was told that wouldnt be the case by the mortgage advisers she spoke to 
and Leeds has accepted that this could have been misleading, So, it agreed not to charge 
an ERC in 2020 although Ms E maintained the existing payments and in addition offered 
some compensation of £100.
Leeds operates its overpayments policy in a different manner than Ms E experienced with a 
different lender.  Ms E also has difficulties with the logic of that policy, and I can understand 
her position. But if Leeds sets out its policy in a mortgage offer and operates in a manner 
consistent with that policy, I cant say that it has acted unfairly. Its advisers appear to have 
misinterpreted that policy, but Leeds seems to have acted to prevent Ms E suffering any 
detriment so that her overpayments didnt spark an ERC and she was offered reasonable 
compensation. So, I dont agree that I can fairly require Leeds to do more. Even if it operated 
the overpayments system differently than other lenders, that its choice and it set out how it 
would act under the terms of the mortgage offer.
I note that Ms E in her complaint says that had she known the way the overpayments system 
worked with Leeds that she may have reorganised her finances differently. But Leeds didnt 
recommend this mortgage to Ms E and didnt provide her with financial advice so I cant fairly 
conclude that its misled Ms E when she took out the mortgage. For the above reasons I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman