DRN-1841479
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unreasonably refused to pay her 
claim under her pet policy. She also complained about the delays by UKI in dealing with her 
claim. 
What happened
Mrs R took out this policy on 16 May 2018 for her dog. In July her dog needed corrective 
surgery on his tail as it was a screw tail and had caused him problems culminating in this 
surgery removing it due to it now becoming infected.
UKI assessed the claim from the vet history and letters from Mrs Rs ordinary vet and 
specialist vet. It said it was a pre-existing condition and therefore was excluded under the 
policy.
Mrs R complained but UKI wouldnt change its stance, so she brought her complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt think UKI did anything wrong. Mrs R disagreed so her complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
The policy defines and deals with a pre-existing condition as the following under General 
Condition 2:
 We won't cover any claims in connection with or arising from any pre-existing 
condition.
Pre-existing condition is defined as:
Any condition or symptoms, or signs of injury or illness, that happen or exist in any
form before the pet was covered by this insurance.
This exclusion is very common in pet insurance policies, so I dont find it unusual or unfair.
The policy was taken out on 16 May 2018 so therefore if Mrs Rs dog had been treated 
previously for any issues concerning his tail or emanating from the condition of his tail prior 
to this date, any ongoing issues with his tail would therefore be classed as a pre-existing 
condition.
The vet history show Mrs Rs dog visited a vet in August 2014 because of his tail. Her dog 
wouldnt let her touch or clean his tail and the skin around the tail had become inflamed. The 
vet at that time said if the condition persisted the dog may need to have his tail removed. 
Further in 2017, Mrs Rs dog was taken to the vet where it was noted the screw tail was 
mucky and difficult to get to due to the deformity of the tail. In May 2017, Mrs R took her 
dog to a specialist vet for her breed of dog who advised there would be problems in the 
future which would mean having his tail amputated.
Eventually Mrs Rs dog developed an infection in his tail which then necessitated the 
removal of his tail, given that was to facilitate the removal of the infection which is the subject 
matter of this complaint.
It doesnt matter that the infection in the tail of Mrs Rs dog didnt happen until after the 
policy was taken out. What matters is that her dog had problems with his tail clearly 
documented in the vet history before the policy was taken out which also warned of the risk 
of the surgery for which Mrs R has claimed. Which then UKI ultimately declined to pay due to 
its pre-existing conditions exclusion. 
With this type of pre-existing exclusion which includes the words exist in any form I dont 
consider UKI did anything wrong in declining to pay Mrs Rs claim.
The issue isnt that this was the first time the tail actually got infected, the issue is that the 
vet history has detailed issues with the tail of Mrs Rs dog to include the risk of this surgery, 
prior to the start of date of this policy. Therefore there is nothing wrong with UKI deciding 
here that it was a pre-existing condition. And that wouldnt be because her dog was born 
with a screw tail but solely because her dog had previous issues with his tail.
I cant comment on the issue that Mrs R believes UKI has paid out on other claims 
concerning a screw tail as I can only deal with the facts of this complaint.
Like the investigator, I dont consider UKI unreasonably delayed in dealing with Mrs Rs 
claim. The claim was made on 30 July 2019 and UKI first gave its decision to decline to pay 
that claim to Mrs R on 15 August 2019 after it had received the vet history from her vets. 
Thereafter given Mrs R was understandably unhappy with its decision, it agreed to review 
the matter and any further evidence. I would have expected it to do this and Im glad it did 
this. Thereafter were some delays in UKI being able to speak with the relevant vets, which 
Mrs R acknowledged could be an issue and for which obviously I cant hold UKI responsible.
My final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman