DRN-3715846
The complaint
Mr F complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) gave him a loan 
he couldnt afford to repay. Mr F went on to say that the high interest rate had a damaging 
effect on his finances. 
What happened
Mr F took one loan from Mr Lender for £300 on 11 January 2022. Mr F was due to make six 
monthly repayments, with the highest one being £158. The loan was repaid in full on 16 
March 2022. 
Mr Lender considered Mr Fs complaint and issued its final response letter. Mr Lender 
concluded it hadnt made an error when it approved the loan because it carried out a 
proportionate check which showed it that Mr F could afford the repayments. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr F referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He concluded Mr Lender made a 
reasonable decision to lend the loan because based on the information Mr Lender gathered 
the largest monthly repayment looked affordable for Mr F.  
Mr Lender acknowledged the adjudicators assessment but didnt have any further to add. 
Later, Mr F said he didnt agree with the outcome and wanted an ombudsman to consider 
the outcome, but he didnt provide any further comments for consideration. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr F could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Fs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr F. These factors include:
Mr F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr F.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr F was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Fs complaint.
Before the loan was approved, Mr Lender took details of Mr Fs income and expenditure. 
Mr Lender recorded Mr Fs income as being £2,600 per month with monthly outgoings of 
£1,600. Mr Lender was therefore aware that he had around £1,000 per month to make the 
largest monthly repayment of £158. 
Before this loan was approved Mr Lender also carried out a credit search and it has provided 
a summary of the results. 
It is worth saying here that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely 
possible that the information Mr Lender received may not entirely reflect the information Mr F 
may be able to view in the credit report that he can obtain. There could be for a number of 
reasons for this, such as Mr Lender only asking for certain pieces of information such as the 
number of active credit accounts. 
But what Mr Lender cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the 
information it received  if necessary.  
Ive considered the summary of the results that it has provided. Having reviewed these 
results, there isnt anything that wouldve indicated that Mr F was having financial difficulties, 
for example it knew there wasnt any insolvency markers such as County Court Judgements. 
Mr Lender was aware of one outstanding advanced against income loan  which is likely to 
be a pay day loan. However, as part of the expenditure information Mr Lender had already 
noted there were payments of £300. So, I think, its likely this loan was factored into 
Mr Lenders affordability assessment  and even considering this the new loan still looked 
affordable. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Mr Lender to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr F had provided. Or anything else to suggest that Mr F was having financial difficulties or 
that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to 
have relied on the information Mr F provided about his income and expenditure, which 
showed he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to 
making. So, like the adjudicator Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint about the loan.
Im therefore not upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman