DRN-4216281
The complaint
A limited company, which I will refer to as B, complains that Bank of Scotland plcs errors 
meant its new mortgage completed two weeks later than it should have done.  
What happened
Bs directors told us:
They approached Bank of Scotland to apply for a commercial loan to purchase a 
property. They told the bank that the anticipated completion date was the end of 
August 2022.
Bank of Scotlands service was slow, and there was miscommunication between 
themselves, the bank, and their solicitors. They did not actually complete until 
7 September 2022, despite having received indicative quotes on 23 June 2022.
As a result of the delay, they were homeless for two weeks  and had to pay for nine 
days of accommodation for themselves and their pets. They also resigned from their 
jobs two weeks earlier than they would have done if theyd known about the delay, so 
they lost earnings.
B had to pay a higher interest rate than it would have done had the mortgage 
completed on time. If the loan had completed even one day earlier, the rate would 
have been 0.1% lower.
What should have been an exciting time in their lives turned into an extremely 
stressful nightmare.
Bank of Scotland told us:
When Bs directors originally approached it, they said they intended to trade at their 
new premises through a partnership. They later decided to trade through a limited 
company, and that change in business structure added complications.
The directors solicitor provided the wrong name for their partnership, and it was 
necessarily for that to be corrected.
It could not have completed on the loan before 6 September 2022, because that is 
the date it received a necessary cross guarantee from the directors solicitors. 
However, it does accept that completion could have occurred on 6 September 2022 
(rather than 7 September 2022) if its staff had been able to speak to one of Bs 
directors by telephone on that date.
Overall, it is satisfied that it handled Bs lending application within its normal 
timescales and process. 
However, it accepts that it made mistakes with respect to customer service, and in 
particular it accepts that it broke a promise to the directors regarding updates. It 
explained that it does not usually give updates directly to a borrower when it is 
liaising with that borrowers solicitor and broker  but in this case, given that it agreed 
to provide updates, it should have done so. However, it said that even if updates had 
been given the length of time to complete Bs lending application would not have 
changed.
It also accepts that it wrongly sent some documents regarding internet banking to the 
directors old address.
It offered B £100 to apologise for its poor service, but the directors declined its offer. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. She didnt think Bank of Scotlands errors 
had caused B to suffer a financial loss, but she thought it should pay an additional £100 to 
compensate B for the inconvenience its errors had caused.
Bank of Scotland accepted our investigators conclusions, and agreed to pay a total of £200 
to B. Bs directors did not accept her conclusions, and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is very little I can add to what our investigator has already said. 
I accept the directors evidence that they were clear from the outset that they wanted the 
loan to complete by the end of August 2022. But that was less than three months after the 
bank provided indicative quotes. It is common for commercial loans to take much longer than 
three months to arrange, but three months is not an unreasonable timescale if everything 
goes well. I therefore I think it is likely that various members of the banks staff did tell the 
directors that they saw no reason why completion could not happen by the end of 
August 2022  but that is not the same as a guarantee of a completion date.
Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland did not promise Bs directors that completion would 
happen by a particular date. Such a promise would be unusual; it is very rare for banks to be 
sure that they are willing to lend before they have undertaken all the relevant legal work. In 
addition, I accept Bank of Scotlands explanation that the change in business structure and 
the confusion over partnership name caused complications. 
I acknowledge that Bs directors will strongly disagree with me, but overall I think Bank of 
Scotland handled this lending application within the timescales I would expect. I therefore 
make no award for any costs B incurred as a result of completion happening a few days after 
the end of August 2022.
However, I do agree that Bank of Scotlands customer service should have been better, and 
it should pay some compensation as a result. 
Putting things right
My aim here is to award compensation for the impact of Bank of Scotlands customer service 
failures on B. That is because Bank of Scotlands customer here was B, and not Bs 
directors personally. As a limited company, B is not itself capable of suffering distress.Whilst I think Bank of Scotland could have done more to try to contact Bs directors on 
6 September 2022, I can see that it did attempt to call at 12:16pm and 12:26pm. It has 
explained that it doesnt usually try to contact customers to agree completion after 1pm, and 
I think that is reasonable. Even if Bank of Scotland had made further attempts to call the 
directors, there is no guarantee that completion could have occurred on 6 September 2022.
Bank of Scotland should have done more to keep the directors informed of the process of 
Bs application, but I dont think its failure to do so had any impact on the overall timescales. 
I consider that the impact of Bank of Scotlands failure on the limited company B was fairly 
limited, and therefore that compensation of £200 is fair and reasonable in respect of the 
inconvenience Bank of Scotlands errors caused to B.
I acknowledge that the directors were themselves extremely distressed, and the fact they 
could not move to their new property on the date theyd expected caused huge upheaval to 
them and to their pets. I dont underestimate the difficulty the directors would have had in 
finding somewhere to live at very short notice. But I have no power to make an award in 
respect of the distress they suffered personally. Even if I did have such power, as Ive said 
Im not satisfied that the delay in completion was a result of an error by Bank of Scotland. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I order Bank of Scotland to pay B £200 to apologise for the 
inconvenience caused by its poor customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman