DRN-1935978
The complaint
Mr F complains that MYJAR Limited didnt do enough checks before lending to him.
What happened
Mr F had three loans from Myjar between September 2017 and August 2018 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 26 Sep 2017 £2,050 364d £310.01 25 Sep 2018 12 May 2018
2 11 Aug 2018 £475 76d £248.83 26 Oct 2018 24 Aug 2018
3 25 Aug 2018 £2,000 368d £305.70 28 Aug 2019 19 Jan 2019
Mr F says he couldn't afford the loans and had to re-borrow to make repayments. He says 
suitable checks were not carried out and his credit file would have shown a poor financial 
record. He says he wasn't asked about his partners circumstances, but as she was self-
employed with health concerns the household income was variable. Mr F adds that he had a 
number of loans with other lenders and household bills were often paid late. He says that his 
credit rating has been badly affected and hes had to use his pension to repay the loans.
Myjar says it asked Mr F about his income and expenditure at the time of each application 
and cross-referenced the information provided with external sources including the credit 
reference agencies. It says it considered its checks were proportionate to the circumstances 
of the loans and found the repayments to be affordable.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that, although 
he considered Myjar should have carried out better checks for loan 3, there was nothing in 
the available information that would have indicated the lending was unsustainable.
Mr F responded to say that the value of his first loan should have caused Myjar to carry out 
better checks. He says that had it done so, it would've seen hed borrowed that amount one 
day after being paid. Mr F adds that his credit file showed missed payments and a low credit 
score and Myjar didnt verify the information hed provided. Mr F says he and his partner 
both had other loans, some of which had payment arrangements, and theyd had to borrow 
from family members. He says his borrowing had shown a clear dependency on such 
lending for 11 years and yet these loans are intended for temporary, short-term use. Mr F 
says his household outgoings far exceeded his income but figures provided to Myjar may not 
have reflected that as it was unclear whether to provide individual or household figures.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr F and to Myjar on 18 May 2020. I summarise my 
findings here:I was satisfied Myjar did enough checks before approving loan 1 and that there was 
nothing in the available information to indicate the repayments were unaffordable;
As Mr F repaid loan 1 early and loan 2 was for a smaller amount, after a gap in 
borrowing, I was again satisfied Myjars checks went far enough and didnt indicate 
Mr F was struggling financially;
Mr F applied for loan 3 the day after hed repaid loan 2, and the requested amount 
was significantly higher than the previous loan, so I considered Myjar should have 
carried out a full financial review before it approved it;
Such a review was likely to have found monthly credit commitments of over £1,000 
which, with his other expenditure, meant Mr F had about £350 of disposable income 
each month;
Given loan 3 was for a 12-month term, and Mr F would have been left with 
a maximum of £50 each month for unforeseen expenses, I found it likely Myjar would 
have considered the loan to be unaffordable had it carried out proportionate checks.
 
So my provisional decision was to uphold Mr Fs complaint about loan 3.
Mr F responded to say he had no further information to add, but Myjar did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint. MYJAR Limited should:
Refund all interest and charges that Mr F paid on loan 3;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative information about loan 3 from Mr Fs credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give Mr 
F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman