DRN-3030896
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Bs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although BoS 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer 
as if it had.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided BoS didnt need to tell Mr and Mrs 
B about the commission it received - so BoS doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI. But in any event BoS has paid back some of the 
cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons 
for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because while BoS no longer has much of the paperwork 
from the time of the sale (not unsurprising given the passage of time) it has provided us 
with some examples, which it says represents what Mr and Mrs B would have likely 
seen. And these show that a consumer would have understood they had a choice about 
PPI and they had to agree to take it out.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence that 
something different happened when Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage and PPI, I 
think its likely that they chose to take out the policy and did so without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B - so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example Mr B as the 
sole policyholder was eligible for the cover and he told us he didnt have any (enhanced) 
sick pay and jointly they didnt have any savings. So it seems like they had a need for 
cover  I think Mr and Mrs B would have come under some financial pressure if Mr B 
was unable to work for an extended period of time.
There was nothing about Mr Bs employment or occupation, which would have made it 
difficult for them to claim. I can see that Mr and Mrs B say they feel the policy was mis-
sold because it didnt cover the self-employed. But Mr B told us and BoS that he was 
employed  so this isnt important to the outcome of their complaint. Mr B told us he was 
in good health at the time  albeit because Mr and Mrs B took out the policy at the same 
time as their mortgage the exclusion for existing medical conditions didnt apply in their 
case. So overall I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended it.
I accept that its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs B 
as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. And at just over £10 a month it also looks like it 
was affordable  so given this together with a benefit period of 24 months, it seems like it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs B would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs B have said that Mr B was made redundant and when they tried to claim on the 
policy they couldnt. But BoS says they did make a successful unemployment claim. 
So it seems Mr and Mrs might be mistaken. But if they are referring to a different claim and 
they have any concerns about it, then they should contact BoS in the first instance.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Bs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has paid back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it needs to 
do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs B should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: BoS failed to tell Mr and Mrs B about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Bs PPI was less than 
half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BoS has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr and Mrs Bs case was 
less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed to tell Mr and Mrs B about the commission. So it follows that I dont 
think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think BoS treated Mr and Mrs 
B unfairly. 
This means BoS doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs B back any of the commission they paid for 
the PPI. 
But in any event BoS has paid back to Mr and Mrs B some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mr and Mrs B as if it had treated them unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt need to disclose 
the commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs B 
paid for the PPI. But Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has paid back some of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B  so it doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman