DRN-3040883
The complaint
Ms P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) closed her 
account without providing sufficient notice and prevented her from gaining the expected 
benefits.  
What happened
Ms P had a credit card with American Express. 
On the 11 February 2019 American Express sent Ms P a letter informing her that her 
account would be closing in 14 days. And shed need to settle her balance of £701.50. 
Ms P wasnt happy with American Express actions. In particular she was frustrated that 
American Express prevented her from earning enough points to obtain her companion flight 
voucher  an advertised benefit for her credit card. 
Ms P complained to American Express but they didnt uphold her complaint. American 
Express explained that theyd followed their terms and conditions when closing Ms Ps 
account  and in not providing Ms P with the companion flight voucher. 
Ms P wasnt happy with American Express response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ps complaint. And partially upheld Ms Ps complaint. 
In summary she felt that American Express hadnt evidenced why theyd closed Ms Ps 
account with 14 days rather than 2 months notice. Our investigator recommended that Ms P 
be compensated £100 in recognition of American Express closing her account early. 
However, she didnt think that the closure of the account unfairly deprived Ms P of the 
companion flight voucher based on the terms and conditions of the agreement.  
American Express didnt accept our investigators conclusions, and asked for further 
clarification on why she thought the bank had acted unfairly in not giving Ms P the full notice 
period.
Ms P responded with a number of points to our investigators view, specifically advising 
shed paid £63.05 towards her credit card agreement therefore the £100 compensation was 
in reality significantly less. Ms P also argued that the terms of her account arent specific in 
stating that the cardholder needs to present the same card when redeeming their voucher, 
and based on her spending Ms P would have met the £10,000 threshold to be eligible. 
Our investigator issued a second view, with the same outcome as the first. In summary our 
investigator explained they thought the pro rata charges Ms P had paid were fair considering 
shed had access to the card for that period. And there was no evidence Ms P could 
successfully apply for a new card or use another customers card to redeem the voucher. 
Ms P responded with further points, in summary she said:
There are no terms which indicate the cardholder is required to use the same card to 
pay for additional charges linked to the companion voucher. 
Ms P accepts the fee was applied for what she received, which would have been fine 
if shed received 2 months rather than 14 days notice. 
As neither party accepted our investigators view, its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered whether American Express acted fairly when closing Ms Ps account. A 
bank is entitled to close a credit card account just as a customer may close an account with 
a bank. But, before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way, which complies with the 
terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ps account state that American Express are entitled to give 
Ms P at least two months written notice if they terminate her account for any reason. And 
they may end the agreement immediately if Ms P is in default. Ive looked at the reasons 
provided my American Express in Part 2 of the user agreement for when a consumer can be 
considered in breach or default. And based on the evidence American Express have 
provided Im not satisfied theyve demonstrated any of these terms apply.  And I think 
American Express should have provided Ms P with the full two months notice period. 
Ive moved on to consider whether Ms P should be compensated for missing out on the 
opportunity to earn the companion flight voucher. And Im afraid Im in agreement with our 
investigator here. Its possible Ms P could have earnt enough points to obtain the voucher if 
shed been given the 2 month notice period, however the terms and conditions of her 
account also state that taxes, fees and charges need to be paid when making the booking. 
And these need to be paid for by using the same type of American Express card. I think its 
unlikely, on balance, Ms P would have been able to accrue the spending required and use 
the voucher within the additional 6 weeks she should have been provided. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I dont think Ms P should be compensated for not being 
provided with the voucher. However, I do think Ms P was caused some inconvenience by the 
early closure of her account  and I think £100 is fair compensation for this. Ms P points out 
that she paid £63.05 in charges for her card  but on signing up for her American Express 
card she agreed to these fees. And considering these have been applied on a pro rata basis 
I cant say theyve acted unfairly here. 
Putting things right
I think Ms P should be compensated £100 for the inconvenience caused to her by American 
Express depriving her of the use of her credit card for 6 weeks. This meant she was unable 
to access her credit facility and was required to repay the full balance earlier than should 
have been the case.  
My final decision
My final decision is I direct American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to:
- Pay Ms P £100 for the distress and inconvenience causedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman