DRN-3109983
The complaint
Mr C complains about his broker, ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED (Atlanta). 
His complaint is about an administrative error when he took out a motor insurance policy 
which meant that he thought he wasnt covered, but Atlanta still pursued him for payments.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr C bought a car from a dealer and went online to take out motor insurance so 
he could drive the vehicle home. Mr C had some difficulty but was eventually able to take out 
a policy and received confirmation that his deposit had been taken. Later that evening, Mr C 
received a message to say that technical problems meant that there had been an error, and 
that he should contact his broker. Contacting Atlanta the following day, Mr C says he was 
told it appeared no money had been taken from him and that he wasnt insured. Mr C took 
out a new policy with another insurer. Mr C then received two emails from Atlanta saying that 
he was in fact insured through them, but theyd received details of a previous claim they said 
hadnt been disclosed. Consequently, they were charging an administration fee (£14.95) to 
be added to Mr Cs monthly direct debit payments.
Mr C then received a further letter cancelling his policy, Atlanta then called Mr C asking him 
to confirm cancellation of the policy (which would cost £84). Mr C received further letters 
saying that the policy had been arranged online on the date he bought his car, but that it had 
been cancelled (from June 2020). Mr C also found Atlanta had taken £36.04 as a deposit for 
the policy. Further letters were sent to Mr C asking for payment of the amount Atlanta said 
he owed them, also referring to the possibility of debt recovery action being taken.
Unhappy at this, Mr C complained to Atlanta. In their final response letter, they said they 
didnt have a record of the call where Mr C said he was told no money had been collected 
and he wasnt insured. Atlanta said the policy had been set up as they then confirmed to Mr 
C. Also, they had to update information on Mr Cs claims history to align with that recorded 
on the Claims Underwriting Exchange database, which led to the administration fee. As they 
hadnt received direct debit details from Mr C (to collect premiums) theyd cancelled the 
policy. Acknowledging a technical error when the policy was taken out may have led to delay 
in the policy being set up, Atlanta partly upheld Mr Cs complaint, reducing the cancellation 
fee to £29.95, leaving an amount of £58.36 owing. Atlanta said that if Mr C could provide 
proof of having taken out alternative cover, they would contact the underwriter of the policy 
with them, with a view to securing a refund of cover for the period up to the cancellation.
Mr C then complained to this service, unhappy at how Atlanta had handled the issue and 
their complaint. He wanted Atlanta to refund the deposit hed paid and to stop pursuing him 
for what Atlanta said he owed them. Mr C also wanted compensation for the stress that the 
experience had caused him.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Atlanta hadnt acted fairly. The 
investigator thought Mr C had made the call in which he was told that the policy hadnt been 
set up and that Mr C had taken out a policy with another insurer. Given this, the investigator 
didnt think it fair that Mr C should be charged any fees by Atlanta and said that Atlanta 
should fully cancel the policy and waive any associated fees. But the investigator didnt think 
Mr C should receive any additional compensation and that, had he provided details of his 
new policy to Atlanta as they requested, his complaint would have been resolved sooner.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view, saying that Atlanta should refund the deposit that 
they had taken in respect of the policy. Mr C also felt that the time, trouble and stress from 
the incident meant that he should receive compensation. Further discussion between our 
investigator, Mr C and Atlanta led to Mr C providing details of his alternative cover. Based on 
this, Atlanta decided to treat their policy as not taken up, meaning that all costs and fees 
associated with the policy were cancelled. They also refunded the deposit paid by Mr C and 
offered him £50 in compensation. Our investigator considered what Atlanta had done to put 
things right and concluded that they had acted fairly.
 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He didnt feel £50 compensation was enough in the circumstances. He was also 
unhappy that Atlanta had denied taking a deposit (when they had) and that they didnt need 
to be provided with proof that Mr C had taken out alternative cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My role here is to decide whether Atlanta have acted fairly towards Mr C.
In looking at Mr Cs complaint, Ive considered the position that has been reached, from his 
complaint to Atlanta and their response and his complaint to this service and the views of our 
investigators. This has taken time, so I appreciate Mr Cs frustration. When Mr C complained 
to this service, his key concerns were, firstly, that Atlanta refund the deposit theyd taken 
from him. Secondly, that they should stop pursuing him for the fees associated with the 
policy and its cancellation. Thirdly, that Atlanta should pay compensation for the time, trouble 
and stress caused.
 
In respect of the first and second issues, Ive noted that Atlanta have now refunded Mr Cs 
deposit and cancelled all the fees that they had said were owed by Mr C. So, both these 
issues have been resolved, as Mr C requested. I think thats affair and reasonable outcome. 
I appreciate Mr Cs view that this should have happened much sooner. Atlanta have said 
that had Mr C provided details of the alternative cover taken out when he thought his policy 
with them hadnt been set up, this would have enabled these issues to be resolved sooner
. 
Ive considered both views carefully, together with Mr Cs view that he shouldnt have 
needed to provide proof of his alternative cover to Atlanta. While I can understand why Mr C 
feels that this isnt Atlantas concern, I dont think it was unreasonable for Atlanta to make 
the request. which Ive noted was made in their final response letter. Having evidence that 
Mr C had taken out another policy would have indicated that Mr C acted in the way he said, 
thinking that he wasnt insured through them. This would have expedited the cancellation of 
the premium and fees incurred in respect of the policy with Atlanta.
 
The third element of Mr Cs complaint is about the level of compensation for what happened. 
While Atlanta said they didnt have a record of the call made to them by Mr C, in which he 
says he was told that no payment had been taken and no policy taken out, Im persuaded 
that it is likely to have taken place. Given the message the previous evening to call his 
broker because of the technical issue, together with Mr C then taking out alternative cover 
with another insurer, I think these points support Mr Cs view of events. So, I think Mr C 
acted reasonably given the information he had. While Atlanta point to subsequent 
communication later the same day, telling Mr C he did have a policy with them, at that point he had already taken out an alternative policy. So, I think its reasonable to conclude that 
Atlantas [technical] error and subsequent initial indication that he wasnt covered led to the 
issues. Atlanta have acknowledged these issues in their compensation offer of £50. Mr C 
has rejected this sum, asking for £200.
Ive thought carefully about the level of compensation, given the circumstances of the case, 
Ive also considered what Mr C has told us about the impact that it has had on him. I think 
£100 would be appropriate for distress and inconvenience. This also reflects the points 
above, particularly my conclusion that it was Atlantas error that caused the situation, but 
also that I think the issue could have been resolved sooner had Mr C provided details of his 
alternative cover to Atlanta. 
Putting things right
  
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to partially uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
I require ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED to:
Pay Mr C £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman