DRN-2962477
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the amount esure Insurance Limited paid for his car in settlement of
his car insurance policy claim.
What happened
Mr H was involved in an accident and contacted esure to make a claim on his motor
insurance policy. esure deemed the vehicle a total loss and said they would settle the claim
by paying the cars market value less the policy excess. And they valued it at £4,143.
Mr H says esure undervalued his car by only considering two valuation guides instead of
four to reach their settlement figure. He says his car was an appreciating classic car and he
also thinks esure hasnt taken into account the extra features that come as standard, as his
car was the sports version. esure said their engineer consulted four valuation guides, but
one guide didnt give a valuation and they discounted a fourth guide. They also said due to
the age of Mr Hs car, the additional extras fitted by the manufacturer made no difference to
its value.
Our investigator concluded that esures settlement offer was fair, but Mr H disagreed. In
addition to the points hed made, Mr H says he paid £6,500 when he bought his car and
esure paid 60% of what he had paid and what he thinks the car is worth. As an agreement
wasnt reached, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 July 2021 where I said:
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We 
look at whether the insurer has applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued the 
vehicle fairly. Under the terms of Mr Hs policy, esure must pay him the market value of the 
car, less his excess.
In the policy, market value is defined as:
 the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open market
immediately before your accident or loss.
Mr H says its not possible to find a similar car for less than £7,000. Working out the market
value of a car isnt an exact science, and its standard practice for the industry to use
valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. The valuation the guides
give are based on national research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age
and mileage for sale at the time of loss. We usually find theyre more reliable than individual
adverts, which can vary vastly in price and can be misleading as often, vehicles dont sell at
the advertised price once negotiations take place. That said, adverts have their benefits and
are a good indication of whether the figures produced by the guides are reasonable.
To determine the market value of Mr Hs car, esure relied on valuations from two guides.
They provided evidence of their valuation searches, which show the details of Mr Hs vehicle
and describe it as the sports model. Features that come as standard with this model should
be reflected in the guide values, as all the cars of the same model would have had similar
features.
At times, a vehicle may have optional extras added to it which increase its worth, but often
we find these features dont add as much value as one might think and can also reduce in
value over time. From their searches, Im satisfied esure did include the optional extra
features added by the manufacturer, but the guides showed they didnt increase its value.
The guides esure relied on, CAP and Glass, valued the car at £3,416 and £4,870,
respectively. esure also obtained a valuation from another guide, Cazana, but have excluded
it from their calculations because they said it produced a value that was out of line with CAP
and Glass. Ive thought about their approach, and usually I would think its a fair way to look
at things, but Im not convinced in Mr Hs specific circumstances, its resulted in a fair and
reasonable valuation of his car. Ill explain why.
Occasionally, weve found where a vehicle is rare or a limited edition the guides arent able
to make a valuation or may not produce a value we think is fair. Ive looked at adverts for
similar cars, and Ive found very few of the same specification. Specifically, there were few
cars with the same engine size as Mr Hs car, which was a rare three litre model. The cars
advertised were mostly a year or more older than Mr Hs car, and had a smaller, more
commonly available, two litre engine. But all the adverts Ive seen priced similar cars a
significant amount higher than esures valuation. So, Im not satisfied their valuation of
£4,143 is fair.
Ultimately, esure need to pay Mr H the cost of replacing his car with a similar one, and Im
not persuaded he would be able to replace his car for the amount they paid him. I obtained a
valuation from Cazana, and it produced a market value of £6,487 and I find the advertised
prices Ive seen were closer to this figure. So, in Mr Hs case, I think a fair valuation for his
car would be in line with Cazanas valuation.
For the reasons mentioned, I intend to tell esure to increase their valuation to £6,487 and
pay Mr H the difference between what they already paid him and this figure. They should
also pay Mr H 8% simple interest per year on the difference, from the date their initial
settlement was paid until they pay him the difference.
Mr H provided adverts which he says reflects his cars current market value. Esure also didnt 
accept my decision and said: 
The advertised prices are not a clear indication of market value. It is a seasonal 
vehicle and its likely advertised prices will increase in the summer months but 
decrease during the winter. And the incident took place in the middle of winter when 
prices would be at their lowest.
Mr Hs car had eight previous owners and their engineer feels that would also have a 
bearing on its market value. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr H and esures responses, and Im not persuaded to change my mind. 
As well as considering whether esure acted in line with the terms and conditions, the role of 
this service is to also consider whether they treated Mr H fairly. In the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im not satisfied esures valuation was fair. 
esure says Mr Hs car is a seasonal vehicle and so its market value would have been less at 
the time of the incident, but Im not persuaded seasonal fluctuations would greatly impact the 
price Mr Hs car would have sold for.
Mr Hs car was around 17 years old at the time of the incident, as such its what Id consider 
an older car, so I think its understandable that its had several owners. And Im not 
convinced the number of owners a similar car of that age has had would significantly impact 
the its value. 
Mr H provided adverts for similar cars, but I find cars dont usually sell for the price 
advertised once negotiations take place. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, I think 
adverts can be a good indication of whether the prices produced by the guides are 
reasonable. The adverts Ive seen valued his car a significant amount higher than esures 
valuation. Ultimately esure need to pay the cost of replacing Mr Hs car, and Im not 
persuaded he would be able to for the price they suggested. 
Putting things right
I find the valuation produced by Cazana is fair and closer to the advertised prices Ive seen. 
So, I think esure should increase their valuation to £6,487 and pay Mr H the difference 
between what they already paid him and this figure. They should also pay 8% simple interest 
per year on the difference, from the date their initial settlement was paid until they pay him 
the difference.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to 
increase their valuation to £6,487 and pay Mr H the difference of £2,344. They should pay 
this to him directly. They should also pay Mr H 8% simple interest per year on this amount 
from the date they first paid him, until the increased payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman