DRN-3170927
The complaint
O complains about the administration of its business interruption insurance claim by 
Society of Lloyds. 
What happened
O held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by Society of Lloyds. For ease, 
whenever I refer to Society of Lloyds or Lloyds this will include anything done by the 
underwriters and its agents. Additionally, whilst much of Os correspondence involved a 
separate third party, I have just referred to O here for the sake of simplicity.
In March 2020, O made a claim on this policy as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic causing 
it to close its premises. Lloyds advised O that it was experiencing some delays, but that a 
claims handler would be dealing with the case within 5 to 7 days. A claims handler then 
requested clarification on the information O had provided, and this was promptly given. O 
has said it was then repeatedly told it could expect a decision within the next day, but this did 
not materialise. Lloyds then promised, on 16 April 2020, that a response would be 
forthcoming the following day, but when this was not received O complained. 
Lloyds agreed that it could have handled the claim better, and offered O £100 compensation 
for the time taken and lack of communication. O was unhappy at this offer and brought its 
complaint to this service. Our Investigator thought that £100 was not sufficient, and 
recommended Lloyds increase the compensation to £200. Lloyds disagreed and this 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I should note at this point that O has raised a further complaint in relation to the outcome of 
its claim. But that will be dealt with separately and does not form part of my considerations 
here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator that an award of £200 is a better reflection of 
the inconvenience caused to O. 
I do have some sympathy with Lloyds. Os claim was made at a time when a high volume of 
claims were being made. And this would no doubt have stretched the resources of Lloyds 
and its agents. I also note that, having instructed a third party claims handler, Lloyds was 
reliant on that third party to an extent. 
However, the use of this third party was a decision Lloyds took. And ultimately it is Lloyds 
that is responsible for providing an appropriate service to its customers  including O. 
In this instance it is agreed that there were avoidable delays in terms of the claim handling 
and that there were issues with the communications provided to O. As such, the only real 
consideration is what the appropriate level of compensation is in this situation. 
O has suggested that compensation of £1,000 would be fair. I disagree with this. I note O 
has referred to the hours it spent in relation to this matter, but much of this would be a 
consequence of having to make the claim in the first place  and some inconvenience is 
doing so is unavoidable. I am also unable to award compensation for any distress that the 
directors of O may have experienced. The claimant and complainant in this situation is O  a 
limited company, and as such a legal entity in its own right. Whilst I do not doubt this would 
have been a stressful time for its directors, they as individuals are not the complainant in this 
matter. So, their own distress is not something I can take into account.
However, as a result of the issues with communication in particular, I do not consider £100 
to be fair compensation for O. At a time of great uncertainty for many businesses generally, 
the avoidable issues with Lloyds handling of the claim increased this. O had to chase for a 
response on multiple occasions and Lloyds, and its agent, did not do what they said they 
would. So, I consider that a higher level of compensation is warranted. 
Putting things right
If it has not already done so, Society of Lloyds should pay O £200 in total compensation for 
the issues experienced with the handling of its claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Society of Lloyds should put things right in 
the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman