DRN-3751980
The complaint
Mrs K complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), who refused to pay for damage 
following a leak at her home, under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs K had a leak at her home and contacted Aviva to make a claim. The advisor told Mrs K 
to isolate the leak to prevent further damage to her home. And told her that an engineer 
would attend. 
Despite Mrs K receiving two texts that told her that the engineer would be attending, he did 
not attend. So, Mrs K contacted Aviva to report this. It sent a further engineer. But while Mrs 
K was waiting for that engineer to attend, she decided to turn the water back on. This 
resulted in further damage happening to her home. Mrs K estimates that the damage would 
cost around £2,000 to repair. So, she made a complaint to Aviva. 
In its final response, Aviva wouldnt accept any liability for the further damage caused to Mrs 
K, as it said that she had turned on the water, when it had told Mrs K not to. Aviva also 
offered Mrs K £50 for the trouble and upset caused, due to its engineer not attending when 
he said he would. 
Mrs K was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. His view was that 
Mrs K had turned the water on at variance with the advice that Aviva had given. So, Aviva 
couldnt be responsible for the damage caused to her property. He also said that the £50 
offered was fair. 
Aviva accepted the view Mrs K did not. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mrs K, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs K held a home emergency policy with Aviva. She found a leak in her home and 
contacted Aviva to make a claim. She was told by the advisor to switch off the water, so as 
to prevent further damage to her property. 
Im pleased to see that Mrs K followed Avivas advice and switched off the water. She was 
told that an engineer would attend and was given a date for the engineers attendance. Aviva 
accepted that the engineer didnt attend on the day that it said they would. 
I note that Aviva has accepted this error and has offered Mrs K £50 compensation for the 
trouble this caused. But Mrs K hasnt provided me with any evidence to show that Aviva 
advised her to switch the water back on. So, from this, I think Mrs K decided to switch on the 
water which was contrary to Avivas advice. 
By Mrs K choosing to switch on the water, I think she took the risk of damage being caused. 
And this is exactly what happened. Consequently, I dont think it would be reasonable or fair 
for me to say that Aviva caused the additional damage to Mrs Ks property, due to the 
engineer not attending on that day.
Given that Aviva has offered £50 for the trouble and upset caused due to the delayed 
engineers attendance, I think that this offer is fair, and Aviva has recognised the impact of 
this error on Mrs K. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mrs K is, Im not 
satisfied that Aviva is responsible for the damage caused to her property. And I think that 
Aviva has dealt with Mrs Ks complaint fairly. So, I cant ask Aviva to reasonably do anything 
more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I think the compensation of £50 which Aviva Insurance Limited has 
offered, for the trouble and upset it caused, is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman