DRN-4453333
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyds) settlement 
of their claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D made a claim under the policy they held with Lloyds, as their kitchen worktop 
was damaged. Lloyds sent an assessor to assess the damage. Ultimately, Lloyds accepted 
the claim but as its supplier was unable to repair the worktop within a time suitable for Mr 
and Mrs D, they asked Lloyds for a cash settlement. 
Lloyds initially offered £1,850.52, less excess. This was then increased to £3,075.46. But 
then further increased to £3,495.20 less excess. Mr and Mrs D obtained three quotes. One 
was for £6,496.25. This was rejected by Lloyds as it deemed it as betterment. The other two 
quotes were for £2,480 and £3,592. Mr and Mrs D accepted the cash settlement of 
£3,495.20, from Lloyds. 
However, they complained to Lloyds due to the poor handling of their claim. They also 
believed that Lloyds ought to increase the settlement offer, by a further £2,900, as this was 
the shortfall between what it cost Mr and Mrs D to repair the worktop and the cash 
settlement they originally accepted. 
In its final response, Lloyds acknowledged that there was poor service issues, due to Mr and 
Mrs D receiving several quotes and paid compensation of £300. It said that under the policy 
terms and conditions, it would only pay what it wouldve cost to carry out the repair by its 
suppliers. It said that the highest quote submitted by Mr and Mrs D, included items that it 
deemed were not a like-for-like replacement. And the policy didnt cover betterment. 
As Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy and had been given their referral rights, they referred a 
complaint to our service. They said that Lloyds hadnt been open or transparent about the 
costs it used. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Her 
view was that Lloyds had been fair to settle the claim, based on the policy terms and 
conditions. She also said that the compensation paid for the poor service, £300, was 
reasonable and in line with our services guidance on compensation. So, there was nothing 
further she could fairly ask Lloyds to do. 
Lloyds accepted the view, Mr and Mrs D did not. They said that our investigator had missed 
the point, the main issue was that Lloyds hadnt been transparent in its costs it used. It said 
when they had asked Lloyds for a breakdown of the costs, they were given redacted 
information. They said that the three quotes that they had obtained, two of them were 
estimations and not quotes. They said that the quote that was the highest wasnt betterment 
and was what it actually cost to repair the worktop. So, they asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs D, but I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, terms and conditions of the policy and the evidence 
both parties have provided. I think the main issue of this complaint is whether Lloyds were 
fair to settle the claim on the basis of the policy terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs D said that Lloyds were not clear or transparent as to the costs it used to 
determine the settlement it offered. They said that the cost of replacing the worktop was the 
true and accurate cost, as the other two lower quotes were not actual quotations and more 
an estimation. They also said that the lower quotes suppliers hadnt visited their home to 
carry out a quote. And one of the suppliers had confirmed in writing that they would be 
unable to carry out the work, for the amount that they had originally estimated. 
Ive carefully considered all Mr and Mrs Ds points that they have raised, and Ill address 
these in my findings. 
Mr and Mrs D believe that Lloyds were less than transparent in their costs, despite their 
requests for a breakdown. They felt that Lloyds couldnt use data protection as a reason why 
it had redacted information, from the breakdown it had sent to them. Especially as the data 
related to their claim. 
I agree that Lloyds sent a redacted breakdown to Mr and Mrs D. But I dont agree that it did 
anything wrong here, so Ill explain why. Our service doesnt have the power to tell Lloyds 
what information to redact. And Lloyds are entitled to remove commercially sensitive or 
breach of data information. Whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs D have said that the data 
relates to their claim and therefore is data on them, I dont think this is entirely correct, as 
this particular information would relate to other businesses and would mean that the 
information is commercially sensitive. And on this basis, I think Lloyds were fair to redact the 
information.
Lloyds said that under the policy terms, its obligation was to replace a like-for-like worktop to 
ensure that the policyholders were put back into the same position pre-loss. And it would 
only pay what it would cost them to repair the worktop. Ive reviewed the policy terms and it 
states: 
Where we use suppliers, we might get discounts. We will use their cost to us when settling 
claims. What we mean is, we wont pay more than it would cost us to repair, replace an item 
or rebuild any part of your home.   
Based on this, Lloyds made a settlement offer of £3,495.20, which is what it would have cost 
them to complete the repair. 
Mr and Mrs D provided a few quotations and the one that they chose to carry out the repair 
cost them £6,496.25. They said that this was the quote that provided them a like-for-like 
replacement and wasnt betterment. I reviewed the claim notes and in particular, what Mr and Mrs D reported when they made 
the claim. Mr D contacted Lloyds and told them that a candle had exploded on the worktop. 
He described the worktop as being a laminate kitchen worktop with a white pattern on it. 
Lloyds costings were for a replacement laminate worktop, which would be a like-for like 
repair. However, the supplier that Mr and Mrs D eventually instructed to replace the worktop, 
quoted for a stone worktop, which cost considerably more than a laminate worktop. 
Whilst it is correct, that Mr and Mrs D, are able to choose what product they use to carry out 
the repair, the policy terms only requires Lloyds to put the consumer back into the pre-loss 
condition. And not in a better position. By Mr and Mrs D choosing to have a stone worktop, 
rather than the laminate worktop that was the subject of the claim, Im satisfied that this 
meant the replacement wasnt a like-for-like and was betterment, which wasnt covered 
under the policy.
I understand that Mr and Mrs D said that one of the suppliers they contacted was now 
unable to carry out the work for the cost that it had quoted. But I note that the quote they 
gave was dated in April 2023. And Mr and Mrs D had gone back to the supplier in November 
2023. Generally, its usual practice that any quote is valid for around 30 days. So, I dont 
think its unusual that a quote that had originally been given in April 2023, would still be valid 
seven month later. 
Lloyds accepted that there were some poor service issues, namely the multiple occasions 
that a settlement offer was provided. It apologised for this error and offered and paid £300 
for the trouble and upset this caused. Ive reviewed this offer in line with our services 
guidelines on compensation, and I agree that it was right for Lloyds to recognise its error. I 
also think the amount of compensation paid, is in line with our guidelines, so I wont be 
asking Lloyds to increase this further. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ds strength of feeling about this complaint. But, in the overall 
circumstances, I havent seen enough evidence to show that Lloyds acted unfairly. Im 
therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman