DRN-2764083
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Parmenion Capital Partners LLPs processes and actions delayed the
transfer of her ISA from her previous provider, Aberdeen, and that this resulted in a
significant fall in its value  in 2020.
What happened
Mrs M received a pamphlet from Aberdeen saying she would no longer be able to use its
online services due to a centralisation exercise but that its sister business Parmenion could
facilitate this online access.
Mrs M admitted she was totally confused by the pamphlet and didnt know what Aberdeen
wanted her to do. She thought this was an instruction to transfer her ISA and that she didnt
have any choice given the following paragraph:
Transfer your account to Parmenion to maintain online trading. 'As a valued client who
currently utilises this service, we wanted to invite you to transfer your account to Parmenion
in order to maintain access to online trading and save money at the same time.
She said she felt backed into a corner and had no other option; having a deadline in place 
caused further worry. Believing she had no choice, she signed to agree to the transfer but 
there were several delays which caused her a loss.
An investigator at this service dealt separately with her complaints about both businesses.
This complaint solely concerns whether Parmenion did something wrong. In her view, this
complaint did not warrant being upheld. She said:
Parmenion advise that the request was received on 1 April at 11:30. The terms and 
conditions state: We will use reasonable endeavours to ensure withdrawal requests 
received before the close of business on a Working Day are actioned within 24 hours 
of an acceptable instruction being received, but do not guarantee that the timescales 
will always be typically be issued to you within 6-8 Working Days of your request 
being received.
Parmenion admits that the trades were intended to be placed on 2 April 2020, in line 
with their terms and conditions, but due to an oversight one of the trades wasnt 
placed until 3 April 2020
It reviewed the calculations and found that due to the delay there had been a gain of 
£15.27 to the value of the investment
She, the investigator, was satisfied that this calculation was correct, showing that the 
delay didnt cause any detriment to Mrs M. She also noted that the withdrawal was 
completed by 9 April 2020, within the timescales given in the terms and conditions
Mrs M said she wasnt aware of the details of the Parmenion investment and asked 
several times about this but hadnt received anything from it. However, Parmenion 
confirmed that as part of the online transfer process clients have to read a 
confirmation page which lists nine important points and they have to click to confirm 
they have read the My Investments Key Features Document and Client Terms
Given this, she was satisfied that Parmenion gave Mrs M access to all the 
information required and that the transfer couldnt have proceeded she had ticked the 
box in question
In fact, t was the timing of the withdrawal of the funds, at the start of the pandemic 
which impacted the value of Mrs Ms investment; not a mistake of Parmenions 
making
Mrs M and her daughter disagreed with the investigator, jointly saying:
Can you please show us where you have responded, to the numerous regulatory 
breaches, rules and points we raised, in our previous correspondence?
If Aberdeen and Parmenion had carried out due diligence, this situation would not 
have occurred. Remember, during this crash, through no fault of our own, we were 
not able to sell
The regulator requires businesses to act with Skill, care and diligence including due 
diligence testing of their systems to ensure they are capable of dealing with the 
transfers/merger, and no client will be disadvantaged
As this is a regulatory requirement, they would like a copy of the scripts, which would 
have been used by the Aberdeen and Parmenion project/testing teams, prior to the 
merger
They would also like to know what criteria was used for testing, e.g., name, address, 
national insurance number, email address, etc.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
Its firstly important to explain that my role is to decide if there is sufficient, persuasive
evidence to safely conclude that a business did something wrong; not merely whether it
might have done things differently.
In this context, I dont agree with Mrs Ms interpretation of Parmenions regulatory
responsibility when agreeing to accept transfers from Aberdeen. From what Ive read, it
offered a clear and transparent option to do this and adhered to its own terms and 
conditions. It wasnt required to offer the same service as Aberdeen, such as allowing
married couples to use the same email address; overall, it was fully entitled to set its own
terms and conditions.
I am also satisfied that Mrs M did not suffer a financial loss as a result of the very short delay
due to Parmenion, and that this delay did not result in it exceeding its declared timescale
commitments.
Finally, I should explain that my role, and that of this service, is to provide an informal
resolution service, assessing all the evidence and considering all the possible grounds forupholding a complaint. It is not, however, necessary for an investigator or ombudsman to
address every single point raised by a complainant or business, merely to explain the
grounds on which they have reached his or her overall decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman