DRN-2188332
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) overdraft charges have 
caused him financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr B says NatWest overdraft charges have caused him financial difficulties and pushed him 
into a cycle of debt. He says the charges are unfair and would like them refunded from 2012. 
He also says he has spoken to NatWest about the charges and overdraft, but it told him he 
was better off keeping the overdraft facility.
NatWest says the charges have been applied in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions. It says it has offered to help Mr B by giving him details of its specialist debt team 
and by offering to set up account alerts. NatWest says it doesnt give us permission to look 
at the charges applied over six years ago and says it has no record of Mr B telling it about 
financial difficulties in the last six years.
Mr B brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the charges were applied in line with account terms and conditions and following a 
Supreme Court decision didnt think they could be held to be unfair on the basis they were 
too high. The investigator explained the rules we operate under and didnt think there was 
evidence of Mr B telling NatWest about financial difficulties in the last six years.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says he has evidence of contact between him and 
NatWest about the overdraft and the charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that NatWest has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed by my 
decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr B would have agreed to 
when the account was first opened. And I think those terms and conditions say that in certain 
circumstances overdraft and account charges will be made. I think that is what took place 
here when Mr B, for example, exceeded his overdraft limit. And so, I dont think NatWest 
made a mistake or acted unfairly by applying account charges. I find they were applied in 
line with those account terms and conditions.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically but that doesnt mean any overdraft charges ought to be simply refunded. 
The investigator has explained that under the rules we operate under, we can only consider 
a complaint about events going back six years before a complaint is brought. I appreciate Mr 
B hasnt disputed that or told us he disagrees with that. The relevance of that is that I have 
looked at NatWests records and I cant see any contact between the parties in that six- year 
period about these issues. So, in those circumstances I dont think NatWest could have 
offered any help to Mr B. I also think that since Mr B brought this complaint NatWest has 
tried to help Mr B by refunding charges as a gesture of goodwill and providing him with 
details of its specialist team.
The investigator has also explained that following a Supreme Court decision in 2009 it was 
held that bank charges cant be challenged on the grounds they are too high and so unfair.
Overall, Im satisfied that NatWest hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly and so I cant 
order it to refund any charges which I think were correctly applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman