DRN-1670623
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy about the fee Abacus Management Limited is charging for a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
Late May 2019 Abacus sent Mr C a "Demand for Payment" for a successful PPI claim they 
said they'd made for him. The fee charged was 39% plus VAT of the compensation award 
made to Mr C by his lender  who I'll call "S".
Mr C said the letter of authority (LoA) for Abacus to act on his behalf in submitting a claim for 
PPI was signed in May 2018. But said on contacting lender "S" the PPI claim wasn't 
submitted until November 2018. And in authorising Abacus to act on his behalf he'd never 
agreed to a fee of 39% plus VAT.
Mr C said he has tried to contact Abacus to find out the cause of the delay in his claim being 
submitted, and about the fee being charged. Mr C said he'd tried a variety of ways, email 
and phone but without success. So, as the claim was submitted after July 2018 when a fee 
cap of 20% plus VAT was introduced, he'd paid the fee cap amount of £121.54 to settle 
Abacus' charge.
Mr C hasn't had any response form Abacus so has referred his complaint to us.
Abacus haven't responded to our investigator's requests for information. But she said as the 
LoA was signed prior to claims management companies having to advise customers about 
the fee cap, a higher fee could be charged. But for the poor service Abacus had given they 
needed to pay Mr C £100 for trouble and upset.
Abacus haven't responded so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in February 2020 which said:
The Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management 
Regulator to introduce a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force on 10 July 
2018. From this date, claims management companies couldnt legally charge a success fee 
of more than 20% plus VAT. But the fee cap wasnt retrospective - so doesnt apply to 
agreements entered into before this date. 
I can see that the LoA was signed by Mr C in May 2018, before the fee cap was introduced. 
But Abacus haven't provided any evidence to show what Mr C had agreed to when he 
authorised them to act on his behalf. The LoA Mr C has sent to us only says:
"whose fees will be recoverable from me"The LoA doesn't detail what the percentage fee would be or any examples of what the 
monetary value of the fee would be, and what payment its client would get.
The agreement Mr C had with Abacus was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
Abacus charged a percentage success fee. The claim was successful. But as I don't know 
what fee Mr C had agreed to I think it is fair and reasonable to apply the fee cap of 20% plus 
VAT. 
The invoice Mr C said was sent from Abacus shows a compensation award of £548.10 
which would mean £131.54 was payable for 20% plus VAT. Mr C has already paid Abacus 
£121.54.
From what I've seen this has been a very frustrating experience for Mr C. And Abacus in 
failing to respond to Mr C has provided a poor service. So I agree with our investigator that 
Abacus should pay him compensation for this. And the £100 for trouble and upset I think is 
fair and reasonable.
I think Mr C owes a balance of £10 for the 20% plus VAT fee. So, I'd require Abacus to pay 
him the difference between what he owes and the trouble and upset award, £90
responses to my provisional findings
Mr C said he wanted an end to the worry and concern. And that he felt threatened by 
ongoing court action. He also said he'd never received a receipt or acknowledgement for the 
payment he'd made.
Abacus didn't agree with my provisional decision. They said the LoA was signed by Mr C in 
May 2018, before the fee cap was introduced. So the fee they were charging, 39% plus VAT 
was justified. But they agreed to waive any further payment towards their fee that they said 
Mr C owed. And they'd cancelled the court proceedings. 
Abacus didn't think they should pay for trouble and upset as the above was sufficient to 
resolve the complaint. And they'd kept in touch with Mr C to keep him updated.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. But I've not been persuaded to change 
my decision - for the reasons given below.
The LoA sent by Abacus is signed by Mr C and dated 8 May 2018, before the introduction of 
the fee cap. This came into force in July 2018 and wasn't to be applied retrospectively. But I 
still haven't seen any evidence of Abacus' fee of 39% plus VAT. As I said in my provisional 
decision, the LoA only says:
"whose fees will be recoverable from me"
But it doesn't give a percentage figure for what those fees will be or any monetary examples 
of what the customer would get. So,while I can see Mr C did authorise Abacus to act on his 
behalf to pursue his PPI claim. I can't see what fee Mr C agreed to pay Abacus for this.
So I'm satisfied that applying the fee cap of 20% plus VAT is fair and reasonable.
Abacus has said that they'd  kept in touch with Mr C, so didn't agree with my decision to 
award £100 for trouble and upset. But I'm more persuaded by Mr C's testimony about the impact there has been on him. Mr C has said he tried to settle with Abacus by making a 
payment in line with the fee cap to them. He said he hadn't received a receipt as 
confirmation for this payment. But had been sent notification of court proceedings. He also 
said he'd had difficulty with Abacus responding to his concerns. And I think this would have 
been very worrying for him.
 Putting things right
Mr C has already paid Abacus £121.54, and they've said they've waived any further fees. 
So, Mr C doesn't owe them anything more for their fee.
Abacus has since cancelled the court proceedings. But I think the worry about this would 
have caused Mr C considerable upset,  especially as he said he had problems getting in 
touch with Abacus. An issue that our investigator also experienced.
So, I think Abacus should compensate Mr C, £100 for the trouble and upset this has caused 
him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and ask Abacus Management Limited to pay £100 for trouble and 
upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman