DRN-4104428
The complaint
Mr F complains Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited, trading as My Community Bank (MCB), 
did not treat him fairly after he applied for additional borrowing.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in this matter because I thought MCB needed to take action to 
put things right for Mr F. I said: 
In March 2021 Mr F took out a loan (Loan 1) with MCB for £2,000. It was to be 
repaid at about £87 a month, over 36 months. The total amount payable was about 
£3,200. Mr F has some concerns with Loan 1. For example, he considers he was 
charged interest on an arrangement fee of £0, and the repayments are less than the 
total amount payable.
I have considered Mr Fs concerns and dont find any errors with the loan. There is 
no interest payable on the arrangement fee because the arrangement fee is £0. Mr F 
has similar concerns about some other loan related paperwork, which I will come on 
to. I dont find any errors there either, for broadly the same reasons as with Loan 1.
In July 2021 Mr F approached MCB for a further loan. Mr F says he wanted to borrow 
an additional £2,500. After speaking to Mr F on the phone, MCB says it thought he 
wanted to borrow £2,500 in total. Instead, a separate loan (Loan 2) for £2,500 was 
issued, to be repaid at about £85 a month, over 48 months. At this point, the total 
amount payable was about £4,150. MCB says it intended to use about £1,900 of 
Loan 2 to repay Loan 1, and pass the remainder to Mr F. Instead, it mistakenly 
passed him the full £2,500. This meant Loan 1 wasnt repaid, and so Mr F had the 
two loans running concurrently. The total amount repayable across the two loans at 
this stage was about £7,350.
MCB recognised it made a mistake and then attempted to contact Mr F. Mr F 
acknowledges this but says he didnt know why MCB wanted to speak to him, so he 
didnt make contact. In August 2021, MCB tried to take two direct debits from Mr Fs 
account. The payment for Loan 1 failed. Mr F thought there had been a mistake and 
it was at this point that he contacted MCB.
Looking at all of this in the round, I think both parties could have done more to avoid 
the situation as it now stands. MCB should have made more substantive attempts to 
contact Mr F to resolve matters in July 2021 when it realised there had been a 
mistake. And looking at this objectively, I dont think it would have been unreasonable 
for Mr F to have responded when MCB tried to contact him.
I accept what Mr F said about MCB giving him a lot of confusing information on the 
phone. And I can see why Mr F may not have paid too much attention to the detail of 
the agreements. But if he had looked more closely, I think he would have seen 
something was amiss with the agreements and the transferred funds. I say this 
because by the time hed applied for Loan 2, Mr F had just under £2,000 still 
outstanding on Loan 1. He then signed an agreement to borrow £2,500 on Loan 2 
and received £2,500 into his bank account. If Mr F thought there was only one 
agreement in place, that means he would have paid £85 a month over 48 months. In 
adding that up, it would have meant him paying back £4,150 in repayments  which 
was less than the total hed borrowed.
After August 2021, there was some contact between Mr F and MCB but no 
agreement was reached. In October 2021 MCB offered a way forward. It offered to 
combine both loans into a new loan (Loan 3), at a better interest rate, over a longer 
term. And it offered to waive some interest. The loan would have been for £4,400, to 
be repaid at about £105 a month, over 60 months. The total amount repayable would 
have been about £6,300. Mr F declined this offer as he thought hed have been 
worse off and has said, broadly, it didnt put things right as he wouldnt have taken 
out a loan this big had he known the consequences  higher cost of borrowing and 
longer term. I know Mr F was very concerned that this offer would have made him 
worse off. But looking at the total amount payable, I think MCBs offer would have 
worked out cheaper at that time.
Looking at what should have happened back in July 2021, I cant know for certain 
what Mr F would have done if MCB had offered him a loan on those terms. But on 
balance, I think its likely he would have taken out a loan for £4,400 in July 2021 if 
things had gone as he says they should have. I say this for the following reasons:
- Mr F wanted to borrow an additional £2,500 in July 2021. With his existing 
loan, this meant he needed to borrow £4,400 from MCB in total. And thats 
what hes now got, albeit not in the way initially intended.
- Mr F wanted further borrowing, for a specific purpose, which suggests he 
needed it.
- The interest rates set out the agreements for Loan 1 and Loan 2 were high, 
and Mr F accepted them. This suggests he may not have had access to 
other, cheaper credit elsewhere. And if interest rates (and borrowing costs) 
were important to Mr F  as appears to be the case from what hes said 
during this complaint  a July 2021 loan for £4,400 would have had a much 
more competitive interest rate, and a lower cost of borrowing (as Loan 3 
would have).
- The repayments on Loan 1 and Loan 2 were about £87/85 a month. A July 
2021 loan for £4,400 would have had repayments of about £105 a month (as 
Loan 3 would have). I appreciate this would have been an increased 
payment, but not a huge one. I acknowledge the term of 60-months offered in 
October 2021 is longer than Loans 1 and 2, but I find that would have been 
appropriate in increasing affordability and was offset by the better interest 
rate.
Im satisfied MCBs offer in October 2021 would  alongside the waiving of some 
interest on Loan 1  have put Mr F as close as practically possible to the position he 
should have been in. He didnt accept it at the time and things have moved on. Mr F 
has been making payments to Loan 2, but not Loan 1, so MCB says Loan 1 is in 
significant arrears and Mr Fs credit file has been impacted. And MCB has withdrawn 
its October 2021 offer. It also now considers Loan 1 to be in a default position.
Given I find MCBs October 2021 offer was a fair and appropriate one, that Mr F 
shouldnt be penalised for complaining, and that there is a broader need to bring this 
matter to a fair and reasonable resolution, I intend to require MCB to follow through 
on its October 2021 offer, with some slight changes. I intend to require it do as 
follows:
1. Had the one loan for £4,400 been issued, Mr F would have been paying 
interest on his borrowing based on the July 2021 rate on a loan for £4,400, over 60 months. MCB should rework the outstanding balances on Loans 1 
and 2 based on what this interest rate would have been;
2. MCB should combine the reworked outstanding balances from (1) into a 
new loan over a 60-month term. The interest rate should be the July 2021 
rate as established in (1); and
3. When (2) has been completed Loan 1 should be closed and reported to the 
credit reference agencies as settled in July 2021. Any adverse information 
from July 2021 onwards should be removed. A default must not be reported in 
respect of Loan 1. Loan 2 should be closed and reported as settled from the 
date it is settled.
Mr F has some significant and ongoing health concerns and has kindly set out to our 
service the impact this matter has had on him. In addition to the initial mistake and 
that this matter has been on his mind for quite some time, Mr F has explained hes 
been further impacted by what he considers to be MCBs dishonest and, at times, 
intimidating behaviour. Im sorry to hear about Mr Fs experience. It is not in doubt 
that pursuing his complaint has been difficult and stressful for Mr F. However, I must 
approach this matter objectively.
Overall, I find MCB made a mistake. But it ought to have been a relatively minor one. 
And when the quick fix  Mr F returning the excess money  couldnt be done, MCB 
offered a repayment plan. It then offered to a new loan which Im satisfied, for the 
reasons set out above, was a fair and appropriate resolution to this matter. And while 
this complaint has been ongoing MCB hasnt actively pursued Mr F for repayment 
despite repayments on Loan 1 stopping in or around August 2021. And I havent 
seen anything which persuades me MCB acted in bad faith, or attempted to 
intimidate Mr F. Nor have I found its customer service has been unsatisfactory more 
generally. In those circumstances, my provisional view is that I cant fairly and 
reasonably require MCB to pay Mr F compensation.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I issued a final decision. 
MCB indicated that it agreed with my provisional decision. 
Mr F provided a full response. By way of a very brief summary, he said he agreed with what I 
said about reporting to credit reference agencies. However, Mr F reiterated his view that he 
wouldnt have proceeded with the borrowing even if things had gone as they should have 
back in July 2021. He did not agree with what I said about the customer service he had 
received from MCB. He reiterated his belief that there were discrepancies and inaccuracies 
with the figures used by MCB in its calculations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, I have given careful thought to the detailed comments provided by Mr F. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. So, Ive upheld 
the complaint to the same extent and for essentially the same reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
I know Mr F feels strongly that MCB treated him very badly and he felt intimidated. I can also 
see that he feels strongly that he wouldnt have taken the extra borrowing out if things had 
gone as they should have done back in July 2021. I want to make clear that I accept that 
what Mr F told us is how he honestly feels about these things. But I have to look at things objectively and I have to apply the balance of probabilities. What 
that means is that I have to look at what would have most likely happened based on all the 
evidence thats before me. I can see that Mr F told us that due to his difficult personal 
circumstances at the time, he wasnt in a position to search for alternative credit.  I know Mr 
F disagrees but looking at this objectively and for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I think its most likely that he would have taken the credit out.   
Ive thought carefully about the points Mr F made about customer service. He made specific 
reference to the notice of default MCB sent to him whilst the complaint was being considered 
by this service, which made him feel threatened and intimidated. It wasnt helpful for MCB to 
send this notice out when it knew I was considering the complaint. But it quickly agreed to 
take no further action after being contacted by our investigator. I know Mr F found this letter 
to be very upsetting. But again, I must be objective. I cant say MCB set out to deliberately 
frighten Mr F when it sent this correspondence. And for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I cant objectively say MCB acted in bad faith in its dealings with Mr F. 
I know Mr F felt there were discrepancies with MCBs calculations. Again, I know Mr F felt 
strongly about this part of his complaint, but I didnt have concerns about how MCB had 
calculated things generally. More specifically, Mr F said he thought there was a difference of 
£66.13 in what he was expected to pay back. But I think this would be accounted for by the 
final contractual repayment, which wasnt intended to be the same as the usual monthly 
repayments. 
Mr F expressed concern that MCB would not take account of the four payments he had 
already made for Loan 1 when it calculated Loan 3. I have amended the compensation set 
out below to make clear that MCB will need to take account of this. 
Putting things right
I require MCB to put things right for Mr F as I have set out below: 
1. Had the one loan for £4,400 been issued, Mr F would have been paying interest on 
his borrowing based on the July 2021 rate on a loan for £4,400, over 60 months. 
MCB should rework the outstanding balances on Loans 1 and 2 based on what this 
interest rate would have been. In doing so, it must make sure it takes account of the 
repayments Mr F has already made in respect of Loan 1 and Loan 2;
2. MCB should combine the reworked outstanding balances from (1) into a new loan 
over a 60-month term. The interest rate should be the July 2021 rate as established 
in (1); and
3. When (2) has been completed Loan 1 should be closed and reported to the credit 
reference agencies as settled in July 2021. Any adverse information from July 2021 
onwards should be removed. A default must not be reported in respect of Loan 1. 
Loan 2 should be closed and reported as settled from the date it is settled.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint about Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited, trading as My Community 
Bank and require it to put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman