DRN-4329689
The complaint
Mr R is complaining that Carrot Risk Technologies Ltd (Carrot) cancelled his car insurance 
policy on two separate occasions.  
What happened
In May 2022 Mr R took out a car insurance policy through Carrot  a broker. The insurance 
provider required him to pay an annual premium and Mr R needed to pay this at the start of 
the policy. However, Mr R chose to pay for the policy through monthly instalments. To 
enable him to do so, he took out a finance agreement with a third-party finance provider  
who I shall refer to as G. G paid the annual premium on Mr Rs behalf and Mr R agreed in 
return to repay this in line with the terms of the finance agreement.
Mr R is unhappy that Carrot cancelled his insurance policy on two occasions because he 
was in arrears on his finance agreement. But he said it this only happened because G didnt 
take the direct debit payments in June and July 2022. He says this caused him to suffer a 
financial loss and also some distress and inconvenience. Carrot paid Mr R £150 in 
compensation and has said that G paid a further £250 in compensation  i.e. it set out Mr R 
has received £400 in total. 
I issued a provisional decision saying I thought Mr R had already been offered fair 
compensation and I said the following:
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr Rs complaint in a lot less detail 
than he has presented it. Mr R has raised a number of reasons about why hes unhappy with 
the way Carrot and G have handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every point 
hes raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to think 
about. I dont mean any discourtesy by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this 
service. I assure Mr R, however, that I have read and considered everything hes provided.
I need to set out that, in this decision, I can only consider Carrots action. Carrot acted as an 
insurance broker in this matter. Its primary responsibility was to arrange and administer the 
contract of insurance. Mr R also entered into a separate contract with G to finance the 
annual premium. It was Gs responsibility  as the finance provider  to consider Mr Rs 
ability to keep up with his monthly finance payments. It was also Gs responsibility to assist 
Mr R if he came into financial difficulties and couldnt keep up with his monthly payments. 
I can see that a number of things have gone wrong in the way Mr Rs payments were 
collected. But, as I said, I can only consider Carrots actions in this decision. It appears that 
G was responsible for collecting the payments  not Carrot. I can also see that it seems to 
have been Gs actions that led Carrot to cancel Mr Rs insurance policy. And I cant hold 
Carrot responsible for anything G did or did not do.
I acknowledge that Carrot cancelled Mr Rs policy. But, regardless of the reason why the 
payments werent taken, Mr R did owe this money, so I cant say it was unreasonable for 
Carrot to say he owed this. It seems likely to me that Carrot cancelled the policy because G 
informed it of the accounts arrears. But I can see that Carrot wrote to Mr R through its online 
portal giving him notice of the impending cancellation. Its also showed that Mr R opened the 
document at the same time, so I think he was aware the policy was going to cancel. But 
irrespective of this, Im not persuaded I can hold Carrot responsible for the policy being 
cancelled or any losses hes incurred as a result of the cancellation.
I acknowledge that Mr R has experienced a lot of distress and inconvenience over the 
course of the insurance policy and finance agreement. But it seems to me that Mr Rs 
concerns primarily rest with regards to the actions of G. If Mr R is unhappy with anything G 
did or did not do, hell need to raise that with G directly.
I have seen evidence there was some delay in Carrot reinstating the policy the first time it 
was cancelled. But I think the £150 in compensation its offered is sufficient compensation 
for any avoidable distress and inconvenience its caused.
Mr R didnt agree with my provisional decision and raised the following points:
He said he wasnt looking to pay in monthly instalments, but he was given the option of 
paying the premium upfront or with monthly instalments with 0% interest. So he chose 
the monthly instalment option.
When he contacted G to query things, G directed him to Carrot. And he said he had 
difficulties contacted Carrot as it didnt have a telephone number.
He said, when the policy finished and all payments were made, Carrot again said hed 
missed payments in May and June. He said he was abroad at the time and had to spend 
money getting access to Carrots live chat to show hed made the payment. He said 
Carrot then told him hed missed payments in August and September. He said he 
demonstrated hed paid it, but it still insisted he owed £400. So he disputed it only ever 
asked for money he actually owed.
Carrot responded to say it didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points Mr R has raised, but it hasnt changed my decision. I dont dispute 
that Mr R has had a difficult time in this matter, but as I set out previously, I can only 
consider Carrots actions in this decision. I recognise Mr R says G directed him to Carrot, but 
I need to think about whats fundamentally gone wrong in this case and thats that Mr Rs 
monthly payments werent taken in June and July 2022. G was responsible for taking these 
payments and I cant hold Carrot responsible for the fact they werent taken. And, as I said, I 
cant consider anything G did or didnt do in this complaint.
I note Mr Rs comments about what happened when the policy ended, but in this decision I 
can only consider anything that happened up to the date Carrot issued its response to his 
complaint  i.e. 14 October 2022. And, the events Mr R has referred to, occurred after this 
date. Mr R has said that this shows there were times it contacted him when he didnt owe 
any money. But the fact of the matter is that, regardless of the reasons why, he did owe 
money when Carrot contacted him at the time in question. And Mr R hasnt given me 
anything to make me think that the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision was 
unfair.
So, I still think the £150 in compensation Carrot has offered is sufficient compensation for 
any avoidable distress and inconvenience its caused.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think Carrot Risk Technologies 
Ltds compensation offer of £150 is fair. It should pay this to Mr R directly if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman