DRN-3706125
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as O, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly 
failed to pay it the promised incentive for switching its banking to another bank. 
O is represented by one of its directors, Mr W. 
What happened
O had two business current accounts with NatWest. In 2020, NatWest invited O to apply to 
switch its banking to a new bank, in return for an incentive payment of £4,000. 
Mr W decided to switch in order to get the incentive. He chose a new bank. In 
November 2020, he telephoned NatWests Business Banking Switch (BBS) line to discuss 
his plan. He was contemplating merging Os two current accounts before switching. 
NatWest explained on the phone that the incentivised switching scheme would only cover 
Os main bank account, but other accounts could be switched later or on the same date. 
Mr W was concerned about ending up without any banking for a period, so he decided not to 
move the account styled Number 2 account. He submitted his interest online and arranged 
with the new bank to switch his other account on 12 February 2021. 
On 28 June 2021, Mr W contacted the BBS phone line again to query the whereabouts of 
Os incentive payment. NatWest advised Mr W to contact the new bank, as they were 
responsible for paying out. 
Mr W complained to NatWest. In their response, NatWest said that O wasnt eligible to 
receive a payment, because it hadnt switched the eligible bank account. They 
acknowledged that they should have explained this in June 2021 and paid him £500 in 
recognition of their poor service. 
Mr W asked the Financial Ombudsman to look into what had happened. He said that 
NatWest should have told him which account he had to switch and had they done so, hed 
have switched it.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt recommend upholding Os complaint. 
She said NatWest had set out the customer journey and shown her the information available 
online, which explained the eligibility criteria for the incentivised switching scheme. So she 
didnt think theyd made an error. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. He pointed out 
that O had acted entirely in good faith. He made the following points, in summary:
The customer journey NatWest had set out was not Os journey. The bank had said 
O was eligible and written asking it to switch. He hadnt seen or been told to consult 
any other information. 
The eligibility criteria based on turnover through the bank account was irrelevant. The 
account that the bank said was eligible was Os Number 2 account. This was 
essentially a client account, which took in money from rentals and then paid it out. 
He was told to switch the main account, which he had. He didnt accept that the 
Number 2 account was the main account. 
He hadnt received any other correspondence. If NatWest couldnt produce copies of 
it, that was because he hadnt been sent it and therefore hadnt been given all the 
information he should have had. 
How was he supposed to know that what NatWest had said on the phone wasnt 
correct? 
If the advisor said that the main account needed to be switched, then they should 
have told him which account that was. 
NatWest told O to wait for four months after February to be paid, otherwise he would 
have chased up the incentive earlier.
In one of the phone calls, he had given NatWest his account number.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ive 
explained my reasons below.
I would like to start by saying that there is no question here that O acted in good faith. I also 
think NatWest acted in good faith. Ive seen no evidence that wrong information was given or 
information was withheld. I also note that NatWest had nothing gain by misleading O, as the 
money to cover the incentives had already been paid out to a third party. 
Mr W has argued that his customer journey was not the one set out by NatWest to our 
service and he didnt receive any correspondence telling him which account O needed to 
switch. He has sent us a copy of a letter the bank sent in July 2020 headed Introducing 
Business Banking Switch (BBS). This basically introduced the scheme, and said he could 
look at the BBS website to find out more. It told O to look out for further information from 
us. Its clear from this that this was intended to be the first of several communications.
Mr W has said he didnt get any more communications about the BBS scheme after the July 
2020 one and he argues that if NatWest cant produce copies, then they werent sent. The 
bank on the other hand, says that although it doesnt retain individual copies, O would have 
been sent a series of further letters about the scheme. 
Where both sides disagree about events, my role is to decide what I consider is more likely 
than not to have happened, taking into account all the circumstances. In this case, I think its 
more likely than not that the bank sent more communications and that these subsequent 
letters included the account number for the eligible account. I say this because the switching 
scheme used a process of automatic correspondence to all eligible businesses.
I dont think its likely that an automated system would have included O in the first mailing, 
then excluded it from all future ones. I also note that in his first phone call to the bank, in October 2020, Mr W began by saying they keep sending me this thing through about 
switching. I think this strongly implies multiple communications, which is how the scheme 
was designed to work. 
Ive seen copies of NatWests standard letters about the switch after the introductory one, 
which Mr W accepts he received. In each of the subsequent letters, there is a box on the 
right hand side headed How to Switch with a numbered list beneath. Point One directs the 
customer to go to the BBS website and enter your sort code and account number ending 
. In other words, the letters specified exactly which account number was eligible. 
My conclusion is that its more likely than not that NatWest sent O these letters and quoted 
the Number 2 account number as the eligible account on them. 
I accept that Mr W gave NatWest the account number of one of Os accounts (the ineligible 
one, which he regarded as Os principal account) in his phone call of November 2020. But 
NatWest didnt ask for this information or do anything with it. There was a discussion in that 
call about the need to switch Os main account but NatWests adviser wasnt looking at Os 
actual accounts at the time. She had no reason to think there was any misapprehension 
about which was the main account.
I dont agree that NatWests adviser should have told Mr W which account he needed to 
switch during that phone call. Neither do I consider that NatWest gave any inaccurate 
information on it. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect the bank to explain which the 
eligible account was, or how it was defined, unless a customer asked that question. 
Unfortunately, Mr W didnt ask because he thought he knew. 
I also dont agree with Mr W that the eligibility criteria were irrelevant. The switching scheme 
had very clear guidelines and I would not consider it fair to deviate from them. I therefore 
dont think it makes any difference that Os Number 2 account was a form of client account, 
according to Mr W. There was a clear definition as to which accounts were eligible, which 
was based on turnover through the account. The way the account was used or named by the 
customer wasnt relevant. 
NatWest accepted that its advisers had given O poor advice by indicating that everything 
was fine at their end and O should contact the new bank to chase the incentive payment. It 
has paid O £500 in recognition of this. Mr W has argued that if NatWest hadnt told O to wait 
for four months after February for the incentive to be paid, then he could have sorted things 
out in time. I havent seen evidence of any misleading communication before June 2021. In 
any case, it was a condition of the scheme that switches had to have been applied for by the 
end of February 2021, so anything after this would already have been too late.   
In summary, I think its more likely than not that NatWest gave O enough information to 
inform it that only one account was eligible for the incentive and which account it was. I 
realise this will be a disappointment for Mr W, but Im afraid it seems to me that he was 
working under an assumption, which he didnt check. I dont think NatWest made any errors, 
other than unhelpfully blaming the new bank in one phone call in June 2021, which made no 
difference. Im therefore not going to ask NatWest to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Os representative 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman