DRN-3189483
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him two packaged bank accounts. The 
first was called a Gold account and the second a Platinum account. Lloyds charged Mr K 
monthly fees for these accounts and provided several potential benefits in return. Mr K thinks 
that Lloyds should refund him all the fees he paid and add interest. 
What happened 
Mr K has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has checked its records for him 
and has told us that his account history is as follows: 
in or around 1995, he opened a fee-free account, which he kept until 2008,
in September 2008, Lloyds sold him the Gold account, which replaced his fee-free 
account and for which it charged a monthly fee,
in January 2012, Lloyds sold him the Platinum account, which replaced his Gold 
account and for which it charged a higher fee, 
in March 2016, Lloyds sold him additional features for his Platinum account, known as 
Club Lloyds (*),
in December 2019, Mr K went back to a fee-free account, but retained the Club Lloyds 
features, although Im not sure if he still has them. 
(*) Club Lloyds was an extra package available to Lloyds customers with various types of 
account, including those with no monthly fee. The features varied from time-to-time but 
included potential benefits such as cinema tickets or magazine subscriptions. Lloyds 
sometimes charged a monthly fee for this package. But the fee was quite a bit smaller than 
for either the Gold or the Platinum accounts and Lloyds would waive it for customers who 
deposited more than a certain amount into their account each month. 
Similarly, at some stages, both Mr Ks Gold account and his Platinum account had the 
additional designation of Vantage. Again, this designation was available to customers with 
various types of account. To qualify, customers had to meet certain banking criteria, but 
Lloyds did not usually charge a monthly fee. The designation entitled customers to receive 
interest on their current account. Lloyds withdrew the Vantage designation from all its 
customers, including Mr K, during February-March 2016. 
This account history is not in dispute and I have taken it to be accurate. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ks complaint. The adjudicator thought 
that Lloyds had behaved fairly when it sold him the packaged accounts and the Club Lloyds 
features. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Lloyds should give Mr K any money back. Mr K 
didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Ks 
complaint. Ive looked into everything that Mr K and Lloyds have told us or sent us about 
the case, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Mr K and Lloyds have both told us that Lloyds advised him to buy both the Gold and the 
Platinum accounts. As Lloyds gave him advice, to do things fairly in each case, I would 
have expected it to give him a choice, tell him about the accounts costs and benefits and 
check that the accounts were reasonable matches for his needs. 
Although Mr K has made similar points about the way Lloyds sold him the Gold and the 
Platinum accounts, as they were clearly separate events, I have considered them 
separately. Similarly, I have also considered the way it sold him the Club Lloyds features 
separately. Mr K has said very little about the Vantage designation and as Lloyds did not 
charge him any fees for this, there is little of substance for me to investigate with respect 
to potential mis-selling. I have not considered it any further. 
The way Lloyds sold Mr K the Gold account 
 
Both Lloyds and Mr K have told us that Lloyds sold him the Gold account during a meeting at 
one of its branches. Mr K has told us that Lloyds misled him into thinking that he had to buy 
the Gold account as Lloyds was planning to withdraw his fee-free account. In 
correspondence with us, he said The fact is I only took out the Gold account because I was 
informed by Lloyds they were changing all accounts to become fee paying...... Lloyds has 
denied saying this.
Obviously, I wasnt present at the meeting, so I cant tell for sure what Lloyd said, or didnt 
say, to Mr K. I accept that Mr K is doing his best to remember what happened back then, but 
I doubt that Lloyds misled him in the way he has described. Lloyds was not withdrawing fee-
free accounts. It has continued to provide them quite widely, as have other UK banks. It 
seems highly unlikely to me that it would have told Mr K the opposite. By that time Mr K had 
held a fee-fee account for at least ten years and I dont think it would have been credible for 
Lloyds to tell him he couldnt keep it. I accept that Lloyds may well have spoken positively 
about the Gold account, but I think it probably allowed Mr K a choice to keep his fee-free 
account. 
From what Mr K has told us, there is no dispute that Lloyds told him about the fees for the 
Gold account. And I also think its highly likely that it told him about the potential benefits. 
After all, it was trying to sell the Gold account to him and it was in its own interest to let him 
know what he could get in return for his monthly fees. Indeed, Mr K went on to use some of 
the benefits and has acknowledged that he knew about them. 
In 2008, the benefits of the Gold account included insurance for travel and mobile phones 
and use of a car breakdown service. Lloyds also usually charged customers with Gold 
accounts less interest on overdrafts than it applied to customers with fee-free accounts. I understand that Mr K had a mobile phone, travelled from time-to-time, and used a car. Hes 
also told us that he was interested in using an overdraft. So, he seems to have had a 
potential need for at least some of the Gold accounts benefits. I think it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to advise him to buy it. 
The way Lloyds sold Mr K the Platinum account
Mr K and Lloyds have both said that Lloyds sold him the Platinum account during a phone 
call. Mr K has told us that Lloyds said he couldnt keep the Gold account any longer. In 
correspondence with us, he said Lloyds informed (him that his) Gold account was basically 
defunct and (he) had to choose a different account and (the Platinum account) was the 
cheapest one on offer...
Once again, I cant tell for sure what Lloyds said, or didnt say, to Mr K over the phone. Mr K 
has suggested we ask Lloyds for a recording of the call, which we have done, but Lloyds 
hasnt been able to find one. However, in 2012, Lloyds wasnt withdrawing the Gold account. 
In 2013, it stopped selling it to new customers, but still provided it to customers who had 
bought it previously. Its still available to those customers today. So, I doubt it told Mr K the 
account was defunct and he couldnt keep it. I think its more likely that it allowed him a 
choice between the Gold and Platinum accounts. And for similar reasons to those I 
mentioned above, I also doubt that it denied him the option to have a fee-free account. 
There is no dispute that Lloyds told Mr K about the higher fees for the Platinum account. 
And, for the same reasons as with the Gold account, I also think its highly likely that it told 
him about the accounts potential benefits. 
In 2012, the main potential benefits of the Platinum account were similar to those of the 
Gold account. They included travel insurance, use of a car breakdown service and 
insurance for mobile phones. However, some of the benefits were more comprehensive. 
For example, the car breakdown service had more features than that provided with the Gold 
account, and depending on the amount a customer borrowed, overdrafts could be cheaper. 
Given Mr Ks circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to advise him to buy the 
Platinum account. Indeed, he went on to use the additional features of the car breakdown 
service, so obviously had a potential need for them. 
The way Lloyds sold the Club Lloyds package to Mr K
Although Mr K has complained about the Club Lloyds package, he has not told us a great 
deal about it. I have seen an internal note from Lloyds which shows that he usually met the 
banking criteria for Lloyds to waive the fee. And Mr K has said that after discussion with 
Lloyds it credited him every month with the exact same amount (as the fee) so essentially
the account is free. So, even if Lloyds made mistakes in the way it sold him the package, he 
doesnt seem to have lost out. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.  
Steve TownsleyOmbudsman