DRN-3581280
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Lamborghini 
Financial Services (VWFS) dealt with the settlement of a hire purchase agreement he had 
with them.
What happened
On 29 September 2021, Mr S was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. He paid a £30,000 deposit and the agreement was for £173,196.68 
over 36 months; with 35 monthly payments of £2,218.56 and an optional final payment of 
£120,751.65 if Mr S wanted to keep the car. 
Mr S settled the agreement on 8 October 2021, making two payments totalling £175,093.13. 
He complained to VWFS that the settlement figure was too high, and that hed overpaid on 
the agreement. VWFS didnt agree, so Mr S brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Mr S was challenging the settlement figure, as he didnt think he had to pay a charge if the 
agreement was settled within 14-days.
Our investigator said that, due to the value of the agreement being more than £60,260, the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) said there was no right of withdrawal. And this was made 
clear to Mr S in the agreement he signed. Whats more, the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004 (the regulations) allowed VWFS to reduce the interest rebate 
in early settlement to a total of 58 days. Which is what happened.
Given this, the investigator didnt think VWFS had done anything wrong, so they didnt need 
to refund Mr S any of the early settlement figure he paid.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the agreement didnt state a £60,000 
limit and said that a 14-day cooling off period applied. He also said that nowhere in any of 
the documentation he signed does it say there would be a £1,800 penalty if he cancelled 
within 14-days; and something as important as this should be on there.
Because he didnt agree, Mr S asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr S signed on 24 September 2021. And, in doing so, he 
confirmed that hed received copies of the pre-contract information and the agreement, and 
that he agreed to be legally bound by the Terms of this Agreement.
The right to withdraw from a credit agreement comes from section 66A of the CCA. This 
gives the customer a right to withdraw after entering into a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, without giving any reason, within 14 days. The 14-day period usually begins the 
day after the agreement is signed. In this instance on 25 September 2021. 
Notice of withdrawal can be given in any way and, if the customer does withdraw, theyre 
required to repay the credit any interest accrued. However, section 66A does not apply if it is 
an agreement for credit exceeding £60,260.
Mr S repaid the agreement on 8 October 2021, after it had been in force for 14-days. Given 
the amount of the agreement, and the timing of the payments, its reasonable to conclude 
that Mr S intended on this course of action from the outset. And, given this, it would be 
reasonable of Mr S to have read the parts of the agreement that related to early repayment 
before he signed it. And to have raised any queries he may have had.
Section 5(a) of the pre-contract information says you will have the right to cancel the credit 
agreement for 14 days  if you do not exercise your right to cancel, this agreement will 
remain in full force and effect and its terms and conditions will bind you. This is also 
confirmed in section 5.1 of the agreement. However, section 5.2 of the agreement clearly 
says, you have no right of withdrawal under section 66A of the [CCA].
Im aware that Mr S has said that he thinks the agreement was misleading. And he thinks it 
shouldve clearly stated what was going to happen applied. But I dont think that the 
agreement was unclear or misleading. Section 5.1 was clear that, if Mr S didnt cancel the 
agreement within 14-days, it would remain in full force. And section 5.2 was clear that he 
had no right to withdraw under the CCA. If Mr S was unsure about what this meant for him, 
and the difference between cancellation and withdrawal. he had the opportunity to query this 
before signing the agreement. But he chose not to do this.
As such, when he cancelled the agreement, Mr S did so as an early settlement, and not as a 
withdrawal. So, the early settlement regulations applied. 
Section 3 of the pre-contract information confirmed that interest charges are calculated daily 
on any balance overdue. Section 5 of the regulations allows for a settlement figure to be 
calculated for (and valid until) a date 28 days after the request for a settlement figure was 
made. And interest would be charged for this 28-day period. Whats more, where the 
agreement is for more than one year, Section 6 of the regulations allows for the settlement 
date, for the purposes of calculating an interest rebate, to be deferred by a further 30 days. 
As such, when calculating the interest rebate as part of the settlement figure, the regulations 
allow VWFS to charge interest for a period of 58 days from the date of the settlement 
request. And VWFS did this. Ive also seen that, when they provided Mr S with the 
settlement figure, they also detailed the amount owing under the agreement (including all 
interest) and the amount of interest that was being rebated.Given the above, Im satisfied that VWFS have followed the regulations when calculating the 
settlement figure. And I havent seen anything to show me this was calculated incorrectly.
Mr S believes that VWFS shouldve made it clear in the agreement that, if he repaid on day 
14, then he would have to repay £1,896.45 more than he borrowed. But I dont think this is a 
reasonable expectation. VWFS werent aware on what day Mr S intended to repay the 
agreement early, if at all. And I wouldnt expect them to list a potential repayment figure for 
every day the agreement was likely to be in force.
Instead, Id expect VWFS to provide an accurate settlement figure when asked to  which 
they did in this instance. And, if it was Mr Ss intent to repay the agreement within 14-days, 
Id have expected him to ask VWFS upfront how much, if anything, this was likely to cost him 
in addition to the amount he borrowed. But he didnt do this. And I dont think VWFS did 
anything wrong by not providing this figure to Mr S as part of the pre-contract information, as 
they were unaware of his intention.
Given the above, Im satisfied that VWFS acted reasonably. And I wont be asking them to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Lamborghini Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman