DRN-3352100
The complaint
Mr S complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a 
claim under his legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
In 2021, Mr S made a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy to pursue an action 
against his employer for disability and race discrimination. DAS subsequently declined the 
claim on the basis that its panel solicitors werent satisfied it enjoyed reasonable prospects 
of success  which is a requirement for cover under the legal expenses policy. 
Mr S complains that DAS sent him a letter to say his claim was being accepted, so he feels 
hes been given incorrect information. In addition, he says the Employment Tribunal (ET) has 
accepted his case which shows there are reasonable prospects. He brought his complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied DAS had declined the claim 
in line with the policys terms and conditions and that this decision was fair. So she didnt 
think it needed to do anything to resolve the complaint.
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr S legal expenses insurance policy says cover is available 
as long asreasonable prospects exist for the duration of the claim. It defines reasonable 
prospects as at least 51%. 
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if 
advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for me to 
evaluate the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, Ill look at whether the insurer has acted 
fairly. As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, I wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless I think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In this case, DAS obtained the advice of a panel firm. And they were of the opinion, that 
based on the information available, the claim didnt enjoy prospects of at least 51%. It said 
the disability discrimination claim had a 20% chance of winning and the race discrimination 
claim had 40%. So the policy terms and conditions had not been met.
Having considered the legal assessment, Im satisfied its properly written and well-reasoned. 
And its been obtained from a suitably qualified lawyer. So I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that DAS shouldnt rely on it. 
Rather its up to Mr S to obtain a contrary legal opinion on the merits of his claim, at his own 
cost if he wants to challenge this further. If such an opinion is supportive then DAS should 
reconsider the claim. But the fact that the ET has accepted the claim isnt proof that the 
claim has prospects required by the policy nor does it mean DAS werent entitled to rely on 
the legal advice it was provided at the time.
Ive also considered Mr S comments that DAS accepted his claim. Ive been provided with a 
copy of the letter in question and I can see that DAS has said it is covering the employment 
claim and has instructed its panel firm of solicitors. This letter goes on to say:
Continuing cover
The first thing you need to know is the legal strength of your claim. Your lawyer will make an 
assessment of your case and advise you of the outcome and the options available to you.
Your legal expenses policy will cover the cost of this assessment and, providing the lawyer 
confirms that your case has a reasonable chance of succeeding (i.e. above 50%), we will 
continue to fund your legal costs.
If your lawyer considers you do not have a reasonable chance of succeeding, your policy will 
be unable to cover your costs going forward and we will withdraw cover. It is important to 
bear in mind that this could occur at any point during the life of your claim as legal disputes 
are not always straightforward and circumstances can change. However, where this 
happens please be assured we will pay the costs up to that point, unless there have been 
any breaches of the policy terms and conditions.
As such, Im satisfied DAS set out clearly that cover would only continue if the solicitors were 
satisfied reasonable prospects existed. As the legal assessment was unsupportive, DAS 
withdrew cover which is what its letter said it would do. So Im not persuaded Mr S was given 
incorrect information.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman