DRN-4168536
The complaint
Mrs A said when she got a mortgage offer from Lloyds Bank PLC, it also persuaded her to 
use its conveyancers. Mrs A complains about those conveyancers, she said they caused the 
failure of her intended property purchase. And she felt Lloyds should accept responsibility.
What happened
Mrs A told us that she wanted to buy a property, and she would need a small mortgage to 
buy. She got a mortgage offer from Lloyds. 
Mrs A said Lloyds also convinced her to use its conveyancers, and Mrs A said that was 
where everything went wrong. She said the conveyancers just wouldnt get in touch with her, 
and she found it very difficult to contact them. She said the conveyancers told her the 
purchase would complete in September (although Mrs A apparently hadnt exchanged 
contracts at this point) so Mrs A gave notice on her rented property. She said the purchase 
wasnt ready by then, instead the conveyancers said they weren't ready to complete and 
there were a lot of problems with the property and paperwork. 
Mrs A said she had no choice but to withdraw from the purchase in October. She said that 
had a huge effect on her health, and caused great upset. She told us she then had to borrow 
money from family, in order to buy a different property.
Lloyds said it was very sorry to hear about what had happened, but it didnt think what had 
gone wrong here was its fault. Lloyds said it wasnt responsible for what the conveyancers 
did. They were an entirely separate firm, and they themselves were responsible for the 
service provided to Mrs A. 
Lloyds said Mrs A didnt have to use its conveyancers, and could have chosen her own 
conveyancer if shed preferred. It said it had sought to offer her its support when shed said 
she was unhappy with the service these conveyancers provided, and it was disappointed to 
hear about the service shed received. It had passed that feedback to the manager in charge 
of its conveyancing panel. It had also asked the conveyancers to open a complaint for Mrs 
A. Lloyds said it wouldnt do any more than that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She also thought Lloyds wasnt 
responsible for what the conveyancers had done. She didnt think Lloyds had delayed in 
issuing Mrs As mortgage offer, and it hadnt guaranteed the process would be completed by 
the end of September. 
Our investigator said Lloyds had shown us that the firm providing conveyancing to Mrs A 
was independent of Lloyds, and that she was told this when she was given a quote for 
conveyancing. So our investigator said she couldnt reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for 
actions or omissions by an independent third party. Our investigator didnt think she could 
conclude Lloyds had acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mrs A wrote to us again, detailing the ways in which shed been led to believe that this was a 
service Lloyds provided. She said this service was badged as Lloyds conveyancing. And 
she said Lloyds didnt act to put things right. Mrs A told us more about the effect this failed 
purchase had on her. She said she didnt understand how we could say that this wasnt 
Lloyds fault, when it had subcontracted this work to this firm, and then its mortgage advisor 
stepped in to help when things got difficult (although this didnt resolve things). 
Mrs A offered to send us further emails from the conveyancing firm. She wanted her 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. Im sorry to 
have to tell Mrs A that I dont think her complaint should be upheld either, and for essentially 
the same reason as our investigator gave  the core of what Mrs A is complaining about is 
something that was done by a firm which is separate to, and independent from, Lloyds. 
I know Mrs A has offered to send us further evidence from the conveyancing firm. But I 
havent asked to see that, because I dont think its likely to change my overall conclusion on 
this case. 
I have been very sorry to hear about Mrs As experience. Although I dont know for sure what 
went wrong in the conveyancing for the property, it is clear that shes found this aborted 
property purchase very upsetting indeed. And I understand why she links what happened so 
firmly to Lloyds. She says that this was presented to her as Lloyds conveyancing so shed 
understood it was a service Lloyds was offering to her. 
But I think the documentation Ive seen, including the quote which was sent to Mrs A for this 
conveyancing, makes clear that what Lloyds is doing, is linking its mortgage clients with a 
number of independent legal firms, to allow those firms to offer discounted conveyancing 
services to Lloyds clients. Its clear from this documentation that these conveyancers are 
separate firms to Lloyds, and Mrs A is under no obligation at all to take up their services. 
I know that Mrs A says this was badged as Lloyds conveyancing. It appears that this is 
because Lloyds provides a portal through which the purchase can be tracked, and the 
conveyancers on its list will use that to communicate with Mrs A. But I dont think that 
changes the underlying position, that the conveyancers are a separate firm who contracted 
directly with Mrs A to do the work on her property purchase. And I dont think that the 
Lloyds conveyancing label means it would be fair and reasonable here for me to hold 
Lloyds responsible for everything that this separate firm did. 
I would expect Lloyds to have been keen to assist Mrs A to keep her property purchase 
moving, if it was able to. And I can see that Mrs As mortgage advisor did try to assist with 
her conveyancing problems. Id also expect Lloyds to want to hear Mrs As feedback on this 
firm, as it is one of the firms Lloyds is introducing its customers to. So I would expect Lloyds 
to ask Mrs A for that feedback, and I can see that Lloyds has taken that on board. It has also 
passed Mrs As complaint on to the conveyancing firm itself, and I would expect that Mrs A 
would receive a separate response from that firm. 
I think that Lloyds has done all I would expect it to do, in these circumstances. Im sorry to 
have to tell Mrs A that I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Lloyds responsible for the failure of her property purchase in this instance. So, although I know Mrs 
A will be disappointed, I dont think her complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman