DRN-3830276
The complaint
Mr K has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him an 
Advantage Gold packaged bank account in August 1999. Mr K has explained that he was 
told that he needed to take out this account to retain his overdraft facility.
In 2005, Mr K says during a meeting with NatWest to discuss a mortgage, he was not given 
the option of having a fee free account with an overdraft facility.
Finally in 2016 Mr K says that when he was in different meeting with NatWest he was told 
that he could have a fee free account with an overdraft. He says that during this meeting he 
was told that this was due to a change in policy that this was allowed.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think that NatWest had mis-sold 
the packaged account. He also did not think that NatWest did anything wrong during the 
above meetings.
Mr K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to decide what to do about this complaint. 
I want to explain that Im going to focus on what I think are the key issues here and the crux 
of this complaint. I want to reassure Mr K that if I havent commented on an issue, point 
raised or a particular piece of evidence this doesnt mean I havent considered it nor that I 
think it to be unimportant  this just reflects the informal nature of our service.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr K was given a clear choice in taking the Advantage 
Gold account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make my decision 
based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened, having weighed up what 
both parties have been able to provide me with. 
Mr K upgraded from a free account, so I think that he wouldve been aware that NatWest 
offered free accounts and that they were an option for him. Mr K has said that he thought 
that he had to take out the account in order to keep his overdraft but hed already had an 
overdraft for a number of years prior to having a packaged account. So overall I think it is 
unlikely that he was told this. What I think is more likely is that he was told that taking out the 
account would allow him preferential rates on borrowing. Let me explain why.
Given how long ago this event occurred we have limited information as to what exactly the 
benefits were on an Advantage Gold account in 1999. That said, from what information we 
do have, it does appear that one of the benefits of the account was preferential rates on 
borrowing such as personal loans and overdraft facilities. So overall, I think what Mr K may 
recall is that taking out the account would allow him to obtain a better rate on a personal loan 
that he intended to take out at the time of the sale and to allow him to obtain a better rate on 
his existing overdraft, rather than he needed to have the account in order to retain his 
overdraft facility. Overall, albeit on balance, I am satisfied that Mr K was given a fair choice 
to take out the Advantage Gold account.
This sale was not carried out on an advised basis, so given this, NatWest did not have to 
ensure the account was right for Mr K at the time it was sold. That said, it did need to give Mr 
K enough information to decide this for himself. I think its likely the main benefits at the time 
- which were discounts on borrowing - wouldve been highlighted to Mr K to make the 
account seem attractive. Especially as Mr K took a £10,000 loan at the time the account was 
taken out.
Mr K may not have been told everything about all of the account benefits but I dont think 
that being given any further information about the account benefits wouldve changed his 
decision to agree to the account initially. So overall there is not enough for me to say that 
this account was sold incorrectly in the first place. 
In relation to the 2005 meeting, Mr K says he was told that he had to keep his Advantage 
Gold account in order to retain his overdraft. On balance I dont think he was told this. I think 
its more likely that what he recalls is being told that as he held an Advantage Gold account, 
he would be able to get access to mortgage products that were unavailable to non-
Advantage Gold holders. This is highlighted by the mortgage he took out around July 2005 
being one of these products. So I dont think that NatWest did anything wrong in relation to 
this.
In 2016 Mr K says he was again mis-led by NatWest. He says he was finally made aware 
that he could downgrade his account and retain his overdraft facility, but was mis-led into 
thinking that this was due to a change in policy of NatWest. 
I note that Mr Ks recollections of this meeting have changed over time. In his early 
complaint correspondence, there was no mention of being specifically told that this was due 
to a change in policy. Instead, it seems that Mr Ks main concern was that he believes he 
should have been told by NatWest that his account may have been mis-sold to him at this 
point.
 
Overall, I find it unlikely that NatWest would have intentionally mis-led Mr K at this point as I 
cant see why a member of staff in a different branch to where the account was sold would 
make up a supposed policy change, that didnt actually exist. 
I also think had this conversation occurred the way Mr K described, he would have 
mentioned it during his initial complaint. In any event, even had this conversation occurred 
exactly how Mr K described it, I cant see how it caused him a loss as he downgraded his 
account at this point. It could be argued that it may have delayed him complaining about his 
account being mis-sold, but as I dont believe the Advantage Gold account was actually mis-
sold to him in the first place, I dont think that this caused a loss either.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr K and I understand that with hindsight, he 
may feel that he has paid a lot of money over the years for this account and has not derived 
much benefit from holding it. But that does not mean that the account was sold incorrectly in 
the first place.
 I should also explain that this decision represents the last stage in our services process and 
there is no further recourse to appeal or discuss the merits of this complaint further within the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. That said, Mr K may be able to pursue his complaint 
elsewhere, such as court, if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman