DRN-2012163
The complaint
This complaint is about a bridging loan Mrs C used to hold with Octopus Property Lending 
Ltd. Very briefly, Mrs C believes her property was taken into possession illegally, and then 
sold for substantially less than it was worth, due to fraudulent behaviour on the part of 
Octopus and the selling agent. 
The resulting sale price left a substantial shortfall (well over £900,000) for which Octopus is 
pursuing Mrs C, which she argues is unfair. She says that if the property been sold for a fair 
price to one of the parties that had been willing to buy it, Octopus would owe her money 
rather than the other way around. Mrs C also says that an adjoining parcel of land, 
ownership of which disputed, was included in the sale.
Octopus is not the original name of the lender; it traded under a different name previously. 
For simplicitys sake, Ill refer to the business throughout as Octopus, even where referring to 
events that happened when it was trading under a different name.
What happened
The events leading up to, and arising out of, the complaint are complex; the file of evidence 
runs to around 4,500 pages of documents. Ive read everything, and its apparent that some 
parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There are also a 
lot of duplication of documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by 
necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented. Ive also 
rounded the figures involved.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my 
decision is published. A further reason is that much of what Mrs C wants us to deal with lies 
outside our scope.
I say that for several reasons. Firstly, theres been a great deal of litigation between the 
parties. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative to the court system, and its not 
our role or function to revisit or second guess what the courts have already decided. If I 
reference court proceedings - and the outcome(s) of them  in this decision, its to provide 
context to those matters that are in my remit.
Secondly, the Financial Ombudsman Service is not an extension of the criminal justice 
system. Mrs C has made allegations of fraud and other potentially criminal behaviour on the 
part of several organisations and/or individuals, that we simply cant deal with. Were here to 
deal with complaints of maladministration and/or unfair treatment on the part of financial 
businesses when dealing with their customers. 
In doing that, were governed at all time by our rules, and amongst other things, those rules 
decide which businesses and activities fall within our remit. We have no jurisdiction over the 
estate agent through which the property was marketed, or the other estate agents Octopus 
consulted to establish how much the property was worth.
The bridging loan at the heart of this complaint was taken out in 2015, and secured on a 
property Ill call N. Mrs C already owned N, and was trying to sell it. But she wanted to buy 
another property before N was sold, so she took the bridging loan with Octopus. The amount 
borrowed was around £3.1m, drawn in two tranches (one to repay the existing mortgage, the 
other to buy the new property) starting on 1 July 2015. Interest was charged on a roll-up 
basis (i.e. no monthly payments were due) with the entire sum - capital and accrued interest 
- repayable in full within one year. Land Registry records show Mrs C acquired her new 
property (Ill call it G) on 1 September 2015, for £1.8m.
Mrs Cs strategy for repaying the bridging loan was the sale of N, and she had it on the 
market with a firm of estate agents Ill call S. When the bridging loan came due for 
repayment in July 2016, Mrs C wasnt able to do so (she hadnt yet sold N) so Octopus 
granted her a one-year extension. Unfortunately, by the time that extension ran out in 
July 2017, the position hadnt changed. Mrs C agreed a sale to a Mr J in August 2017 for 
£4.75m, but this didnt proceed. 
Octopus didnt act immediately to repossess N; although it wrote to Mrs C in November 2017 
serving notice of its intention to start legal action, it took legal proceedings in 2018 
culminating in a possession order and money judgement (for around £4.4m) in Octopus 
favour. Taking possession in September 2018, Octopus obtained a valuation from an 
independent firm of surveyors - a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS)  Ill call K. The valuation that came back was £4.0m. 
Octopus appointed two firms of estate agents to market N in possession. One of these was 
S  the same estate agent Mrs C had been using to market the property before it was 
repossessed. The initial asking price was £4.5m; significantly less than S had been 
marketing it for when it was acting under Mrs Cs instructions before the possession.  During 
the autumn of 2018, N suffered a flood; repairs were carried out, and Octopus added the 
cost of the repairs to the bridging loan account. 
Whilst this had been going on, three parties had been interested in buying N; a Mr C, a 
Mr and Mrs B (the eventual buyers) and an educational organisation Ill call A. These 
potential buyers had been in the picture before the possession, and Mrs C says all had 
indicated to S that they might buy N for a much higher figure than Octopus was now 
marketing it for in possession. 
N was eventually sold to Mr and Mrs B in March 2019, for £4.23m. After the costs of sale 
had been added to the outstanding bridging loan balance, the sale proceeds didnt cover the 
debt in full. There remained a shortfall of around £930,000. 
When Octopus began the process of recovering this from Mrs C, she complained. She says 
Octopus had ignored As offer altogether, even though the court had been made aware of it 
in the possession proceedings. More seriously, Mrs C says Octopus and S colluded in 
helping Mr and Mrs B to buy N for less than theyd been willing to pay earlier in 2018.
Mrs C says that whilst she was still trying to sell N herself, shed told a staff member at S in 
confidence about the possibility of it being taken into possession. She says the staff member disclosed this to Mr and Mrs B, who then waited until possession had happened before 
buying N at a much lower price. Shes also said that S staff tried (and succeeded) in 
discouraging A from buying N. Octopus rejected the complaint and Mrs C brought it to us in 
June 2019.
Mrs C made a separate complaint about the flood damage N suffered after it had come into 
Octopus possession. Aside from saying it was unfair that she should bear the cost of the 
repair, she also said it had further enabled Mr and Mrs B to negotiate a lower price. Octopus 
issued a final response agreeing to remove the repair costs from the outstanding debt; this 
was because the flood had been caused by an error by the firm of asset managers Octopus 
had appointed to look after the property.
Mrs C also told us Octopus had tried to claim for the damage on the property insurance, but 
when we asked her for evidence of this, none was forthcoming.
We initially told Mrs C that if she wanted us to look into the complaint about the flood, it 
would need to be a second complaint, separate from this one. We later merged the two after 
Octopus suggested we look at both complaints together. However, that still left a substantial 
part of Mrs Cs complaint outside our jurisdiction. One of my ombudsman colleagues issued 
a jurisdiction decision in May of this year, setting out the limitations on our remit to consider 
the complaint.
I dont intend to reproduce that decision its entirety, and I certainly wont be revisiting it, but 
the gist of it was that:
we cant consider any of the allegations Mrs C has made about S and its staff members, 
or any party other than Octopus; and
we have no power to interfere with something a court has decided. That meant we 
wouldnt be considering anything to do with the identity of the lender, the validity of the 
debt or the amount of the debt (because the court order had included a money 
judgement).
My fellow ombudsman also corrected a number of mistaken statements Mrs C had made 
about the identity of the lender, the role of the Financial Conduct Authority and the function 
of this services Independent Assessor.
From there, our investigator went on to issue her findings on those aspects of the complaint 
that we could consider, which were, in summary:
whether Octopus had sold N for a reasonable price, such that the shortfall was a valid 
debt; and
whether it had treated Mrs C fairly over the post-possession flood.
On these issues, the investigator wasnt persuaded Octopus had acted unreasonably or 
treated Mrs C unfairly. Mrs C asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes Mrs Cs email of 3 September 2020 and her 59-page response dated 
19 June 2020 to the investigators view, Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Octopus role was provider of the loan; it didnt sell Mrs C the bridging loan or advise her on 
its suitability for her needs and circumstances. Mrs Cs financial intermediary was 
responsible for those elements of the transaction. Im aware Mrs C has also challenged 
Octopuss description of the intermediarys role as the party who advised to take the bridging 
loan out. But thats consistent with the information recorded on the bridging loan application 
Octopus received, and its what was recorded on the bridging loan offer in 2015. If Mrs C 
thinks the intermediary did something wrong, shed need to complain separately to it. 
One of the issues Mrs C has raised is whether the bridging loan is regulated or unregulated. 
She says it was purported to be regulated but it later turned out not be. A bridging loan 
becomes regulated when the loan is secured against a property that is currently occupied, 
or will be occupied in the future, by the borrower or any member of their immediate family.
A regulated bridging loan can either be first or second charge. This means it can either be 
the only/sole loan secured against the property (first charge), or, if there is enough equity in 
the property after a mortgage or any other secured loan, it can be placed behind the first 
charge lender (second charge). This type of bridging loan is regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) and falls under the same regulation as a residential mortgage.
N was occupied by Mrs C when she took the bridging loan out, and Octopus took a first 
charge over N when it granted the loan; this replaced the first charge held by her previous 
mortgage lender. So there would appear to be no reason for the loan not to be regulated; 
and the loan agreement itself describes the loan as regulated. 
I cant speculate on how or why Mrs C was led to believe the loan was unregulated, and it 
isnt something I need to concern myself with in any event. It has no bearing on my remit; 
thats because, regulated or not, the bridging loan was a loan secured on land, which is an 
activity covered by our scheme rules.
We dont regulate financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how 
they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, and we dont 
take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what evidence we need to decide a complaint, where we should get it 
from, and what weight we should attach to it once we have it. Its my judgement to make on 
when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion. Its also for me to judge the 
reliability and relevance of the evidence from both sides. 
Weve asked Mrs C to provide specific evidence to corroborate several of her allegations; 
she hasnt done so, preferring generally to repeat the allegations and/or disregard evidence 
that contradicts her argument. 
One example of the latter is where Mrs C disputes the stated position on who did or didnt 
advise her in the lending transaction. On this point, we were able to present her with a copy 
of a letter her solicitor sent Octopus on 24 June 2015. The solicitor confirmed having met 
Mrs C in person and that theyd explained to her the precise details of the bridging loan 
agreement (which of course, included detailed of who had advised her to apply for it). 
Despite this, Mrs C has continued to press the allegation.
Another example is Mrs Cs claim that the eventual buyers of N succeeded also in acquiring 
the adjoining parcel of land. She says A was happy to buy N on its own, but Mr and Mrs B wanted the adjoining parcel of land as well, and Octopus delayed matters whilst a dispute 
over the land was resolved by a tribunal, thus allowing it to be acquired by Mr and Mrs B 
along with N.
Mrs C has adduced no evidence to corroborate that, but weve carried out our own research. 
A search of Land Registry records revealed that as at May 2020, the parcel of land hadnt 
changed hands since 2017 when it came into the ownership of a corporate entity based 
outside the UK. So it seems unlikely to me that the sale of N to Mr and Mrs B by Octopus in 
March 2019 could have included the adjoining parcel of land. 
Im not suggesting for one moment that Mrs C has made deliberately false allegations. But 
anomalies like this (and others that I havent detailed) diminish the reliability of her evidence, 
and limit the weight I can place on it when deciding the complaint.
 
Mrs C has questioned the presentational quality of the evidential material Octopus had sent 
us. Wed provided this to her in response to a data subject access request shed made of us 
after Octopus apparently failed to provide her with key documents. Mrs C has said the 
volume of material (and the way it was presented) has made it very difficult for her (and us) 
to assimilate. 
Matters of data protection generally are for the Information Commissioners Office to deal 
with; the exception would be if I considered evidence essential to my reaching a fair 
conclusion to the complaint was missing. Im satisfied thats not the case here. As to the 
volume of information and the manner of its presentation, its not up to us to direct 
consumers or businesses on how to present information. We accept what were given and 
we take whatever time is necessary to ensure weve read and assimilated everything.
I appreciate Mrs C has had a long and arduous task in doing the same thing when preparing 
her response to the investigators view of the merits of the case. However, Im satisfied we 
gave her the time she needed to do so; the comprehensiveness of her submission is 
testimony to that.
All of that aside, however, the fact remains that my review of the underlying merits of the 
complaint, which follow next, is confined to the same two broad issues on which the 
investigator made her findings. Mrs C has continued to argue her case on all the matters 
weve told her we cant deal with, but for the avoidance of doubt, my review of her complaint 
covers the following, and nothing more: 
whether Octopus had sold N for a reasonable price, such that the shortfall was a valid 
debt; and
whether it had treated Mrs C fairly over the post-possession flood.
The starting point regarding the sale is that once it had possession, Octopus duty was to sell 
N for the best price achievable within a reasonable period of time (my italics). Its important 
to note that the best price and the highest price might not be the same things. It may be a 
rather subjective test but the approach we take, in essence, is that a lender shouldnt sell for 
too low a price to achieve a quick sale nor unduly delay a sale (thus potentially adding 
further to the borrowers interest and other costs) to achieve an unrealistically high price.
Its about finding a balance between the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders are 
expected to obtain independent valuations from suitably-qualified professionals, and then to 
market the property with a view to achieving a selling price at, or close to, the valuations 
provided by those independent professionals. In the case of N, Im satisfied thats what 
Octopus did. Ive already mentioned the post-possession valuation by K at £4m. In addition to that, Octopus had obtained an independent valuation by another RICS-registered firm 
shortly before taking possession. That valuation came in at between £4.25 and £4.5m. 
My remit doesnt extend to questioning the content of the reports. These were the 
professional opinions of the parties Octopus was required to consult. It was entitled to rely on 
those opinions when deciding how much to try and sell the property for. In much the same 
way, Octopus had been entitled to rely on the valuation of £7m given by the independent 
expert it consulted before granting the bridging loan three years earlier.
Octopus initially marketed N at £4.5m, but despite the earlier interest from Mr C and A, and 
around fifteen viewings from other parties, the only firm offer received post-possession was 
that of £4m from Mr and Mrs B. Ive read everything Mrs C has said about how she believes 
S undermined As interest and helped Mr and Mrs B to reduce their offer, but as Ive already 
said, none of that can form part of my findings on Octopus handling of the sale.
Mr and Mrs Bs first offer of £4m was rejected, but they made a higher offer and completion 
took place in March 2019 at £4.23m. In all the circumstances, and within the context of what 
Im able to consider, I think that selling N for £4.23mit was a reasonable decision by 
Octopus. 
Ultimately, any property is only worth what someone is willing to pay for it at any given time. 
Mrs C has talked extensively about the parties who had said they were willing to pay more, 
but the bottom line is that no one did, and I cant fairly attribute that to any acts or omissions 
on Octopus part. 
The eventual shortfall resulting from the sale reflected the selling price and the costs 
Octopus incurred to sell it. With one exception that Ill address next, Im satisfied those costs 
were fairly and reasonably incurred. Im aware Mrs C has questioned why S charged 
Octopus a higher commission rate than it had agreed with her, but S commission rates dont 
fall within my remit.
Putting all of the above together, my overall conclusion is that the shortfall is a valid debt for 
which Octopus can fairly hold Mrs C liable, and can reasonably seek repayment proposals 
from her or, in the absence of any such proposals, can seek to enforce it by other means. 
Ive next considered the flood. As a starting point, the term and conditions of a mortgage 
allow a lender to debit the cost of repairs to properties in possession onto the mortgage 
account. 
But theres still the question of fairness, and here, Octopus was wrong to do so. The repairs 
in question were for damage resulting from an error on the part of its asset manager, so the 
fair thing was for Octopus to bear the cost of the repairs rather than add them to Mrs Cs 
shortfall debt.
So I was glad to see that in response to Mrs Cs follow-up complaint, Octopus accepted that 
the repair costs should be removed from her shortfall debt. It was the right thing to do, and 
the remedy that I would have required of it if it hadnt done so on its own initiative. As I 
mentioned earlier, we invited Mrs C to provide evidence to back up here allegation that 
Octopus tried claiming on her property insurance, but when we gave her the opportunity to 
evidence that, Mrs C was unable to do so.
There remains the question of whether and how the flood impacted on the eventual price 
Mr and Mrs B paid for N. Where evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, Im required to 
reach a decision on what is most likely to have happened on the balance probabilities. Thats 
broadly the same test as that used by the courts in civil cases. Octopus records show that after their first offer was rejected, Mr and Mrs B had come back 
with an increased offer of £4.25m, which was later reduced by £20,000, hence the eventual 
completion at £4.23m. This was because Mr and Mrs Bs survey had noted some dampness 
in the basement. Ive not had sight of that survey, so cant know for sure when it was carried 
out. Its possible that the dampness was related to the effect of the flood. Its also possible 
that some dampness was already present before the flood; Ive noted Mrs Cs opinion on this 
but which of the two is more likely is unknowable.
So it would be an over-simplification to say that the dampness was certainly caused by the 
flood and this was the sole reason for the price reduction. Even if it hadnt happened, there 
was always scope for some other factor to affect the final sale price. For example, Im 
informed Mr and Mrs Bs conveyancers raised concerns over access rights. This held up the 
sale whilst an indemnity was sought.
My broader point here is that this was a complex transaction conducted over many months, 
for the sale of a niche property in a very specialised segment of the housing market, where 
buyers tend to be very exacting in their requirements and minded to negotiate hard. In my 
view, to find that Mr and Mrs B paid less than they might have done for N simply because of 
the flood requires me to speculate beyond what I consider is safe to do. 
In any event, what isnt in dispute and requires no speculation is that the price Mr and Mrs B 
paid for N was very close to the median of the two expert valuations Octopus obtained 
before putting N up for sale. Mrs C has frequently referenced the valuation of £7m when the 
loan was applied for in 2015 (as Ive already said, not something this service has the power 
to challenge) and the various opinions shes expressed on Ns value in 2018/19 have 
generally been over £6m. But its worth remembering that she was prepared to sell N in 
2017 for £4.75m; that fell through because the buyer wanted to complete in the spring of 
2018.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself, first of all to those matters that our rules permit me to 
consider, and secondly, to those matters that I consider have a material effect on the 
outcome. I can see from her submissions the determination with which Mrs C has brought 
the complaint. Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support (or in 
some cases, prove beyond dispute) the opposite viewpoint. Be that as it may, I have to take 
a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at things objectively, sometimes taking 
a step back and focussing on the broader picture. Thats what Ive done. Having done so, I 
cant find in Mrs Cs favour, however much she thinks I should.
In closing, Ill make one further general observation about the nature of the complaint and 
our ability to deal with it. Its my view that our service was never the most appropriate forum 
for Mrs C to have all of her concerns heard about all of the parties involved. Realistically, the 
only body that could deal with everything with which Mrs C is unhappy would be a court of 
law. 
So many of her allegations (some of which are of a criminal nature) are aimed at third parties 
over whom we have no jurisdiction. These other allegations are totally intertwined with the 
complaint against Octopus, and arent readily separated from it. To corroborate them would, 
realistically, require sworn testimony from those third parties, and unlike a court we have no 
power to compel such evidence.Mrs C has said that shes not well-placed to go to court, and I understand and appreciate 
that. But I, and this service generally, cannot take the place of a court. Our rules dont allow 
that, and if I acted outside the powers our rules give me, any decision I reached would have 
no standing and would be completely unenforceable.
My final decision
Mrs Cs position is an unenviable one, and Im not unsympathetic towards her situation. But 
for all the reasons given, my final decision must be that I dont uphold this complaint or make 
any award against Octopus Property Lending Ltd. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman