DRN-3637933
The complaint
Ms N complains about the sale of a maintenance package by Select Contracts UK Limited 
trading as Select Car Leasing (Select) in relation to her car hire agreement. 
Ms N is represented by her husband, Mr N, but for the purposes of this decision, I will refer 
to Ms N throughout as the hire agreement is in her name. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
In July 2022, I issued my provisional decision partially upholding the complaint, I said:
Select brokered a car hire agreement for Ms N and as part of that agreement it included a 
maintenance package which offered a number of features such as car service, car 
maintenance, tyre replacement, MOT, etc. The maintenance package was provided by the 
car finance lender. As this complaint is about the sale of the maintenance package, Im 
satisfied I can consider it against Select. 
Ms N complained at the time of entering the agreement, Selects website said one of the 
features of the maintenance package was the free pick up and return of the vehicle from 
home/work. Shes said this feature was important to her especially with raising a young 
family and her employment. Ms N has provided a screenshot of what the website said at the 
time she entered into the agreement which Ive considered. Having done so, its clear this 
collection service was listed as one of the features of the package.  However I understand 
she later found out the collection service wasnt guaranteed and would be dependent on the 
garage. In this case, her nearby garages didnt offer it and despite Selects attempts to assist 
in finding alternative garages who would offer it, they were unable to find one. On this basis, 
I can understand Ms Ns frustration and disappointment because this feature of the package 
wasnt what she expected. 
Initially when Ms N complained, Select said they hadnt done anything wrong as their 
website made it clear that the collection service isnt guaranteed. However Ms N provided 
the above evidence of what the website show at the time she entered into it. In light of the 
same, Select accepted they provided misleading information. This is no longer in dispute so I 
dont intend to provide further comments about this, its apparent there was a failing by 
Select. I understand Select has since updated their website to make it more clear. 
What remains in dispute is how to put things right. Select has proposed the following 
resolution:
-Refund the total maintenance package cost (£1,180);
-Refund their arrangement fee (£234);
-Provide a written apology to Ms N;
-Pay £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Having carefully considered what has happened I believe this is a fair resolution. I say this 
because it puts Ms N back in the position she wouldve been in had she not taken out the 
maintenance package. I must also point out that Select said Ms N would still be able to make 
use of the maintenance package including servicing but it would be at no cost to her as 
essentially they will be covering the cost of it. 
I understand Ms N feels strongly about this matter and it has caused her trouble and upset 
as Select only accepted her version of events once she provided further information of what 
their website showed and she had to make arrangements for the car to be taken to a garage 
to be serviced. Having considered the impact, I find £500 compensation is fair in the 
circumstances.
I know the investigator previously recommended the agreement should come to an end and 
the car to be returned subject to the cost of fair usage however I dont find this to be an 
appropriate nor proportionate resolution. I consider the maintenance package to be an 
ancillary product to the supply of the car and theres no evidence to suggest Ms N had any 
issues with the car itself so I dont find the return of the car and the ending of the entire 
agreement to be proportionate. Moreover having listened to the calls between Ms N and 
Select, Im not persuaded the maintenance package nor the requirement that it offered a 
collection service was a determining factor when she entered into the agreement. I say this 
because Ms N had already indicated to Select that she wished to proceed with the 
agreement before discussing the maintenance package. She wasnt initially unhappy with 
the proposed monthly cost of the maintenance package and she said to Select if the cost 
couldnt be reduced, she would proceed with the agreement without it. Select later confirmed 
they had managed to secure a lower price and Ms N agreed to it. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied there was a failing by Select when they 
brokered this hire agreement, they provided misleading information about the maintenance 
package. However I consider their offer of resolution to be fair in the circumstances as it puts 
Ms N in the position she wouldve been in had she not opted for the package. 
Response to the provisional decision
Select accepted the findings. Ms N said she was disappointed by my findings. In summary 
she said:
- Select had continued to deny their website had been changed and they only 
accepted this once she had provided documentary evidence of the same;
- The maintenance package was a key part of entering into the agreement and she 
wouldnt have agreed to it if the collection service wasnt guaranteed;
- Select had deliberately been deceitful and she was concerned about their actions 
and impact on other consumers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms N is disappointed by my findings. I thank her for the response which Ive 
considered in full. However having done so, I find no new points have been raised. I accept Select initially didnt agree to uphold the complaint as they didnt think they had 
done anything wrong. They only accepted the website had changed once Ms N had provided 
documentary evidence of the same. Ive made reference to this in my provisional decision in 
terms of the compensation for trouble and upset and I find the amount offered was fair. Ive 
also explained my reasons as to why Im not convinced the maintenance package was a 
determining factor in entering this agreement so I wont repeat them again here. Lastly, I 
must stress to Ms N that my role isnt to punish Select, that is the role of the regulators. Ive 
considered the individual circumstances of what happened when she entered into this 
agreement. There is no dispute there has been a failure by Select but I believe their 
resolution is fair in the circumstances. 
That said, while Ms N remains disappointed she has confirmed she is willing to accept it. On 
that basis, I still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Therefore, my final decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
To put things right, Select Contracts UK Limited trading as Select Car Leasing must:
-Refund the total amount of the maintenance package;
-Refund their arrangement fee;
-Provide a written apology to Ms N;
-Pay £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman