DRN-3306317
The complaint
Miss T complains about a fixed sum loan with etika Finance UK Limited trading as Paybreak, 
which she says she didnt agree to.
What happened
In April 2019, Miss T says she spoke to a representative of a college, who Ill call A, while 
she was walking through a local shopping centre. Miss T says that she agreed to talk further 
with A about the educational courses the college could offer, so made an appointment to do 
so.
Once at the appointment, Miss T says A started an enquiry form on the colleges computer 
system. She says A asked her for her bank account card, so they could spell her name 
correctly and generate a price for the course they had spoken about. Miss T says once A 
had told her about the cost, she told them she wasnt interested and left the appointment.
On the same day, etika sent an email to Miss T to say that she had been approved for a loan 
to pay for the course she had discussed with A.
Around a month later, Miss T says she received an enrolment email from the collage and a 
request for payment. Miss T says she quickly visited the college, who told her the email was 
sent in error and her enrolment would be cancelled.
However, later in May 2019, etika sent Miss T an email to say they had set up a direct debit 
to repay the fixed sum loan. After receiving the email, Miss T says she told her bank account 
provider what had happened and reiterated to the collage that she didnt enrol onto a course. 
Miss T also called etika and told them to cancel the loan agreement and says she thought 
the matter had been resolved.
In May 2020, etika sent Miss T an email and told her the final payment under the fixed sum 
loan agreement had been made. Miss T says it was at this point she realised that payments 
had been made from her account, every month over the previous year. So, Miss T raised a 
dispute with her bankers, who successfully reclaimed all the repayments from etika. Miss T 
also raised a complaint with etika for setting up the loan without her authorisation.
In their final response to Miss T complaint, etika explained that Miss T tried to cancel the 
loan after the 14 day cooling of period, set out in the terms and conditions of her enrolment 
on the course. They also said Miss T hadnt told them about a fraudulent application 
previously and that she had provided A with all the information necessary for the loan 
application. etika also said Miss T had made repayments to the loan for the previous year.
Miss T didnt accept etikas response and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Miss Ts case and found she had raised concerns about a 
fraudulent application in May 2019. He also said there were reasons why Miss T thought the 
repayments from her bank account were for something else and that she may have missed 
etikas welcome email in April 2019. 
The investigator concluded that etika hadnt treated Miss T fairly and that they should end 
the fixed sum loan agreement. He said etika should remove any adverse information from 
Miss Ts credit file and pay Miss T interest for the time the repayments were taken from her 
bank account. He also said etika should pay Miss T £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
she experienced, when they asked a debt recovery agency to pursue Miss T for the balance 
of the loan.
Miss T accepted the investigators conclusions, but etika didnt agree with the findings. They 
said it was unlikely Miss T wouldnt have noticed where the repayments were going to and 
that she didnt respond to their email in April 2019. They also said they were unaware of 
Miss Ts claim of a fraudulent application, so shouldnt be held responsible for any distress 
caused to Miss T, by the debt recovery activity.
The investigator didnt change his conclusions, so Miss Ts case has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974
Miss T was given the educational course through a fixed sum loan agreement with etika. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) has the effect of making A the agent of 
etika during the antecedent negotiations. 
These negotiations were in the lead up to the signing of the loan agreement, starting from 
when Miss T first spoke to A. But essentially, this means etika are responsible for the acts or 
omissions of A in relation to the sale of the course to Miss T. In other words, etika are 
responsible for the things the advisor said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the sales 
process.
The loan application
Miss T has explained that she approached A, when walking through a shopping centre. She 
has given a detailed description about what happened at this first meeting, and when she 
subsequently met A, to talk more about the educational course she had shown interest in. 
Meanwhile, etika have said that A didnt advertise in shopping centres.
I acknowledge what etika have told us. But, I have considered all the details Miss T has 
provided and I think she has been consistent in what she says. I think her version of events 
is credible, given the surrounding evidence of the emails she sent to A in May 2019. So, on 
balance, I think its likely Miss T met with A, when she saw their educational courses 
advertised, and agreed to a follow up meeting on 5 April 2019.
While at the subsequent meeting with A, Miss T says A gave her some details about the 
content of the course, the costs involved and the discount they were able to offer. She says 
she was told that A needed to see her debit card, to spell her name correctly on an enquiry 
form. And she says A told her an enquiry form was needed, to generate additional discounts 
and the actual cost of the course. So, she handed her debit card to the advisor. After A told 
Miss T the cost of the course, she says she decided not to go ahead, and the meeting 
ended.
I think its reasonable that Miss T handed A her debit card, after being told it was needed to make sure her name was spelt correctly on the enquiry form. Miss T was attending a 
meeting specifically to discuss an educational course, so I think it follows that she could 
have expected to hand over some personal details.
Ive concluded that Miss T met with A to discuss the course. And that it was likely she 
handed her debit card to A at some point during that meeting. But, Miss T says she didnt 
agree to the loan application at the meeting with A. So, Ive gone on to consider the emails 
Miss T sent to etika and A, when she says she realised what had happened.
The emails from Miss T in May 2019
I can see from Miss Ts records that A sent her an email on 8 May 2019, which summarises 
the start dates of the course. Her records show that she replied to this email to say she 
wanted to speak with A to clear the dates of the course, before it starts and is paid for.
The records from etika show they sent Miss T a direct debit reminder, via email on 21 May 
2019. I can see that Miss T called etika and A twice, on the same day to try and cancel the 
agreement. Within that correspondence Miss T told A she wasnt aware of any financing 
options and didnt authorise a direct debit instruction.
I can also see that Miss T visited A on 24 May 2019, where she says A told her the course 
and loan agreement would be cancelled. And Miss T sent A another email on 29 May 2019 
mentioning that meeting and to make sure everything was ended.
Having considered all the evidence, I think Miss T responded very quickly to both As email 
about the start dates of the course and etikas email about the direct debit. On balance, I 
think Miss T explained to A that she hadnt known about the loan, or authorised a direct debit 
in May 2019. I also think Miss T made it clear to etika that she wanted to cancel the loan 
agreement.
Throughout this complaint etika have told us Miss T didnt cancel the course or the fixed sum 
loan within the fourteen day cooling off period, explained in the terms and conditions. I 
accept in the circumstances that Miss T had simply changed her mind, the cooling off period 
becomes very relevant. 
But, Miss T says she didnt sign or authorise the loan agreement. So, Ive considered and 
placed more weight on the evidence around Miss Ts actions when she says she became 
aware, rather than the term etika have relied upon.
Ive further considered etikas argument that Miss T didnt tell them she didnt authorise the 
loan, until a year after it was taken out. I agree Miss T may not have expressly said to them 
that a third party had taken the loan out in her name. However, I think its reasonable to 
consider that English isnt Miss Ts first language, and her correspondence with A, did 
suggest the course and finance was agreed to without her knowledge.
The welcome email from etika and the repayments made by Miss T
Within etikas records, I can see they sent a welcome email to Miss T on 5 April 2019. They 
say this email made Miss T aware that the loan had been agreed to pay for the course 
supplied by A. And that Miss T didnt respond, or tell them she didnt apply for the loan until 
nearly two months later.
Ive considered the content of etikas email of 5 April 2019, which told Miss T her application 
had been approved. The email also speaks about other steps Miss T could take, once she 
verifies her email address.Theres no record of Miss T verifying her email address or contacting either etika or A until 
early May 2019. So, I agree with the investigator here, in that on balance, Miss T may have 
missed of overlooked etikas email of 5 April 2019. I dont think it means Miss T accepted the 
loan had been agreed, just because she didnt respond to etikas welcome email.
Ive also considered the monthly loan repayments made from Miss Ts bank account from 
June 2019 until May 2020. I acknowledge and understand etikas argument, in that it is 
reasonable for Miss T to have noticed payments of £250 leaving her bank account every 
month for a year. Miss T says she thought the payments were going to her savings account 
and has provided evidence that she regularly transfers funds into that facility.
Having thought very carefully about all the evidence, on balance, I think it was reasonable to 
Miss T to have thought the repayments for the loan, may have been transfers to her savings 
account. I agree that she thought the loan had been cancelled with A, given the emails she 
sent to them in May 2019. 
Rather than the repayments themselves, I think the steps Miss T took, when she became 
reasonably aware that the loan account was active, show that she didnt agree to it. I also 
think the evidence shows Miss T didnt ever start the course, sign into the loan account 
online or attend any training sessions. And I think this supports what she says, in that she 
didnt authorise the loan application.
Furthermore, I cannot see that etika or A carried out an income and expenditure exercise 
with Miss T, or took details of her employer, position or salary.
In all the circumstances, I dont think Miss T authorised the fixed sum loan agreement 
provided by etika, or the educational course supplied by A. Under section 56 of the CCA, I 
think etika are responsible for the actions of A, when the loan was applied for in Miss Ts 
name. So, I think etika are responsible for providing Miss T with a remedy.
Miss Ts responsibility towards the repayments
Ive found that Miss T didnt authorise the opening of the fixed sum loan agreement. To put 
matters right, I think its fair that etika should allow Miss T to exit the agreement at no further 
cost to her. In other words, I think etika should treat the loan as if the application wasnt ever 
started by A and that Miss T wasnt ever responsible for the repayments.
Miss T was without the use of the funds taken by direct debit by etika. I think etika should put 
Miss T back in the position she would have been in, had the fixed sum loan not been 
opened. So, I think its fair for etika to pay interest, at a rate of 8% simple, on each 
repayment from the date they were paid by Miss T, to the date they were paid back to her, 
under the direct debit indemnity claim.
The documents given to us by etika and Miss T show that a debt collection agency has been 
in touch with her about the repayment of the loan account. Overall, Ive concluded that 
Miss T didnt authorise the opening of the fixed sum loan. So, I think its fair that etika should 
remove any records about the loan, including any arrears or missed payments from the 
information held with credit reference agencies.
Miss T has been pursued for the balance of the fixed sum loan, since the repayments were 
recalled by her bankers in May 2020. Additionally Miss T was told by etika that any 
information related to the arrears owing to the loan account, will be passed to credit 
reference agencies.
Having considered everything, I think Miss T experienced distress and inconvenience when etika asked her to repay a loan which she told them she didnt authorise, a month after it was 
taken out in her name. So, I think its fair for etika to pay Miss T £150 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience she has suffered.
Putting things right
etika should:
- allow Miss T exit the fixed sum loan agreement with nothing further to pay.
- pay Miss T interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on each of the loan repayments 
she made, from the date they were paid, to the date of the direct debit indemnity 
claim refund;
- pay Miss T £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused; and
- remove any information about the fixed sum loan agreement, from the records held 
about Miss T with credit reference agencies.
Additionally, etika must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Miss T accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on 
the settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If etika deducts tax from any interest they pay to Miss T, they should provide her with a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and etika Finance UK 
Limited trading as Paybreak should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman