DRN-3606674
The complaint
Mr K and Mr K, a partnership, complain that National Westminster Bank Plc has failed to 
compensate them for consequential losses caused by the unfair actions of the banks Global 
Restructuring Group (GRG), particularly its charging of an unreasonable exit fee.
What happened
Mr K and Mr K were property developers. In 2008, they borrowed money from NatWest in 
the form of two year interest only loans to carry out two property developments. 
The loans werent repaid at the end of the two year term and NatWest transferred the 
relationship to the management of first its Specialised Relationship area and later GRG. 
There were various extensions and restructurings of the borrowing. 
In October 2015, the borrowing was repaid, largely from the proceeds of the sale of one of 
the properties. An exit fee of £28,465 was charged. There was a shortfall from the sale, 
which was funded by a loan from another party. 
In 2018, the partnership complained to the banks voluntary GRG review scheme about the 
transfer to GRG, unreasonable repayment demands and unfair fees and interest charged. 
The bank upheld one part of this complaint  regarding the exit fee. NatWest said that, whilst 
it was reasonable to charge a fee, the amount wasnt reasonable and there was no evidence 
of how it was calculated. So the bank refunded it, together with 8% interest. 
The partners accepted this award in settlement of that complaint and submitted a 
consequential loss claim for losses in excess of £2.2 million, primarily arising from losses on 
the property sale and lost profits on other developments. 
The bank declined to assess most of the partnerships claim as it said the claims werent 
based on an upheld complaint. It accepted that the partners would have paid additional 
interest as a result of the exit fee, but said that the 8% interest paid on top of the exit fee had 
already compensated for this loss. It made an offer of £5,500 (plus interest at 8%) in relation 
to professional fees. 
The partners referred their consequential loss claim to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the claim and concluded that the banks offer was fair. 
Mr K and Mr K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at things again. They 
provided some further evidence and made the following points:
The GRG relationship manager (RM) was visiting the property for sale weekly and 
directing that problems be covered up in order to achiever a quicker sale. 
The exit fees werent exit fees, but rather a fine or penalty. The bank had said that 
exit fees were for long term loans, but Mr K and Mr K had short term lending. 
Mr K and Mr K had been wrongly advised by their first advisers to accept the 
outcome of the direct loss complaint. They had also missed out some complaint 
points from their direct loss complaint. 
The bank was in league with the third party that ultimately bought the properties for 
less than they were worth.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint the partners, but Ive reached the same conclusion 
as our investigator, for essentially the same reasons. Ill explain why below. 
First, Mr K and Mr K have made a number of points in response to our investigators opinion. 
But I consider most of these relate to direct losses. It would appear that Mr K and Mr K may 
be dissatisfied with their initial representation and how their direct loss complaint was put to 
the bank. Im afraid these are not matters within my remit. I cannot consider complaint points 
that have not already been put to the bank. And Mr K and Mr K have agreed with the banks 
outcome of their direct loss complaint. This means that everything considered there has 
been settled, so it wouldnt be fair to reopen matters here. 
The starting point of my decision is that Mr K and Mr K should not have paid a £28,465 exit 
fee in 2015. This complaint is now only about the consequences of that unfair fee. I need to 
look at whether the banks charging an exit fee actually caused the consequential losses. 
And if it did, Ill need to ask whether it would be fair to hold the bank responsible for those 
losses. 
In making these assessments, I need to compare what actually happened with whats likely 
to have happened if the bank hadnt charged the fee. In other words, I need to decide, based 
on all available evidence, whats more likely than not to have happened if the fee hadnt 
been charged. 
Property-related losses including lost profits and losses on corrective works
Ive looked carefully at all the losses claimed for. Like our investigator, I cant see that any of 
the losses claimed on the property sale, or on the other developments, can reasonably be 
said to stem from the payment of the unfair exit fee. Neither can I see any reasonable link 
between alternative accommodation costs incurred at the exit fee. I therefore dont think the 
bank needs to do anything more in respect of these losses. 
Interest paid on the residual borrowing 
I am satisfied there is a link between the exit fee and the interest paid on the residual 
borrowing after the bank was repaid. When the bank was repaid, there was a shortfall that 
was funded by a loan from the acquirer of the property. Clearly, had no exit fee been 
charged, or a lower fee been charged, then it follows that the partners would have needed to 
borrow less and therefore would have paid less interest. A consequential loss therefore 
exists in the form of the interest paid on the exit fee. 
The partners have claimed a sum of £2,904.34 for this interest. It isnt clear to me whether 
this amount represents the total interest paid on the residual borrowing or just the amount on 
£28,465. Its my understanding that the partnership had to borrow more than this amount to 
clear the bank, so I dont think all the interest paid was a result of the excessive exit fee. I have considered both parties submissions on the subject of fair compensation for this extra 
interest. The bank argues that the £9,870 of interest it has already paid on the fee should be 
set against this consequential loss. On the other hand, the partners would like me to 
consider this interest entirely separately and argue that the £9,870 covers other separate 
losses. 
The £9,870 was calculated on the basis of simple interest at 8% on the exit fee from the date 
of payment of the fee. This is a similar approach to compensation to the one our service 
adopts to compensate for the loss of access to funds. In principle, I think it is reasonable to 
apply this logic in the circumstances here. I would have considered a higher payment, but 
only if there was evidence that a higher amount of interest had been paid to the acquirer on 
the £28,465. No evidence of this has been provided and it seems unlikely that it exceeded 
£9,870. My conclusion is therefore that the bank has done enough to compensate for this 
additional interest. 
Distress caused by the bank
The partners have also claimed for distress suffered as a result of the bank charging default 
interest and the way it managed the partnerships accounts. I dont doubt that this was a 
stressful period for the partners. But as I have explained, I can only consider losses resulting 
from the upheld claim regarding the exit fee. I dont think the exit fee itself, coming as it did at 
the end of the borrowing, caused this distress. Indeed, the partners themselves have argued 
that it arose out of the banks treatment of them over a prolonged period. So I dont think the 
bank was unfair not to uphold this part of the consequential loss claim. 
Professional fees
In accordance with its published approach, the bank has paid £2,000 plus VAT towards the 
initial legal costs to investigate the partnerships consequential loss claim. It has also offered 
£5,500 plus 8% interest towards other professional costs, including £3,000 for accountants 
fees and £2,500 towards the legal costs of preparing the direct loss complaint. 
The partners initially claimed £13,177 in total for professional fees (in addition to the £2,000 
already paid). Since then, the partners current legal representatives say they have accrued 
a further £7,183 of fees. In total, therefore, the bank has paid or offered some £8,513 
including interest, against a total amount claimed of around £22,800. 
I note that at least £2,604 of the additional £7,183 I am asked to take into consideration 
comprises costs incurred in referring the complaint to our service. We do not normally award 
fees incurred in bringing a complaint to us, because we dont think its necessary to have 
legal representation to use our service. I dont think there are any particular features of this 
complaint, which would make it fair to deviate from this approach. 
Although the partnerships complaint covers a long time period, the arguments are not 
particularly complex and are well understood by the partners. It was their choice to have 
legal representation and I dont think it would be fair to expect the bank to reimburse them 
for this in full. 
Ive thought about these costs carefully, and on balance, I dont intend to require the bank to 
pay anything further. I say this because I dont think legal representation was necessary in 
order to make the partners complaint. Im also mindful that only a relatively small amount of 
the direct loss complaint was upheld and none of the consequential loss claim has been 
upheld. 
Mr K and Mr K should contact the bank direct if they now wish to accept its offer in relation to professional fees.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint . 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman