DRN-2117536
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC treated him badly because of the COVID 
19 restrictions and then closed his account when he complained.
What happened
Mr G visited a local branch on 22 June 2020. The branch had put in place safeguards to 
protect customers and staff from the COVID 19 virus. In particular, it had asked customers to 
keep two metres from each other when queuing. 
Mr G was unhappy that there were five counters but only was open. He said, instead of 
serving customers, staff were spending their time directing them where to go and making 
sure they stuck to the two- metre rule. He asked if they could open other counters but was 
told they couldnt.
Mr G said a member of staff then pointed out that he was not observing the two-metre rule 
and asked him to step back from the customer in front. He disagreed and replied that he was 
three metres away. He said the customer in front wasnt worried and was laughing with him. 
He said the staff member was rude and disrespectful to him. He asked for the staff 
members name so that he could make a complaint and he asked to see the manager but 
someone else came to see him.
He rang Barclays to raise a complaint later the same day.
The next day he received a letter notifying him that Barclays would be closing his account in 
sixty days because of his behaviour. He called Barclays again to complain about the 
decision to close his account and he asked it to get the CCTV footage from the local branch. 
Barclays didnt respond.
Mr G didnt think Barclays had treated him fairly, so he asked this service to investigate. He 
told us that he thought that Barclays safeguards were ridiculous, and its staff didnt have the 
power to talk to customers like that. He said they made him feel as if he were a child. He 
expected an apology but instead Barclays told him it was closing his account. He believes 
Barclays are knowingly trying to upset people. The incident has upset him and caused him 
stress.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but he didnt recommend upholding it because 
there was evidence of an incident in October 2018 when he had behaved aggressively 
towards staff in another local branch. Following this incident, Barclays had written to him 
warning him that it would close his account if he repeated the behaviour. 
Barclays said he repeated his abusive behaviour in branch on 22 June 2020 by refusing to 
follow the two-metre rule and calling a staff member stupid.
The investigator concluded that Barclays were entitled to close his account because of his 
behaviour and this decision was made in line with the terms and conditions of his account.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view and so this case has come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I agree with the investigators conclusions and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Ive read the notes from Barclays. They record that Mr G had refused to follow the two-metre 
social distancing rule on two occasions in the same branch  in May 2020 and again on 22 
June 2020 when, it said, he got into an argument over the rule, was rude to staff and called 
one of them stupid.  According to the notes he told it that:
the social distancing requirement is not law and he doesnt have to comply with it
COVID 19 is a scam for the government to control people
its younger staff were overzealous in applying the rule and showed no respect for 
their elders.
In May 2020, the government issued guidance for shops and branches on how to keep 
workers and customers safe during the COVID 19 pandemic. Businesses were asked to 
carry out COVID 19 risk assessments, as part of health and safety law, to protect staff and 
customers. The two-metre social distancing rule was included in the guidance as one of the 
safeguards. However, the risk assessment also required businesses to consider, amongst 
other things, the movement and flow of customers through its premises and to reduce face 
to face contact for staff.
So, although the two-metre rule wasnt law, it was strongly recommended that businesses 
adopt it and other appropriate safeguards. How businesses did this was entirely within their 
discretion. Practices wouldve varied from one business to another according to their own 
risk assessments. However, all major high street businesses adopted the two-metre rule. 
Barclays also owe a duty of care towards its staff to minimise their risk of exposure to the 
virus, even if this means closing a number of counters. It was within the managers discretion 
how he assigned duties to the staff, after having completed a risk assessment. If customers 
continue to receive a service, then its not my role as an ombudsman to interfere with 
decisions on operational and staffing matters.
I dont consider, therefore, that Barclays acted unreasonably by closing most of its counters 
or when it asked Mr G to make sure he was two metres away from the customer in front. 
Neither Barclays nor Mr G have said whether there were any markings or other signage in 
the branch. Its possible the staff member was mistaken but theres no harm in politely 
reminding a customer about the rule, even if they cant enforce it. 
Mr G didnt have to agree with the safeguards, although he says he was keeping his 
distance. Equally, I dont expect a business to close an account simply because a customer 
complained about social distancing or objected to it  even if their objection appears 
unreasonable. The public differ in their views on how the virus should be managed and are 
entitled to express their opinions respectfully and politely and without fear that a service will 
be withdrawn.However, I dont consider that Barclays closed Mr Gs account because he expressed an 
opinion on the COVID 19 safeguards or failed to follow the rule. Barclays says it closed his 
account because he was rude and abusive to its staff. I note Mr G said the staff member in 
branch on 22 June 2020 was himself rude and overzealous. These are unprecedented times 
and staff and customers nerves are bound to be frayed but thats no excuse for rudeness, if 
indeed he was.  However, Barclays version of events is consistent with his previous 
behaviour, albeit two years ago, when he was aggressive to staff in another branch after he 
was challenged about taking coins in a money bag. Based on the earlier incident, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr G was rude to staff on 22 June 2020 and that it was he who 
started the argument in branch. 
The terms and conditions for the account state that Barclays can close an account or end a 
service by giving a customer at least two months notice if it reasonably believes that a 
customer has behaved in a threatening or abusive manner to staff. In 2018, Barclays wrote 
to Mr G warning him about his behaviour in branch His behaviour in June 2020 was 
consistent with his earlier behaviour in that he reacted angrily to a question or instruction. 
Hed already been warned about his behaviour. Barclays was entitled, therefore, to close Mr 
Gs account, as long as it gave him sixty days notice, which it did.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr G, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman