DRN-2446659
The complaint
Mr K brings this complaint on behalf of himself and the estate of the late Mrs K; they 
previously held a joint mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax from the 1980s 
onwards. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax in this decision.
What happened
Mr K says he was mis-sold mortgage Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) in what we now 
know was 1988. He implies he doesnt recall agreeing to the policy or it being explained 
properly, and that his and the late Mrs Ks circumstances were such that it simply wasnt a 
product that was needed. He thinks Halifax was wrong to sell the product.
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr K with an answer about this complaint. 
They said that they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Im aware, however, that Halifax has 
agreed to give back some money for part of the commission element it received from selling 
the PPI. This offer is in accordance with recently introduced rules from the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
Mr K disagrees with this outcome because he still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first 
place. He has asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided 
not to uphold the mis-sale complaint.
I can see Mr K has experienced a difficult journey with his complaint. It seems he was 
originally told by the business that no PPI could be found in his name and it required Mr K to 
research his own records to find it. I accept this will have been frustrating for him, but I do 
think its important to remember that this sale is from 32 years ago. Nevertheless, Id like to 
assure him now Ive looked very carefully at everything hes put forward and I fully 
understand the points being made.
Whilst I also dont doubt Mr K may genuinely and honestly believe now that the PPI was mis-
sold Im afraid Ive seen solid evidence that shows Mr K and the late Mrs K were 
reorganising their financial affairs and that the PPI policy was taken out in his name at the 
same time. The evidence, in my view, is strong that Halifax obtained the appropriate consent 
to add PPI and that Mr K fully agreed to this. I think there were discussions about the cover 
and that letters and sale documents Ive seen from May and July 1988 all strongly point to a 
PPI policy entitled Halifax Mortgage Payment Protector being sold after a postal application 
from Mr K.
In my view, the evidence is therefore both comprehensive and compelling that Mr K agreed 
to the policy at the time. I note he himself also produced a mortgage statement from the 
1990s which he correctly points out contains a description of the PPI. All this leads me to 
conclude that the PPI was something Mr K asked for and he was probably comfortable with 
having for some years. I think the policy was portrayed as optional, and he agreed to buy it.
As a postal application, I think its more likely this was a non-advised sale where the 
decision about PPI was one for Mr K to make. But I also accept this was all a long time ago. 
Ultimately though, I dont think this issue matters, because the policy was suitable anyway. 
I say this because he seems to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. He may well already have had some 
sickness protection with his job, and I recognise this would have been generous cover 
because of the type of job he did. But this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt suitable 
for him. I think the mortgage would have been a significant and long-term financial 
commitment and secured against his home. So, the consequences of not being able to 
make the repayments could have been serious. The PPI cover, on the other hand, was 
designed to pay a substantial monthly sum for up to 24 months if hed needed to claim. So, 
Halifax putting forward a PPI policy for him to consider wasnt unfair.
Mr K also mentions extensive points about his financial circumstances of the time. Im not 
going to list everything hes told us about, but again, Ive noted everything he has said with 
care. In summary, he had shares, savings and other forms of insurance which he says 
made the PPI unsuitable. However, I dont agree. Given the type of product being insured, I 
dont find the PPI incompatible with also having other financial reserves in place. I think the 
evidence shows Mr K was interested in protecting his income and being able to pay his 
mortgage in the event of something unexpected happening.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. We no 
longer have all the actual paperwork available in respect of Mr Ks PPI sale, but I think the 
cost, who was covered and what they were covered for, were all known to him and Halifax 
did not have a duty to tell Mr K about other PPI options available to him, as hes implied. 
Overall, I think he had enough information on which to make an informed choice.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr K and I recognise the effort hes put into bringing this 
complaint to our service. But these events are from a long time ago and to uphold his 
complaint Id need to think it was more likely he never gave his consent or that there were 
other serious flaws in the sale. I simply dont have that evidence. I think its much more 
likely he tailored the cover to suit his needs of the time and he had a lot of documentation 
explaining this. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not direct Bank of Scotland plc to do anything more to put matters right. 
I understand an offer has already been made in respect of the commission element, as I 
explained at the beginning. Halifax should pay Mr K and the estate of Mrs K in respect of 
this.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and the 
estate of Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman