DRN-3387877
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the charges Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Mitsubishi) applied, 
when she handed back a car she acquired under a hire agreement.
Mrs W has been represented. For clarity, Ill only refer to Mrs W throughout this decision.
What happened
In March 2018, Mrs W entered into a three-year hire agreement to acquire a brand-new car. 
In March 2021, Mrs W called Mitsubishi as she had received a letter about outstanding 
arrears. At the time, Mitsubishi told her the outstanding arrears were £4,333.34. In later 
conversations, it said a payment of £3,939.40 was required to settle the account. So Mrs W 
paid this amount. In April 2021, Mrs W received an arrears letter stating she needed to pay 
£393.34. Unhappy with this, Mrs W complained to Mitsubishi.
Following this, the car was collected on 19 April 2021 by Mitsubishis recovery agents  who 
Ill refer to as B. B issued a report on the condition Mrs Ws car when it collected it. It said the 
following damage, totalling £1,140, was outside of fair wear and tear:
1. Right quarter panel  dent - £175
2. Right back post dent - £60
3. Left front alloy wheel  scuffed - £65
4. Left front door  dent - £175
5. Left back post  dent - £60
6. Left sill panel  scratched - £140
7. Left rear door  chips - £140
8. Left quarter panel  dent - £175
9. Right front wing  scratched - £75
10. Right centre post  scratched - £75
In May 2021, Mrs W made a further complaint to Mitsubishi. She said the damage identified 
by B should be considered as fair wear and tear.
Mitsubishi issued its response to Mrs Ws complaint in July 2021. It said when it had 
provided information about the final payment amount, it did this in good faith that the final 
rental payment would be paid. But as the Direct Debit was declined, the final rental payment 
remained outstanding.
It also issued a separate response to Mrs Ws complaint about the damage charges. It said 
following Mrs Ws complaint, it removed the charge for the left quarter panel and reduced the 
charges for the left front and rear doors to £75 for each door. This left a balance of £800. It 
said following further comments received from Mrs W, it removed the charges for the right 
back post, left back post, right centre post, the right quarter panel and right front wing. So the 
outstanding balance was £355. It said these charges had been applied correctly in line with 
the industry standard - The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Associations (BVRLA) fair 
wear and tear guidelines.
As Mrs W was unhappy, she referred her complaint to this service. She said due to the 
impact of Covid-19, she had missed a couple of payments under her agreement. She said 
she cancelled the Direct Debit because Mitsubishi told her to. And she said she was 
unhappy that Mitsubishi said she still owed one more rental payment after she had paid the 
settlement amount. She was also unhappy about the remaining damage charges Mitsubishi 
were pursuing her for.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought Mitsubishi had told Mrs W that she 
owed £4,333.34 in arrears. She said it wrote to Mrs W in March 2021 and confirmed this was 
the amount owed. And so she thought Mitsubishi was entitled to pursue Mrs W for the final 
instalment. 
With regards to the damage charges, our investigator thought the charges for the left front 
alloy wheel, left sill panel and left front door were applied fairly in line with the BVRLA 
guidance. But she thought the charge for the left rear door should be removed. She also said 
that because Mrs W complained a number of times about the damage charges, this caused 
distress and inconvenience to Mrs W and so, Mitsubishi should pay Mrs W £75 in 
recognition of this.
Mitsubishi agreed. But Mrs W said she thought it was unfair that Mitsubishi were charging for 
damage that she could have repaired for cheaper. Our investigator didnt think the charges 
Mitsubishi had applied were excessive and said Mrs W hadnt mitigated her loss as she had 
an opportunity to repair the damage before returning the car, but didnt do so.
As Mrs W remains in disagreement, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the 
first leasing cycle. 
What I need to decide in this case is whether it is fair for Mitsubishi to pursue Mrs W for the 
final instalment payment and whether it has fairly applied the damage charges to the areas 
of damage identified by B. If it didnt, Ill need to think about whats fair to put things right.
Final instalment payment
Mrs W says its unfair for Mitsubishi to ask her to pay the final instalment amount after she 
had already paid the outstanding arrears. Ive seen a copy of an email that was sent to     
Mrs W on 12 March 2021. The email confirms that 11 payments have been missed under 
the hire agreement between 1 April 2020 and 1 March 2021. It confirms the outstanding 
arrears total £4,333.34. So I think Mitsubishi clearly told Mrs W she owed £4,333.34 of 
arrears under the agreement when it sent her this email.
However, following this, when Mrs W called Mitsubishi in late March 2021, Mitsubishi told 
Mrs W that a payment of £3,939.40 was due to clear the arrears. This was correct at the 
time as the amount didnt include the final instalment payment due on 1 April 2021. But the 
final instalment amount wasnt received by Mitsubishi in April 2021.
Whilst, I can understand why Mrs W would have been unhappy to receive an arrears notice 
for the final instalment payment of £393.34, given she thought she had settled the arrears, 
Im satisfied she owes this amount under the agreement. This is because under the terms of 
the agreement, Mrs W agreed to pay one rental of £1,181.81 followed by 35 rentals of £393.94. Before Mrs W paid the arrears, she had paid the initial rental of £1,181.81 and 24 
monthly rentals. When Mrs W paid the £3,939.40, this represented 10 monthly rentals. So 
after this payment was made, Mrs W had paid the initial rental and 34 rentals under the 
agreement. But as her agreement says she needed to make the initial rental payment 
followed by 35 monthly rentals, she still owes one monthly payment under the agreement. 
And so, given Mrs W agreed to the terms of the agreement, Mitsubishi is entitled to recover 
the final instalment amount from Mrs W.
Alloy damage
In relation to alloys, BVRLA guidance says: 
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable.
Ive looked at the photograph provided by B for the front left alloy where damage was 
identified. The photograph provided shows damage and scuffing exceeding 50mm. This has 
been measured with a ruler which is shown in the photograph. The scuffing can also be seen 
in the photographs Mrs W has provided.
In light of this, Im satisfied Mitsubishi is entitled to charge Mrs W for the damage to the alloy 
as it falls outside of fair wear and tear.
Left front door
Bs condition report identified a dent in the left front door. In relation to dents, the BVRLA 
guidance says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken Dents on the roof or on the swage line of any 
panel are not acceptable.
Ive looked at the photograph provided by B for the dent it identified in the left front door. I 
cant see the dent in the pictures provided by Mrs W, as the photographs provided dont 
focus on this area of damage. Having reviewed Bs image, I think the dent is less than 
15mm. However, the dent is on the swage line of the panel. And so Im satisfied Mitsubishi is 
entitled to charge Mrs W for this damage.
Left sill panel
Bs condition report identified that the left sill panel was scratched. In relation to scratches, 
the BVRLA guidance says:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches on one 
panel is acceptable.
Scratches on treads, sills and seals that reflect normal use are acceptable. 
The photograph provided by B shows a number of scratches which measure over 50mm. 
The primer and bare metal are also showing. Mrs W hasnt provided a photograph to show 
this area of damage. Given the scratches measure more than 50mm and the primer and 
bare metal is showing, I dont think this reflects normal use. And so Im satisfied Mitsubishi is 
entitled to charge Mrs W for the damage identified to the left sill panel.
Cost of the repairsMrs W says the cost of the repairs is excessive and she could have had the repairs carried 
out cheaper. However, Im satisfied Mrs W was provided with the opportunity to have the 
repairs carried out independently whilst she was in possession of the car. As she didnt 
exercise her right to do this, I think Mitsubishi is entitled to charge for the damage at the rate 
its charged.
Having said this, I acknowledge that Mrs W complained to Mitsubishi about the damage 
charges on a couple of occasions. This resulted in the charges being reduced initially and 
then again, following a further complaint from Mrs W. I accept this would have likely caused 
Mrs W some inconvenience given she had to complain a number of times and her 
complaints led to a number of the charges being removed. But I think the £75 Mitsubishi has 
agreed to pay for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc should do the following, if it hasnt 
already, in full and final settlement of Mrs Ws complaint:
Remove the £75 charge applied for the left rear door damage from the outstanding 
amount Mrs W owes for the damages: and
pay Mrs W £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman