DRN-3712557
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about the non-disclosure of charges on his With Profits ISA held with
Wesleyan Assurance Society (Wesleyan). He says he wasnt made aware of all of the
charges when he received advice from Wesleyan. He would like a refund for the additional
fund charges made since the inception of the plan in excess of 1.2% as well as
compensation for his time and the stress incurred.
What happened
In July 2018 Mr J met with a Wesleyan financial consultant. He has said that in response to 
his queries about charges he was told that in addition to a set-up fee of 3%, an ongoing 
annual management charge (AMC) of 1.2% would apply. There wasnt mention of any 
additional charges. Mr J held £53,140 in a cash ISA with another provider and after the 
meeting he decided to transfer those funds into the Wesleyan With Profits ISA.
In October 2020 Mr J contacted Wesleyan as he was concerned about the charges showing 
on his annual statement of approximately 1.4% including ongoing advice service (OAS) and 
the ongoing advice charge (OAC), which didnt apply to his account. He sought clarification 
of the AMC and was advised it was 1.2%. Mr J raised a complaint.
On 12 November Mr J received a replacement statement which did not include the OAC, 
but the fund charges had increased to around 1.6%. He phoned to raise a further 
complaint and was told the charges would be checked.
Mr J was advised during a subsequent call on 16 November 2020 confirming the AMC was 
1.2% but that additional charges were also applied. He was made aware the reoccurring 
charges percentage included the Wesleyan Financial Services (WFS) fee. He then raised 
a complaint as he wasnt made aware of these additional of sale. He wasnt satisfied with 
the response and it was escalated.
Mr J says Wesleyan have failed to justify why the charges were not disclosed and 
questioned the point of specifying a defined AMC of 1.2% when unspecified and 
unlimited administration charges can be added.
Mr J said he had been told by Wesleyan that earlier statements had not been as 
transparent but following legislation changes in 2018 charges now had to be shown and 
be quantified.
He assumed that at the time of taking out the plan these additional admin charges 
were effectively hidden and deducted before declaring the fund value and then 
deducting the 1.2% AMC.
In its response to Mr Js complaint Wesleyan wrote to him on 3 December 2020. It said:
It confirmed that in error incorrect charges werent included in the initial 
statement, but the charges shown in the amended statement were correct.
The WFS fee had always been applied and had been included in Mr Js 2019 
statement in the product and fund management charges section but was not 
as transparent. That transparency came about because of mandatory 
changes in October 2018.
It paid a fee to WFS each year for the provision of administration services. The 
service fee wasnt a direct charge for With Profits policyholders. And, although the 
service fee is not a direct charge for With Profits policyholders, the With Profits 
Fund shares in Society [Wesleyan] profits and losses, this fee has led to reduced 
returns on the fund. Therefore, the Society has shown this fee on annual 
statements in the charges section.
Other business profits which were not shown on the annual statement had 
been allocated to the With Profits fund during the period and were worth 
+0.7% which exceeded the allocated WFS costs of 0.4%. There was also a 
1% mutual bonus added to the policy values on 1 September 2020.
The AMC had always been 1.2% if the customer had not opted into the OAS 
and 1.7% if they did.
In conclusion, Mr Js complaint about the AMC wasnt upheld. The WFS fee had 
always been applied albeit not as transparent as in the 2019 statement. The 
complaint was upheld in respect of the first annual statement not being correct 
and for Mr J not receiving further information about his query when he first 
contacted Wesleyan. £50 was offered for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr J.
Mr J commented that it was of little value knowing an AMC of 1.2% was made if Wesleyan 
was then able to make additional unquantified charges each year as it saw fit.
On 7 January 2021 Wesleyan responded again. It said that although the document 
provided didnt state the WFS fee specifically, that particular charge had always fallen 
under the other product charges section of his statement but that that year Wesleyan 
thought it necessary to include the charge in more detail. The KFD document was quoted 
as saying;
We (Wesleyan Assurance Society) collect charges from your With Profits ISA 
to cover our costs in managing your account and investments. If you have 
received advice from Wesleyan Financial Service (WFS) about your investment 
or you are opted into their Ongoing Advice Service (OAS), part of the charges 
we collect will also cover the costs of these services. We will take
the necessary charges from your account and pay them to WFS.
Mr J replied on 7 January. He said that his fundamental complaint hadnt been addressed, 
namely that he wasnt advised of any charges in addition to the AMC. The KFD he had, 
and the right to cancel letter of 6 August 2018, didnt indicate any other charges than the 
AMC of 1.2% and didnt include the paragraph Ive quoted above. He went onto say that 
while Wesleyan had explained the details of the charges, no evidence had been provided 
to confirm that any of the documentation he had received indicated that these charges 
were in addition to the AMC. And that being the case, then his complaint should be 
upheld. All of the charges that had been highlighted to him would reasonably be expected 
to be included within the category of the AMC.
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought that it should be upheld. He said:From his review he had concluded that the WFS service fee was an additional 
fee which was taken out of the underlying value of Mr Js investment. It formed 
part of the Product and Fund Charges which was in addition to the AMC.
He couldnt see the WFS service fee was explicitly described anywhere other than 
the How the With Profits Fund Works Document where it said The charges we 
deduct from your policy pay for costs such as the following: Those we incur in 
administering policies. And Wesleyan had said The WFS fee falls under the 
section of the profits and losses from other areas of the business and is a fee for 
the provision of administration services.
While the How the With Profits Fund Works Document stated there were service 
fees too, this point wasnt clear from the illustration or the suitability letter. That 
document could be referring to costs that were already included within the AMC 
charge of 1.2% as the illustration said the AMC was the amount that is taken for 
the cost of running the plan.
The investigator concluded that Mr J hadnt been able to make an informed 
decision and that Mr J would have acted differently had he known there were other 
charges in addition to the 1.2% AMC.
To put things right the investigator thought Wesleyan should refund the total WFS 
service fee that was deducted from Mr Js ISA since inception plus interest at a 
rate of 8%. But now that Mr J was aware of those additional costs Wesleyan could 
impose those charges as the illustration for the ISA stated Wesleyan could change 
its charges at any time. As a result, Wesleyan wouldnt be acting unfairly as those 
costs were a business decision.
The investigator recommended an additional £50 be awarded for the stress 
and inconvenience Mr J had been caused.
Wesleyan didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
The WFS charge was Wesleyan Assurance Society paying Wesleyan Financial 
Services a fee for administration services. The WFS charge was not a policy 
charge which is why it was not specifically shown on the policy illustrations. It 
wasnt a direct charge to With Profits policyholders but as the With Profit fund 
shares in the Wesleyan Assurance Societys profits and losses, it had led to 
reduced returns on the fund. The WFS charge isnt paid for directly by 
policyholders, its a loss to the  fund.
It went on to say, As confirmed previously, this was a change in rules regarding 
businesses disclosing losses, so the Society decided to display the WFS charges 
on Annual Statements. While we started disclosing the WFS charge in 2019, it 
has always been applied where a loss has occurred. Due to confusion it caused 
our customers, we have decided to remove it from the statements.
It commented that a similar complaint previously brought to this service hadnt 
been upheld by the investigator. It asked for the case to be decided by an 
ombudsman.
In response Mr J made some comments for my consideration. He said:
The adviser didnt mention the WFS fee and Wesleyan hadnt demonstrated he 
had been made aware of the charges. It was now stating they were not a charge 
but the sharing of a loss.The fact that Wesleyan had said the inclusion of the charge on its statements 
had caused confusion would suggest it had received other complaints from its 
consumers.
He didnt think that Wesleyans reaction to that confusion  to remove the 
charges from statements was treating consumers fairly.
He didnt see that Wesleyan having a complaint in its favour by this service had 
any relevance to his complaint.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision explaining that I intended on upholding the complaint and detailed 
how the matter should be put right but I asked both parties to give me anything further 
they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
Wesleyan has referred to another complaint about its charges considered by this 
service and that complaint wasnt upheld. I should make clear that we consider each 
case on its own particular merits in the individual circumstances of that complaint. 
So, in this decision Im only considering Mr Js complaint about what he was told 
about the charges when he invested with Wesleyan.
Despite the detailed background to Mr Js complaint the crux of it is quite 
straightforward  Mr J wasnt told about any charges over and above the AMC 
charge of 1.2% at the point of sale. Mr J is extremely unhappy he has incurred 
additional charges which he only became aware of when Wesleyan included them 
within his annual statements as a result of regulatory changes.
When bringing his complaint to us, Mr J has been very specific about his 
recollections from the time of the sale. He told us he had concerns about charges 
that would be incurred as the money he was going to invest was coming from a 
standard building society cash ISA. Mr J has been consistent with this point and I 
am persuaded that at the time of the sale this would have been something he paid 
particular attention to.
And I also note that Mr J didnt want the ongoing advice service as confirmed in the 
suitability letter You have made your decision because you felt that you did not 
wish to pay additional annual management charges and pay this additional 0.50% 
for ongoing advice. This suggests to me that Mr J was conscious about keeping 
costs to a minimum for this investment.
Charging structures for With Profits policies can be complicated. We asked Wesleyan 
for further information about the charges incurred.
It told us that prior to 2019 the fund had been paying back a debt. Therefore, it said 
that With Profits policyholders would have paid their AMC and then had an additional 
reduction to returns. After 2019 the debt had been repaid and the AMC covered the 
cost of the expenses incurred by the fund. It confirmed the WFS charge was taken in 
the unit price and was not an explicit charge  just a dampening of the fund 
performance.
And Wesleyan had previously explained the WFS fee fell under the section of 
profits and losses from other areas of the business and was a fee for the 
provision of administration services. The fee was a cost applied to the fund itself.While I havent seen anything to make me think Wesleyan has done anything 
untoward and was entitled to do this, I dont think it was transparent with Mr J at the 
point of sale about the costs he could.
Wesleyan has referred to the information Mr J was given at the point of sale and 
said that the KFD document didnt include all the terms and conditions or every 
potential charge or expense. It said this additional detail was to be found within the 
terms and conditions or the Principles and Practices of Financial Management on 
its website, With Profits - Detailed Guides Wesleyan.co.uk. It referred to section 4, 
page 21 of the document.
But I cant see that Mr J was given this document. And equally I wouldnt have 
expected for him to have to have read through this 33-page document in order for 
it to have been given an answer in response to a straightforward question, namely, 
what he would be charged.
And while I accept there may have been additional costs that were unknown at the 
outset I think Mr J should have been made aware this was a possibility and that 
those charges could have been over and above the 1.2% AMC, which he understood 
to be the only charge he would incur.
I think Mr J was clear in his own mind that he wanted to keep costs to a minimum, 
sought out this information and relied on what he was told by the adviser and seen 
in the point of sale documents. And I think the fact that Mr J is so dissatisfied  and 
has been consistently  with the additional charges that he is now aware of, lends 
weight to this point.
The investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld. He recommended 
that any WFS charges Mr J had incurred should be repaid to him plus interest at a 
rate of 8%. He also thought that now Mr J was aware of those charges, and 
Wesleyan was entitled to change its charges, that it was for Mr J to decide whether 
to continue you with the ISA or look to do something differently. He also 
recommended that Mr J be paid £50 for the stress and inconvenience he had been 
caused.
However, I dont think this is the correct outcome. When this service looks to put a 
complaint right, the aim is to put the complainant in as close to the position they 
would have been in but for the error. And by returning to Mr J the charges he has 
incurred over and above the AMC would mean putting him in a position hed 
unlikely to have ever been in.
And on the basis that I dont think Mr J would have invested if he had been made 
aware of the additional charges to the fund, then I need to put him in the position 
he would be in if he hadnt invested.
I outlined how Wesleyan should put the matter right by comparing the performance of the 
fund with a benchmark split half between the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index and half with the average rated from fixed rate bonds. I also said Wesleyan 
should pay Mr J £50 for the stress and inconvenience he had been caused. 
Wesleyan replied disagreeing with my provisional decision. It said;
It didnt feel the judgment was fair and reasonable.The Financial Ombudsman had considered cases which had the same complaint 
point where it had agreed with Wesleyan and this case wasnt essentially different.
Its customers werent informed of any further charges when taking out plans as this 
was not an explicit charge, but a dampening of the fund performance. Policy 
holders might not always experience a loss in performance so it couldnt predict 
the deductions each year when setting up a plan as some year there may be no 
reductions. Customers were provided with a leaflet explaining how with funds 
profits worked and also directed to its website where this could be viewed.
In response Mr J said he was happy with the overall outcome but didnt agree with the 
compensation;
When he took out the plan, he accepted a higher level of risk in return for
    potentially higher returns taking into consideration fund charges. The investment       
return on the plan isnt relevant to his complaint and doesnt have a bearing on the 
level of compensation paid in respect of the non-disclosure of charges.
He thought it better for him to be repaid any additional charges over 1.2% plus 8% 
interest. 
His complaint related solely to the non-disclosure of charges. Any consideration of 
what else he might have done was conjecture.
He had knowingly taken the risk associated with a With Profits fund and while he 
didnt know how that had performed in relation to the benchmark I proposed, he 
shouldnt be penalised should the With Profits fund return be in excess of the 
benchmark. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained that the Financial Ombudsman considers each 
complaint on its own individual merits. Wesleyan may have had what it considers to be 
similar complaints with this service which were found in its favour, but I provisionally 
concluded that in the particular circumstances of Mr Js complaint  regarding the 
information he was given about the charges  that it should be upheld. And Wesleyans 
comments in response to my provisional decision havent caused me to change my mind. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I was satisfied that Mr J was very specific about 
charges he could incur, and he wanted an answer to a relatively straightforward question 
about those charges. 
I dont think he got a sufficiently clear enough answer to have enabled him to have made 
an informed investment decision. And I dont think its right for Wesleyan to provide a 
blanket response that a customer was provided with a leaflet  or similar  that explained 
how the With Profits policy worked, or that policyholders might not always experience a 
loss so any future deductions couldnt be predicted. While I accept that scenario may be 
the case, but Mr J should have been made aware of that fact in response to his 
questions, and I cant see that he was. The funds Mr J was investing into the With Profits fund were coming from a standard 
building society cash ISA and I think its evident Mr J was sensitive to any additional 
charges he may have incurred compared to that account, hence him seeking an answer 
to his question about what the charges were. I remain of the opinion that Wesleyan 
should have done more in making sure he had a clear answer to a straightforward 
question and the complaint should be upheld because of that.
In my provisional decision I concluded that I didnt think Mr J would have invested if he 
had been made aware of the additional charges. Mr J has said his decision to make the 
investment has nothing to do with this complaint which is solely about those charges. But 
I disagree. 
As mentioned above, the funds were coming from a standard building society cash ISA 
and I think Mr J would have been very aware of potential costs he could incur in 
exchange for a hoped for better performance by investing in a With Profits fund. Mr J has 
said it was his decision to choose to expose his funds to a higher risk investment but with 
the potential for a better return. 
However, implicit in that hoped for better performance are the management charges 
and similar  to be paid for the decision making about how to invest the With Profits funds 
assets, offset of risk versus reward and general management etc. And as has been 
highlighted by Wesleyan  the information Mr J wasnt made aware of  the WFS fee fell 
under the section of profits and losses from other areas of the business. So, it seems just 
as likely that Mr J could benefit from those potential profitsfrom other areas of the 
business. 
The charges incurred were all an intrinsic part of investing in that particular With Profits 
fund and the potential upsides and downsides of that plus the other areas of Wesleyans 
business which could have an impact. Quite simply, if Mr J wasnt willing to incur those 
charges  albeit not being told about them at the outset  then it wouldnt be fair for him to 
benefit from the performance of the With Profits fund where the charges incurred are a 
tacit part of the costs in order to achieve that hoped for better return. 
Effectively Mr Js argument is that he should have been able to invest in the With Profits 
fund but without incurring the same charges that other policyholders have had to pay. And 
that simply wouldnt be fair. Ive found that Wesleyan, in this case, didnt clearly answer 
Mr Js question about the costs he would incur. It wasnt made clear to him that additional 
costs could be incurred  either directly or via a dampening of performance 
because of other areas of the business. But, and as I said in my provisional decision, I 
havent seen anything to make me think Wesleyan has done anything untoward and was 
entitled to do this. Its just that this wasnt clearly explained to Mr J. 
My provisional decision concluded in the particular circumstances that it wasnt fair  
where Mr J had been so specific about the costs  for him not to have been given a 
straightforward answer. He invested on the assumption that he would only be paying 
charges of 1.2%. He wasnt aware he could potentially be paying more  whether as a 
direct cost to him or a dampening of the fund performance  so in this case, I dont think 
Wesleyan was transparent with Mr J at the point of sale about the costs he could incur 
and his complaint should be upheld. 
As Ive said, I dont think Mr J wouldve invested in this With Profits fund if he had been 
fully made aware of the charges he could incur. On this basis, I need to put him in as 
close to the position he would be in if he hadnt invested. I think fair compensation should 
be as per below and as outlined in my provisional decision. It is for Mr J to decide whether 
he wants to accept it or otherwise. Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr J 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given a transparent 
answer to his question about the charges.
I think Mr J would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given
Mr J's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Wesleyan do?
To compensate Mr J fairly, Wesleyan must:
Compare the performance of Mr J's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value 
of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Wesleyan should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay Mr J £50 for the stress and inconvenience he has been caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Wesleyan 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
With Profits 
fundStill exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr J wanted Capital growth with a small or moderate risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some 
risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr J's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr J into that position. It does not mean that    
Mr J would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr J could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Js complaint about Wesleyan Assurance Society. 
If Mr J accepts my decision, Wesleyan Assurance Society should pay the amount calculated 
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman