DRN-3024213
The complaint
Mr B complains about the wait times he experienced when trying to call HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
What happened
Mr B holds several accounts with HSBC. In late January 2021, when trying to contact HSBC 
by phone, Mr B says he waited on hold for around 30 minutes on each occasion and was 
unable to speak to anyone. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service, and it was passed to an investigator. As this was 
before HSBC had formally responded to Mr Bs complaint, our investigator asked for further 
information from HSBC directly. 
Having looked at all the information provided, the investigator didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. And she didnt ask it to do anything further
Mr B didnt agree, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has several account holdings with HSBC. He hasnt told us why he was calling HSBC 
or the impact (if any) of not being able to get through to a representative. But he has told us 
that hes unhappy as he attempted several calls and each time he waited on hold for a long 
time, but his calls werent answered. So, this decision solely relates to the call waiting times 
Mr B has mentioned.  
Mr B has told us he waited on hold for around 30 minutes each time he called. HSBC has 
provided information from its call systems from 25 January 2021 to 30 January 2021. Im 
satisfied this shows Mr B accessing its automated phone system on three occasions during 
this period  once on 27 January 2021 and twice on 29 January 2021. And HSBC hasnt 
disputed that the calls didnt connect to a representative before they were terminated. 
While HSBCs records dont show how long Mr B waited on hold, I agree that he called 
several times and Ive no reason to dispute Mr Bs testimony that he waited around 30 
minutes on each occasion.  
But HSBC has explained that calls were taking longer to be answered because of changes 
to the way it works caused by the pandemic. Branches were only open for limited services 
which increased calls to its telephone banking department. And staff were working remotely 
which also impacted on call waiting times. 
So, while I agree Mr B waited much longer than normal and can understand why hes upset, 
I think the delays were caused by issues that were largely outside of HSBCs control. And, 
like the investigator, I think its likely that had Mr B waited longer, his calls would have been 
answered.  
I note Mr B has said that he didnt experience the same issues when calling other 
businesses and that HSBC should get more staff on the phones to help with the demand or 
offer a call back arrangement. But I cant comment on the service provided by other 
businesses or tell HSBC how to run its telephone service  this service is not the regulator. 
But I note HSBC offers a range of contact methods apart from the phone  for example,    
on-line and mobile phone banking which includes a chat service. So, I think there were 
other reasonable alternative ways for Mr B to contact HSBC given he found the call waiting 
times too long.
I can also see Mr B has mentioned that HSBC has paid compensation previously for poor 
customer service. But as the investigator explained, each complaint is reviewed on its own 
merits and not all complaints (even when service levels have fallen below what is generally 
expected) warrant compensation. In this case, while I understand Mr Bs frustration, I cant 
fairly say HSBC did anything significantly wrong that would warrant a compensation 
payment. As a result, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, while I appreciated Mr B will be disappointed, my decision is 
that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman