DRN-3470198
The complaint
Mrs M complains about charges ALD Automotive Ltd (trading as Kia Contract Hire) told her 
to pay when her hire agreement ended.
What happened
In November 2017 Mrs M took out a hire agreement with ALD for a new car. The original 
agreement was for 48 months, but this was extended for an extra three months at Mrs Ms 
request. 
ALD arranged for the car to be collected in February 2022. A week later Mrs M received a 
letter from ALD asking her to pay £825. The breakdown of this charge was as follows:
No service history £640;
Front bumper damage £65;
NSR door damage £120.
Mrs M complained to ALD that these charges werent fair. She said she hadnt been aware 
that she needed to get the car serviced, and that they should have sent her reminders about 
this. She also felt ALD should take into account the cars higher resale value due to her 
having returned it with less mileage than was agreed in the contract. 
ALD agreed to remove the charge for the scratch to the rear door. But they said they were 
unable to make any allowance for the car being returned with less than the maximum 
contractual mileage. They asked Mrs M to pay the remaining charges, totalling £705. 
Our investigator looked at the terms and conditions of the agreement Mrs M had signed and 
the industry standard - the fair wear and tear guidelines published by the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). He thought the charges ALD had applied for the 
missing service history and damage to the front bumper were fair. 
Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to review her case. She said shed only signed one plain 
piece of paper, which had no terms and conditions on it. She felt shed complied with the 
requirements shed been made aware of. Mrs M said shed only done 13,000 miles in the car 
- and that it was in excellent condition apart from minor damage caused by other drivers 
while it was parked. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as 
this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider her complaint about ALD.
I note ALD have cancelled the charge for the scratch to the rear door, so Ill focus on 
whether the charges they applied for the bumper damage and missed services were fair.
 
Bumper Damage
I appreciate Mrs M feels the car was in excellent condition when she returned it, with only 
minor damage. Ive considered whether the damage to the front bumper should be 
regarded as normal wear and tear. 
Mrs M has provided a copy of the hire agreement she signed, which Ive read carefully. Ive 
seen that paragraph 2.5 lists things she was responsible for carrying out at her own 
expense. This includes:
(a) maintain the bodywork and the exterior and interior of the Vehicle in good 
condition, having regard to the age and mileage of the Vehicle. In assessing 
appropriate vehicle condition with regard to age and mileage, Kia Contract Hire 
will use the criteria set out in the definition of Fair Wear and Tear.
The definitions section of the agreement says Fair Wear and Tear means the most 
recent BVRLA guidelines. I consider these guidelines to represent good practice across 
the industry, giving descriptions of what should be considered fair wear and tear when a 
vehicle is returned. 
Ive looked at what the BVRLA guidelines say about damage to bumpers:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches 
on one panel is acceptable.
Ive seen evidence confirming the car was just over four years old and had covered 
around 13,237 miles at the time of the inspection. So Ive also thought about whats fair 
and reasonable for a car of this age and mileage.
ALD have provided a copy of the inspection report that was completed when the car was 
collected, including photos taken at the time. The photos show a ruler placed near to the 
damaged area on the corner of the front bumper. Ive seen there were a number of 
scratches in that area - at least two of which were well in excess of 25mm. 
Im satisfied the damage to the front bumper fell outside the BVRLA guidelines for 
acceptable wear and tear. And I consider it fair for ALD to charge Mrs M £65 for this 
damage.
Missing Service History
Mrs M says ALD should have done more to highlight and remind her about the requirement 
to service the car regularly, because she hadnt been aware of this. She says the document 
she signed was just a blank sheet with no terms and conditions on it. Ive considered the 
point shes made here. 
Ive seen that the first page of the agreement Mrs M signed on 24 November 2017 is mostly 
blank, with a customer signature box at the bottom. But I note Mrs Ms signature appears 
underneath the words:
This is a Hire Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if 
you want to be legally bound by its terms.So, although there were no terms and conditions on the page Mrs M signed, Im satisfied 
that she should have been aware there were terms and conditions she was legally bound 
to comply with. And Mrs M has sent us a copy of these terms and conditions herself  so 
Im satisfied these were provided to her and she was aware of them.
Ive reviewed the rest of paragraph 2.5 to see what other things Mrs M was responsible for 
under the agreement. Ive seen this includes:
(f) ensure that the vehicle is serviced promptly at the correct servicing intervals and in 
accordance with the manufacturers applicable service schedule and 
recommendations contained in the manufacturers handbook, which has been 
supplied to the customer and which must be stamped by the appropriate servicing 
agent and so that any manufacturers warranty in respect of the vehicle or any part 
of equipment fitted to the vehicles is maintained in accordance with the provisions 
of that warranty.
I consider this to be in line with the BVRLA guidelines, which include very similar 
expectations about the need for regular servicing and service records. 
Having reviewed the photos included in the inspection report, I can see there was a 
booklet in the car labelled warranty information and service record. The photos show this 
booklet made it clear that the car needed to be serviced every 12 months or 10,000 miles, 
whichever came sooner. 
Im satisfied that the servicing requirements were clearly set out in the agreement Mrs M 
signed and the service record booklet supplied with the car. I think it was reasonable to 
expect the car to need some kind of servicing or maintenance during the four-year period 
Mrs M had it. So if she wasnt sure who was responsible for servicing, I think this was 
something she should have looked into. I dont consider it reasonable to expect ALD to 
send Mrs M reminders about servicing each year. 
The evidence Ive seen shows the car was due to be serviced in 2018, 2019, 2020 and 
2021. Im satisfied that it was Mrs Ms responsibility to have the car serviced at her own 
expense  and Ive seen nothing to show any servicing was carried out. 
The agreement makes it clear Mrs M would be responsible to pay the cost borne by ALD if 
her failure to have the car serviced at the correct intervals devalued it. Im aware that 
service history affects a cars resale value. So I dont think ALD have acted unreasonably 
by charging Mrs M £160 for each of the four missed services, totalling £640. 
Its worth noting here that if Mrs M had been reminded to have the services carried out, 
then she wouldve had to pay out for these  which she didnt do. So, either way, I havent 
seen anything to show shes at a financial loss here. 
Mileage
Ive seen that the agreement allowed for a maximum of 24,000 miles within the original 
48-month hire period. The photos in the inspection report confirm the car had only 
travelled around 13,237 miles when ALD collected it, after 51 months.I appreciate Mrs M feels the cars resale value would potentially be higher due to the 
relatively low mileage  and that ALD should make an allowance for this.  But Ive seen no 
provision in the agreement for any allowance to be made if Mrs M returned the car with less 
than the maximum permitted mileage. Although I appreciate Mrs M finds this frustrating, I 
dont consider ALD to have treated her unfairly here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman