DRN-3694580
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited (Shepherds Friendly) unfairly 
declined his claim and avoided his policy.
What happened
Mr S applied for an income protection policy with Shepherds Friendly on 6 December 2021. 
His application was successful and on 1 March 2022 he submitted a claim. 
Mr S told Shepherds Friendly hed been unable to work since 1 February 2022 because hed 
been unwell with anxiety and fibromyalgia since 17 January 2022. 
As part of assessing his claim, Shepherds Friendly requested copies of Mr Ss GP medical 
records. But having reviewed them it said information regarding knee pain and a referral to 
an MSK (musculoskeletal) team hadnt been disclosed at the time of application. 
Shepherds Friendly said it wouldnt have accepted Mr Ss application had that information 
been disclosed. Rather, it would have awaited the outcome of Mr Ss referral and any 
diagnosis regarding his knee symptoms before deciding whether to accept his application. 
So, as it said cover would not have been offered at the time, Shepherds Friendly made the 
decision to decline Mr Ss claim, avoid his policy, and refund the premiums hed paid 
towards it. 
Mr S complained and said he had suspicions that Shepherds Friendly was looking for 
excuses not to pay. He said the application form hadnt asked if he had scarring, which was 
actually the cause of his knee problems, and hed cancelled his appointment so hadnt seen 
the MSK team because hed been fine to carry on working. To put things right Mr S said 
Shepherds Friendly should overturn its decline or pay him £470,000 plus interest. 
Shepherds Friendly maintained its decision so Mr S referred his complaint to this service, but 
our investigator didnt think Shepherds Friendly had acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr S disagreed and reiterated his original complaint points. He also explained hed had his 
medical records amended to show that his GP appointment related to scar pain not joint 
pain, and his MSK referral related to his scar too. But our investigator still didnt think 
Shepherds Friendly had acted unfairly or unreasonably so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer applies for an insurance policy theyll usually be asked a variety of 
questions. An insurer will rely on the answers to those questions to assess the potential risks 
that might be presented to it, and to decide whether it is prepared to insure those risks. 
Shepherds Friendly referred to this process in its final response letter to Mr S when it said:
When you applied for your planyou were asked a series of questions about your health 
and lifestyle. Whether to accept your application, and any exclusions placed on your plan, 
was decided based on your answer to these questions.
Mr S had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he applied 
for his policy in line with the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act 2020 
(CIDRA). And if such a misrepresentation did occur, Shepherds Friendly had remedial 
action available to through CIDRA too.
Ive looked at the application form that was completed. It asked if during the last 5 years 
Mr S had seen a health professional for:
Any lupus, fibromyalgia gout or any type of arthritis, neck, back, spine or joint trouble, for 
example rheumatoid arthritis, sciatica?
It also asked if in the last 12 months Mr S had:
Been referred to or had any investigation in hospital, for example biopsy, scan or ECG?
Both questions were clear and specific and were answered as no, but Shepherds Friendly 
says they should have been answered as yes because of what Mr Ss GP medical records 
had shown. Looking at those records I too note the following:
An entry on 5 October 2021 said Mr S needed a referral for a steroid injection. It 
noted Mr Ss history as having scar tissue on the knee from an injury 11 years ago 
and said, Musculoskeletal limb symptoms NOS No inflammations or swelling. 
Hurts to bend  tends to walk with knee straightened. 
An entry from 13 October 2021 noted Mr S had a scar on his left knee, pain on 
walking, no knee pain, and an ok range of movement. It explained hed been advised 
to use ibuprofen gel and a referral to MSK (musculoskeletal) was referenced.
An entry from 20 and 22 October 2021 advised that MSK referral had been made 
and Mr S had been told hed be contacted by the MSK clinic with regard to an 
appointment. 
An entry from 4 November 2021 confirmed the MSK referral had been processed and 
Mr S had been invited for an appointment. 
So, given the questions that were asked in the application form and the information 
contained within the GP records, I dont think it was unreasonable of Shepherds Friendly to 
find that Mr S should have answered yes. 
Mr S has since had his medical records updated to show that his appointment was in relation 
to scar pain. But even if I were to now find that Mr S hadnt misrepresented his position 
regarding joint trouble, I would still be of the opinion that he should have disclosed his MSK 
referral. 
I am aware that Mr S says he recalls the application form asking if he had any outstanding 
tests due or was awaiting the results of any tests. And, that as hed gone on to cancel the 
MSK appointment shortly before applying for his policy he didnt need to disclose the MSK 
referral. But I dont agree. 
The application form had asked whether Mr S had been referred to or had any investigation 
in hospital in the last 12 months. Irrespective of whether hed chosen to cancel his actual 
appointment, Mr S had been referred to hospital in the 12 months preceding his application and should have disclosed that to Shepherds Friendly at the time. So I dont think I can fairly 
conclude that he took reasonable care when he applied for his income protection policy. 
I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that Mr S deliberately or recklessly 
misrepresented his position. But for the reasons given above I do think itd be fair to 
categorise his misrepresentation as careless. 
Shepherds Friendly has shown this service that it wouldnt have offered Mr S a policy at the 
time of his application had the above misrepresentation not occurred. It would have 
postponed his application until the results of his referral were known and any follow up and 
or treatment had been prescribed. So, in line with the remedial action its permitted to take 
under CIDRA, I dont think it was unreasonable of Shepherds Friendly to avoid Mr Ss policy 
and refund his premiums. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman