DRN-1382572
complaint
Mr A says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr A applied for a credit card in August 1996 and the PPI was also sold at this time. Our 
adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr A disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me  an ombudsman - to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Mr A, Halifax shouldve made it clear the policy was optional. It 
also shouldve got Mr As agreement to take it out. Mr A says he never agreed to take out 
the PPI and he wasnt interested in the cover. The credit card and PPI were arranged in 
branch and Halifax says it provided Mr A with advice to take out the PPI. This places a 
greater responsibility on Halifax and the steps it shouldve taken when it sold Mr A the PPI. 
So Ive also looked at Mr As case on this basis. 
As the credit card and PPI were taken out during a meeting, I dont know what was 
discussed. Where I have limited information about a sale, I must decide what I think is 
more likely based on the information and evidence I have seen. This means that I have to 
weigh up the evidence I have, which includes Mr As comments and the evidence from the 
time of sale. 
Halifax has given us a copy of the application which was completed following Mr As 
discussions with the advisor. Within the application I can see there is a separate section 
called Additional Services. This is followed by the statement: If you would like to take 
advantage of our Credit Card Repayments Insurance service please tick the following box. 
On Mr As form a cross has been placed in the relevant box. I think its most likely the 
details on the form wouldve been discussed before Mr As application was submitted. I 
also wouldve expected Mr A to read over this form and raise any questions he had at the 
time before signing it.
So based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its most likely Mr A knew at the time 
that the PPI was optional and that he decided to take it. 
Halifax advised Mr A to take out the policy. So it shouldve made sure the policy was right 
for him. Based on what Ive seen of Mr As circumstances at the time the PPI was sold, I 
think it was. I say this because:
Mr A appears to have been eligible for the policy.
Based on what Mr As told us about his circumstances at the time of sale he 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover  like 
known health issues or unusual employment arrangements. So there was nothing 
to stop him claiming the full benefit of the policy if hed needed to.
Mr A says he wouldve received sick pay from his employer, which wouldve 
been full pay for at least six months. However, I still think the PPI couldve been 
of use to Mr A as it wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance on the card for 
up to 12 months if he couldnt work due to illness or if he was made redundant. 
This wouldve been on top of any employer benefits he may have got, meaning 
he wouldve been able to use this for other everyday living expenses.
I havent seen anything to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable to Mr A. And as the 
premium was paid monthly, he could have cancelled the policy at any time if 
anything in his circumstances changed.
As well as checking the policy was suitable for Mr A, Halifax also shouldve given him clear 
information about the policy so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not to 
take it out. I dont know what steps Halifax took to do this and its possible some things 
werent explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer information 
wouldve changed Mr As decision. I think hed still have bought it. I say this for the same 
reasons I think the policy was suitable for him.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. But Halifax 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr A, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said, including what he has said about never being 
purchasing insurance policies and not being interested in the cover offered. However, I have 
assessed this complaint on the available evidence and in the circumstances, I dont think 
Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. I understand Mr A feels strongly about his case so my decision 
will come as a disappointment. But for the reasons explained above, I dont think Halifax 
needs to do anything more to resolve his complaint. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax does have to pay back to Mr A any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already paid some of the commission and profit share to Mr A so I dont think it needs to do 
anymore.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman