DRN-3214821
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as N has complained about the amount paid by Liberty Mutual
Insurance Europe SE to settle its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr R, a director of N, has brought the complaint on Ns behalf.
For ease of reading, reference to Liberty Mutual will also include anything done by their
agents. 
What happened
N held a business interruption insurance policy with Liberty Mutual. It claimed on its policy
after its business was interrupted on New Years Eve in 2019/2020. N said a member of the
public who wasnt attending its event caused an initial disturbance at around 8pm followed
by a further disturbance and considerable damage to its windows at around 8.45pm. N said
this led to many people going home early on New Years Eve and its business being 
interrupted on New Years Day as the windows were boarded up. N thought it had suffered
losses of at least £3,675.
Liberty Mutual appointed a loss adjuster to look into the claim and ultimately offered N
£763.46 in total as settlement. They calculated Ns losses as being £393.12 for New Years
Eve and as £370.34 for the period from New Years Day onwards while the windows were
boarded up.
Liberty Mutual said they calculated the estimated loss for New Years Eve by averaging the
takings of 23 events across the previous year and applying a gross profit rate (GPR) of
52.85%. They also considered the takings from previous New Years Eves as a comparison.
For New Years Day onwards, Liberty Mutual said N had taken a total of £3,702.89 between
1 January 2020 and 10 January 2020. Liberty Mutual then looked further ahead and saw that
Ns turnover had increased by 18.96% by February. They therefore estimated that the loss of
turnover N had suffered between 1 January and 10 January 2020 was £700.74. They then 
applied the GPR of 52.85% to reach an insured loss of £370.34.
N disagreed with this amount. It complained to Liberty Mutual as it didnt think it was fair to
use either previous New Years Eves takings or other events throughout the year as a
comparison.
For New Years Eve, N said that in 2018 and 2017, it had run events for 100-120 people
which cost £30 per ticket and included food. N said in 2019 it hadnt sold tickets and there
wasnt food. This meant that it was expecting more than 300 people to attend and spend
more than in previous years as they hadnt already spent £30 each on a ticket/food.
N said that it was claiming for losses on New Years Day and not for the period onwards. It
said it usually closed for the first week in January each year for cleaning. However, it had
stayed open on New Years Day in 2020 to show a number of football matches on TV. N
thought that this would have significantly increased its takings if it wasnt for the windows
being boarded up. N said it had also reopened two days earlier in 2020 than in the previous
year in order to recoup some of the losses caused by the incident, so it didnt think
comparing the takings with the same period in the previous year was a fair way to calculate
the losses. N thought it would be fairer to calculate the losses based on takings from the
previous four Saturdays instead, as it had been showing football on TV on those dates.
N also asked Liberty Mutual to clarify how they had calculated a GPR of 52.85%. N thought
65% was a fairer rate as it hadnt sold any food on New Years Eve or New Years Day and it
worked on a GPR of 65% for wet sales.
Liberty Mutual said that if N provided a letter from its accountant showing the split of GPR
between wet and dry sales they would reconsider the GPR. However, they thought that the
amount N had claimed overall was based on assumptions and hadnt been evidenced.
Liberty Mutual said N had advertised on social media as being closed on New Years Day.
As N remained unhappy with Liberty Mutuals response, it brought its complaint to our
service. It said the post on social media showed it was open on New Years Day but closed
for a few days afterwards.
Before I reached a decision, our investigator asked N for evidence of its GPR for wet and dry
sales and asked Liberty Mutual to provide details of how it had calculated their estimate for
Ns GPR.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 December 2021. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not my role to calculate Ns exact losses; instead I need to decide whether Liberty Mutual
have acted fairly and reasonably in how they have settled the claim. N has made a number
of detailed points. I dont intend to address them all and will instead focus on what I think are
the central issues to this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ns policy set out that Liberty Mutual will cover loss resulting
from business interruption or insurance in consequence of damage at Ns premises. The
Basis of Claims section says:
Following damage insured by this section the Company shall pay for the
following in respect of any of the undermentioned items if insured by this section
Gross Profit  loss thereof due to
a. reduction in turnover being the amount produced by applying the rate of Gross
Profit to the amount by which the turnover during the Indemnity Period shall fall
short of the standard turnover in consequence of the damage
I therefore need to decide if Liberty Mutual have been fair and reasonable in how they
decided what the standard turnover would have been and in calculating the rate of gross
profit. I will deal with these in turn below.
Standard turnover for New Years Eve
I understand that its difficult to compare New Years Eve 2019 to the previous two years,
because in those years N had already sold tickets for £30 a head and had a lower capacity
than it was expecting for 2019. Therefore, Liberty Mutual reviewed the turnover from 23
separate events throughout the previous year as well as looking at previous New Years
Eves takings. While I accept that a New Years Eve might be different to other events whichtook place throughout the year, I dont think it was unreasonable for Liberty Mutual to
consider the turnover from these events, alongside previous New Years Eves takings in
order to give an indication of Ns turnover during events.
The previous three New Years Eves takings were £2,707, £2,986 and £2,985. I understand
that these were different types of event, but I dont think it naturally follows that as customers
in 2019 hadnt spent an additional £30 on a ticket that they would therefore spend an
additional £30 each while at the event. I say this because the ticket price previously had
included food and, as N said there was no food being sold in 2019, I dont think I can
reasonably conclude they would have spent an extra £30 each on drinks.
N has estimated that it had 200 customers at its premises by 8pm and would have had 300
customers attending the event by midnight, due to having hired a marquee. However,
although Ive considered its spreadsheet of takings carefully, Im not persuaded that the data
supports its estimate of customers by 8pm, and I havent seen anything apart from Ns
comments to support its estimate for how many customers would have been present by
midnight. The takings between 6.30pm and 8pm were £354.60. Between 200 people that is
a spend of £1.77 each, which seems lower than I would expect. Even if these takings are
attributed just to one hour between 7pm and 8pm, and if they were to continue at the same
rate for eight hours, that would total £2,836.80 which is similar to previous New Years Eves
and takings from other events. I dont think it follows that if takings were up 3 times in the
first 1.5 hours on previous New Years Eves that this means that rate would have continued.
Also, while the takings in the first 1.5 hours were 3 times higher than New Years Eve in
2018, there was much less difference compared with the first 1.5 hours in 2019, 2017 and
2016.
Its clear that Ns business was interrupted on New Years Eve, and I accept that it most
likely lost some customers. I also understand why N thinks a comparison cant be made to
previous New Years Eves or other events. However, the information Ive seen isnt enough
to persuade me that it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Liberty Mutual to
increase the settlement theyve paid to N for losses on New Years Eve.
New Years Day
Using the calculation set out in my background, Liberty Mutual estimated that Ns losses
from 1 January 2020 onwards were £370.74. However, N has been clear that it is only
claiming for losses on New Years Day and not for any period thereafter.
I dont think Liberty Mutual were correct when they initially said that N was closed on New
Years Day. I say this because the social media post that N provided indicates that N was 
open, and N has evidenced that it took £240 that day.
I accept Ns point that it doesnt seem reasonable to compare the takings of the first week in
January 2020 with those of the first week in January 2019, as N was open at different times.
However, I also dont think it follows that a good benchmark for its New Years Days
takings on a Wednesday would have been its takings on the prior Saturdays in December.
It appears to me that there is no perfect benchmark to indicate the takings N would have
taken on 1 January but for the incident. However, I think other dates in January are likely to
produce a fairer figure. I understand N took £3,702.89 in total on 1, 9 and 10 January 2020.
So, deducting the £240 takings for New Years Day results in £3,462.89 taken on 9 and 10
January 2020. An average of the two days is £1,731.45.
I think a fairer starting point for an estimate of what N might have taken on New YearsDay but for the incident is £1,731.45. It did take £240 meaning a loss of £1,491.45. When
applying the GPR of 52.85% this means an insured loss of £788.23. As Liberty Mutual paid
£393.12 for losses incurred on New Years Day, I think the fair and reasonable outcome
would be for Liberty Mutual to increase this amount.
Rate of Gross Profit
The term I referred to at the beginning of my findings says that the rate of gross profit will be
applied to the amount the actual turnover falls short of the standard turnover. The policy
defines the GPR as:
The amount by which the sum of the turnover and the amount of the
closing Stock shall exceed the sum of the amount of the opening Stock and
purchases (less discounts), carriage, freight, packaging and bad debts
Liberty Mutual said their estimate of the GPR of 52.85% was based on the following figures
from 2017-2018:
Turnover £346,764
Cost of sales (£163,498)
Gross profit £183,266, which equates to 52.85%
N said it works on a gross profit rate of around 65% for wet sales and there was no food sold
on New Years Eve or New Years Day, so it didnt think it was fair to apply a rate of 52.85%.
I think the wording of the policy could be interpreted in two different ways. Liberty Mutual has
interpreted the calculation of the GPR as needing to be applied generally to the interrupted
business. However, it could alternatively be interpreted as needing to be applied to the
business for the period in which the business is interrupted. I believe this latter interpretation
is the more natural understanding in the context of the policy and its purpose and in event
produces a fairer and more reasonable outcome in this particular claim.
Therefore, I have sought to estimate Ns GPR for the period of interruption on New Years
Eve and New Years Day. N is clear that it only made wet sales in this period and I have no
reason to doubt this testimony. N has also provided me with a breakdown of its wet and dry
figures for 2017-18 which indicate a GPR of 59.9% for wet sales. This is lower than Ns
estimate of a GPR of 65% on wet sales but N hasnt provided evidence to support this higher
amount.
Applying a GPR of 59.9% to Ns lost turnover, the insured loss for New Years Eve increases
from £393.12 to £445.56 (an increase of £52.44); and the insured loss for New Years Day
increases from £788.23 to £893.37 (an increase of £500.26 from the £393.12 paid by Liberty
Mutual).
I appreciate this wont be the answer N was hoping for as its business has been impacted by
an incident that wasnt its fault and it believes its turnover would have been much higher.
However, having considered the matter very carefully, I think that the fair and reasonable
outcome to this particular complaint is for Liberty Mutual to pay N an additional £552.70
(ie £52.44 plus £500.26), plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date Liberty Mutual
paid the claim to the date they make payment.
Liberty Mutual accepted my provisional decision. N accepted the decision in relation to the 
increase in GPR but still thought the losses on New Years Eve hadnt been fully understood. 
N said it had decided to change the type of event from previous New Years Eves after many 
requests from people in the local area. And despite taking around £3,000 in advance ticket sales for the previous New Years Eves, all events still took around £3,000 in wet sales. N 
said it wouldnt have been worth changing the type of event if it thought it would take less 
money than in previous years.  
It said it was expecting around 300 people due to the number of enquiries and there was 
around 200 people in by around 8pm. This dropped after the first incident, rose again slightly 
and then dropped after the second. N said it was up 55% by 9pm and therefore would have 
expected to be up at least by this amount for the remainder of the night if it wasnt for the 
incident. It provided a spreadsheet to show how it had reached its conclusion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ns point that it wouldnt have changed the format of the event if it thought it 
wouldnt make as much money as in previous years. However, the further information it has 
provided isnt enough to persuade me to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
I therefore remain satisfied that the fair and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint 
is for Liberty Mutual to pay N an additional £552.70, plus interest at 8% simple per year from 
the date they paid the claim to the date they make payment.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I require Liberty Mutual 
Insurance Europe SE to pay N an additional £552.70, plus interest at 8% simple per year 
from the date Liberty Mutual paid the claim to the date they make payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman