DRN-2559190
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax would not proceed with a 
balance transfer as it said Mr Bs other account was closed.
What happened
Mr B says he wanted to carry out a balance transfer involving an account he held with a 
bank I will call N. He says Halifax could not continue with the process as it had information 
that his N account was closed. Mr B says his N account is open and has a letter from it 
confirming that. He would like either Halifax or the company that provided the information 
about his N account to sort matters out, and would like an apology as well as compensation 
as he is paying interest on his N account.
Halifax says it uses a company I will call E to provide information in cases of balance 
transfers. It says it received information that Mr Bs N account was closed and says it doesnt 
have the power to change that information and that would need to be done by either N or E.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Halifax had been given information by E that the account was closed, 
and any update would not be Halifaxs responsibility.
Mr B doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision and I accept that it would seem each 
business involved in this complaint appears to be blaming one of the others and not one of 
them has offered Mr B a solution.
I make clear to Mr B that I can only look at his complaint about Halifax and its role here.
Im satisfied that Halifax has made clear to Mr B that it uses information from E when 
considering applications for a balance transfer. I think that its up to Halifax to make such 
decisions when exercising its commercial judgement and not something I can interfere in. I 
also think in those circumstances Halifax doesnt have any control over the information E 
relies on or uses. And that Halifax cant simply update the records of a different business.
So, I dont think Halifax made a mistake or acted unfairly by refusing Mr Bs application when 
it received information from E that Mr Bs account with N was no longer open. I appreciate 
the account is open but as Halifax isnt responsible for Es records, I cant fairly hold Halifax 
responsible for what took place.
I accept that Mr B will no doubt question which of the three companies made a mistake and I 
also accept that he hasnt received an answer to that question. I am sorry we cant resolve 
that issue for him, but I hope Mr B appreciates that it is impossible for me to decide on the 
information I have from the three companies, where the incorrect information came from.
It is not clear if Mr B has attempted a balance transfer with a different business other than 
Halifax or if he has asked it to carry out a new application as it seems there is no longer any 
incorrect information held by E. But overall, Im satisfied on balance that Halifax has followed 
its procedures for these types of applications and so I cant fairly order it to either apologise 
to Mr B or pay him the compensation he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman