DRN-3444614
The complaint
Miss P complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (Home) irresponsibly 
gave her a running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In March 2001, Miss P applied for a credit account with Home. I cannot consider the 
reasonableness or otherwise of the initial credit or any credit increases before 6 April 
2007, as this is the date the providers of consumer credit came under our jurisdiction. I 
can consider the events of 6 April 2007 onwards. 
The records both sides have submitted to us provide an incomplete record of the 
borrowing record over the length of time Miss P used the account. But it seems that the 
credit limit was £590 in February 2014 and it rose to £620 in September 2018 before 
reducing to £530 in December 2018. 
In 2020, Miss P complained to Home to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for her because it wasnt affordable and that Home ought to have made a better effort to 
understand her financial circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss P didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Home will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach 
to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases of credit 
and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so, I 
dont intend to cover them off here. 
Miss Ps complaint is that Home made credit available that was unaffordable. Home has 
explained that it carried out a credit check to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer at each stage of its lending. Its possible that Home failed to make adequate checks 
before providing Miss P with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries 
would have caused Home to think the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the bank account details provided by Miss P, seem to show regular 
income into her banking account which was not modest in nature. And the credit limits 
were not immodest and the maximum monthly payments for those credit limits were also 
relatively modest. I have seen no evidence of missed or under payments on the account 
itself. 
I have seen a credit file that suggests that Miss P experienced some financial difficulty but 
that appears to have been almost entirely after the date of the provision of the last credit 
increase. So this matter couldnt have put Home off providing the credit at the time it did. I 
have noted an early arrears on an account in February 2018, but that amount was modest 
in nature. I have seen the information about the default from 2018 but as Ive already 
noted Ive seen no evidence that Miss Ps Home account was anything but well managed, 
the credit limits were not onerous and Miss P was within those limits, and Miss Ps income 
was not modest. So, I dont think that these things would have led Home to conclude that 
the credit increase should have been avoided, had more or better information about this 
been available to Home in September 2018. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss P to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Home to think that the credit it provided 
Miss P was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss P was managing 
her account or what Home could see of her management of other credit ought to have 
prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss P will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss P to know that I 
listened to all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint against Home Retail Group 
Card Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman