DRN-2604352
The complaint
Mr A complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited incorrectly executed his order to sell his 
shares in an Exchange Trade Fund (ETF). As a result he claims he made a financial loss 
and has asked to be compensated. 
What happened
Mr A opened a share dealing account with Halifax in 2014. On 15 January 2020 he placed a 
stop loss order to sell his holding in HPRO (an ETF) if the share price reached 1960p. 
Halifax accepted this order and Mr A received confirmation that it had been validly set up. 
The following day trading in HPRO shares largely traded at between 1983p and 1985p until 
1.29pm, when Halifax received a bid price of 1944p. At this point Mr As Tradeplan order 
triggered, and his trade was eventually executed at 1951p. The next price was about half an 
hour later, and HPROs share price had risen again to around 1985p. The share price 
continued to increase until the end of the day. 
Mr A complained via Halifaxs online chat facility. He said that his Tradeplan order should 
never have been triggered because HPROs share price had never dipped below 1984p. He 
asked for compensation. Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong. It explained that the 
price it received was lower than the price he had set his stop loss at, and as a result his 
order was validly triggered and executed. So Mr A referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into his complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
considered Mr As evidence of screenshots from the London Stock Exchanges (LSE) 
website which indicated that his trade was the only one that had been executed at such a 
low price. But he didnt think there was anything Halifax couldve done about that. He 
thought that Halifaxs terms were clear about when a Tradeplan order would be triggered, 
and in any event, Halifax didnt set the share price. 
Mr A didnt agree. In short he said:
The evidence he had submitted from the LSE showed that HPROs share price never 
dropped below 1984p. In any event, Halifaxs own pricing evidence showed that the 
bid-ask spread for every transaction apart from his was 5p. For his transaction the 
spread rose to 88p and this is what caused the bid price to drop below his stop loss. 
He didnt agree that the bid price which Halifax received of 1944p was the market 
price. He considered the market price was around 1985p  the price of the last trade 
in the market before his. As a result, he said that Halifax was wrong to execute his 
stop loss. He said that he didnt accept that a rogue low bid offer can be taken as 
market price for the purposes of this contract. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I should start by saying that I completely understand Mr As frustration at this particular trade 
going through. I agree that the prices Halifax received at the relevant time were significantly 
different to any of the available prices before and after the trade was executed. But that 
doesnt of itself mean Halifax has treated him unfairly. And whilst I appreciate Mr A will 
disagree, much of his argument is based on him having a benefit of hindsight which Halifax 
didnt have at the time. 
Section 18.23 of the terms and conditions of Mr As account explain how Tradeplan orders 
work. It says that these orders are designed to be executed when the market price of an 
investment meets, falls below, or rise above a specified price. Further, it highlights the very 
risk Mr A experienced when it says that specific events may cause the market price of an 
investment to move to an unusually high or low price, which may cause your order to 
execute at that unusual price. 
The key issue here is that Halifax wasnt setting the share price - it was acting as his agent 
in the market. By creating a Tradeplan order, Mr A had specifically instructed Halifax to 
automatically take action as soon HPROs share price reached a particular level. Halifax had 
no discretion over whether to execute or otherwise his order. 
The evidence Ive seen shows that Halifax did receive a quote which triggered the Tradeplan 
order he had set  and it executed that order in the market at the best price available to it 
after his Tradeplan order was triggered. I would note that this was in fact marginally higher, 
at around 1951p, than the bid price it had received of 1944p.  
I understand Mr As feels strongly that the evidence he has provided in the form of 
screenshots from the LSE is persuasive and ought to mean his complaint is upheld. But I 
dont agree. The evidence Mr A has provided doesnt change the reality that at the time his 
order was triggered, the best available price was in fact the one he received. I accept that 
the screenshot Mr A has provided doesnt show the low price as being 1944p (or the price 
he received of 1951p). But that same screenshot also shows a high of 1990p  when there 
were at least two prices higher than that at 3.24pm and 3.28pm. This demonstrates that the 
screenshot is not in fact conclusive or even persuasive evidence of HPROs high and low 
prices of the day. 
The likely reason for the discrepancy is the type of trade and how it was reported to the 
exchange. Automatic or algorithmic trades are reported automatically  and both the high 
and low trades of the day as seen on Mr As screenshot are in fact automatic or algorithmic 
trades. But off-book trades of the type that Halifax carried out in Mr As case are reported via 
an authorised avenue called TradeEcho. This makes no difference to the trade itself, nor the 
fact that it was executed in line with the Exchanges rules  and therefore as is clear from 
evidence Mr A himself has provided, the execution venue was still the London Stock 
Exchange. But its clear when looking at the pricing data on Mr As screenshot, as well as 
the earlier prices which Halifax has provided, that the off-book trades are not reflected in 
what the LSE was saying were the high and low prices of the day. For example there are 
at least two prices which were lower than 1984p from around 10.30am, and three prices 
higher than the high of 1990p. All these trades were labelled off-book. 
The reason Ive set out the above is purely to explain to Mr A that his evidence doesnt show 
what he thinks it does  there was no rogue quote. It was simply a reality of the market, as 
it was trading at that moment in time, in line with all applicable rules. If Mr A had attempted to trade himself, he wouldve been in a position to decide whether or not to accept the price, 
or to wait for a more favourable quote. But as he had placed an automated order, designed 
to trigger as soon as a particular price was reached, that option wasnt available. 
Even if I thought Halifax ought to have checked the price in some way (and to be clear, thats 
not a finding Im making), the nature of this particular ETF meant that prices werent being 
continually streamed. This means that at that moment in time, Halifax couldnt have known in 
advance whether the significantly increased spread and the drop in price was a mere blip in 
that days trading, or whether it was the beginning of a slide in this ETFs share price. A stop 
order is an explicit instruction to carry out a market order  it does not allow the broker any 
scope or discretion on whether to execute that order. If Halifax had somehow decided not to 
execute Mr As order at that moment in time, and the next available price was even lower 
than that the one that was quoted, it wouldnt have been providing with him with best 
execution and wouldnt have been adhering to the terms. 
Mr A now knows that the trade immediately after his, around 30 mins later, was executed at 
a better price  and I do understand his frustration. But this was also a risk of creating the 
TradePlan order. By essentially specifying an automatic trigger point he was protecting 
himself against sharp drops in price at times when he was unable to react. But he was also 
removing his ability to ride out short but significant drops  as well as removing any 
discretion he or Halifax had to assess a given price drop or market event. 
For all these reasons, whilst I fully understand why Mr A has raised his complaint, I dont 
agree he has been treated unfairly, nor that Halifax incorrectly executed his order. I 
understand Mr A will likely be disappointed by my decision, but I hope he understands the 
reasons why Ive reached it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman