DRN-1531706
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc has deleted some transactions from his 
account statements.
What happened
Mr L has current and savings accounts with Barclays. In December 2017 Mr L received 
some money into his current account. Within a few days, the balance had reduced 
significantly.
He told Barclays he may have been taken advantage of by a friend. He said his friend had 
offered to help him spend the money wisely and persuaded him to transfer the money into 
an account owned by somebody else. Because of that he thought he may have been a 
victim of fraud. He also said he may have lost his bank card around this time. And he said he 
may have bought a number of items with the money, but they were stolen by his friend 
before he received them.
Mr L looked at his current account statements to see what had happened. The transactions 
he thought had been made werent shown. So, he went to a Barclays branch and spoke to 
an adviser. He thought the adviser may have a connection to the friend who talked to him 
about how to spend his money. He was concerned that somebody at Barclays, perhaps the 
adviser he spoke to, had deleted the transactions from his statements.
Mr L complained. He asked Barclays to find the missing transactions, correct his statements, 
and return the money to his account that may have been taken fraudulently.
In response Barclays said there were no missing transactions and the accounts added up. 
They also said Mr L should contact the police if he thought somebody had taken advantage 
of him. Barclays later gave him £100 to apologise for delays during their complaint 
investigation.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly. 
Having checked Mr Ls statements, she wasnt persuaded there was any evidence to show 
transactions had been deleted. She explained that the statements showed money had been 
moved between Mr Ls current and savings accounts and back again. During       
December 2017 and January 2018, the money he received was spent on a number of 
different card payments and cash withdrawals.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He made a number of different points. Ive 
considered all of Mr Ls points and Ill summarise the key ones here:
His health has suffered as a result of whats happened, and it continues to have a 
significant impact on him;
He was sure some transactions had been deleted;
His statements had been tampered with to try to conceal the deleted transactions;
There were other discrepancies in the statements. For example, transactions 
appearing on the wrong days and two transactions appearing on the same day from 
different towns;Because he couldnt show evidence of the transactions he thought were fraudulent, 
there was no proof he could give to the police for them to investigate his concerns.
 
As Mr L didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Barclays has 
acted fairly, so I wont be asking them to do anything further. Ill explain why.
Its clear Mr L feels very strongly that hes been let down by Barclays. He feels sure 
transactions have been made that arent shown in his statements. And because of that, hes 
been unable to take his concerns about these transactions any further.
Barclays have said theres no evidence of Mr Ls account statement being changed by their 
staff. Theyve told us branch staff dont have system access to make such a change. Staff 
who can make a change would only do so in very limited circumstances and an audit trail of 
it would exist. Im persuaded by the explanation Barclays have given that they have no 
evidence of any changes to Mr Ls statements by their staff.
Ive looked carefully at the statements for Mr Ls current and savings accounts. I can see 
Mr L received a sum of money into his current account in December 2017. On the same day 
most of it was transferred to his savings account. During the rest of December and 
throughout January 2018, the money in Mr Ls current account was used. Numerous 
withdrawals from cash machines and in a Barclays branch were made. A number of card 
payments for varying amounts on different products and services were also made. Mr L has 
said that he recognises some of these transactions. So, it seems likely that he hadnt lost his 
card or passed it to someone else to use. As the money in Mr Ls current account reduced, it 
was regularly topped up with transfers from his savings account. By the end of January 2018 
most of the money hed received had left his accounts. 
The usage shown in the statements doesnt suggest transactions have been deleted or the 
statements have been tampered with. The figures make sense and correspond between the 
two accounts. So, the statements give me no reason to doubt what Barclays have said.
If Mr L disputes that he made or authorised any of the payments shown on the statement, 
hes entitled to get in touch with Barclays and let them know about it. Then Barclays can look 
into it for him.
Mr L has suggested he might provide evidence to support his point of view, but he hasnt 
sent us anything to consider. Instead hes mentioned potential discrepancies in the 
statements that he thinks were an attempt to conceal deleted transactions.
Hes noticed the date on which a payment is made is sometimes different to the date it 
appears on the statement. Sometimes payments dont reach an account on the day theyre 
made, particularly when there are weekends or bank holidays. These statements cover late 
December 2017 and early January 2018, when there are more bank holidays than usual. 
Under these circumstances its common for payments to take a few days to show on 
statements.
Mr L has also said two different payments, from two different towns, appeared on the 
statement on 27 December 2017. He says he couldnt have travelled between both towns on 
the same day. For the reason explained above, this isnt evidence of a discrepancy in the 
statements. But if Mr L disputes he made any of the payments, he should let Barclays know.I have no doubt this has caused Mr L distress and upset, and he genuinely believes 
something is missing. But Ive seen no evidence of Barclays changing his statements or 
treating him unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. So, I dont require Barclays Bank UK 
Plc to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman