DRN-3339563
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that TSB Bank plc wont refund the money hes lost to a fraudster.
Whats happened?
Mr H says he received a cold call at the end of February 2019 from a person who asked if he 
wanted to invest in bitcoin. Hed recently seen an advert on a popular social media platform 
about this type of investment  claiming that celebrities had received lucrative returns  the 
reviews for the company the caller claimed to work for looked positive and the company itself 
seemed professional (although Mr H was aware it wasnt regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)), so he decided to go ahead. He was given an investment manager, some 
training on trading and online access to a trading platform where he could see how much his 
investment had grown. At around the same time, Mr H shared the login details for a 
legitimate bitcoin trading account in his name with his investment manager, so that he could 
trade from that account on his behalf.
Initially, Mr H invested small amounts from accounts he held with other financial institutions. 
Hes said he could see his investments were growing from looking at his online account, so 
he didnt have any concerns.
On 4 April 2019, he made a larger investment of £11,109.18 from his TSB account.
He then received some small returns of £215.90 on 17 April 2019 and £456.93 on             
14 June 2019.
On 8 August 2019, he transferred £19,889.44 into his legitimate bitcoin trading account for 
his investment manager to trade with.
Mr H has since discovered that he has been the victim of fraud. He has lost contact with his 
investment manager and cannot get the money he has invested back, and the funds he 
transferred to his legitimate bitcoin trading account have been removed.
Mr H asked TSB to refund the money hes lost from his TSB account under its fraud 
guarantee. TSB explained that its fraud guarantee was not in place when Mr H instructed the 
first transaction on 4 April 2019. And it said that its fraud guarantee doesnt cover the second 
transaction instructed on 8 August 2019 because Mr Hs loss didnt arise from his TSB 
account  his money was transferred to a genuine account held in his own name and the 
fraudster removed the funds from that account. TSB also explained that the payments Mr H 
made werent flagged as suspicious because he often transfers funds from his savings 
account to his current account, as he did here, and then out to merchants who offer 
investment virtual currency exchanges. So, the payments were in line with his usual activity.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. They didnt think that TSBs fraud guarantee 
was applicable in the circumstances, or that the scam wouldve been uncovered if TSB had 
flagged the payments Mr H made as unusual and asked him some more questions about 
them.
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 15 February 2022. Ill set out my findings below.
Its common ground that Mr H authorised the two payments from his TSB account. He 
made the payments using internet banking and, even though he was the victim of a scam, 
and he didnt intend the payments to go to a fraudster, the payments were authorised under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. TSB had an obligation to follow Mr Hs payment 
instructions, and Mr H is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. But thats not the 
end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that TSB should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
The payments were international transfers and the highest value transactions on Mr Hs 
account between January and August 2019. There were three other transactions of a 
relatively high value - £5,000 being the highest  and these transactions all followed a 
related transfer into the account from Mr Hs savings, as the disputed payments did. But 
these transactions are much smaller than the payments, and theyre faster payments to a 
consistently used destination. I dont think theyre comparable to high value international 
transfers to new payees. Considering the value of the payments, the type of payments they 
were and their destination against Mr Hs account activity in the same year, I think they stand 
out as unusual and out of character and, overall, I think its reasonable to expect TSB to 
have asked Mr H some further questions about the payments.
TSB has argued that at least one of the payments was transferred to Mr Hs own bitcoin 
trading account, so the loss didnt occur on his TSB account. But cryptocurrency scams 
often involve money passing through more than one account and they were not uncommon 
at the time. I think TSB wouldve been aware of this. The FCA and Action Fraud published 
warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. By April and August 2019, I think TSB 
ought to have had time to digest these warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect and 
prevent this type of fraud. So, although Mr Hs losses may not have arisen from the initial 
transfer, Im satisfied they ought to have been within the contemplation of, and foreseeable 
to, TSB. And Im satisfied that TSB can be held responsible for the loss if it could have 
prevented the scam by asking Mr H some further questions about the payments.
It doesnt appear that Mr H was coached by the fraudster, as is often the case with scams, 
so I think he wouldve spoken freely had TSB asked him some questions about the payments  as he did when he reported the fraud. And I think it would most likely have 
become apparent that he was being scammed.
By April and August 2019, I think TSB had or ought to have had a good enough 
understanding of how these scams work  including that the customer often moves money to 
an account in their own name before it is moved on to a fraudster  to have been able to 
identify the risk of harm from fraud. With its industry knowledge, I think TSB ought to have 
asked Mr H some probing questions and given him information regarding the prevalence and 
typical features of cryptocurrency scams. Mr H has said he had no concerns about investing 
because the company he was dealing with looked professional, had positive reviews, trained 
him on trading, and gave him access to an online account through which he could see that 
his investment was growing  and thats what he may have said if TSB had questioned him. 
But I dont think the conversation should have stopped there. TSB couldve, for example, 
asked how Mr H had been contacted, whether the investment opportunity had been 
advertised on social media and mentioned a celebrity, and whether Mr H had parted with 
personal details in order to open a trading account. These are typical features of 
cryptocurrency scams.
If TSB had done enough here, I think it wouldve most likely been obvious to the bank and 
Mr H that there was a risk of financial harm, and the scam wouldve unfolded without the 
payments being made. Of course, TSB could also have declined to make the payments 
altogether based on the information it had received if Mr H still wanted to go ahead with 
them despite its warnings, and given the circumstances here, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for it to do so.
I appreciate TSB needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in payments, 
against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment requests and 
I wouldnt have expected it to interrogate Mr H about the payments. I also acknowledge that 
the main perpetrator here is the fraudster. But overall, I think appropriate questions should 
reasonably have been asked in this case, and if they had been Mr H wouldnt have wanted 
to go ahead or, if he did, TSB couldve declined the payments. Either way, I think the scam 
wouldve been prevented and Mr H wouldnt have lost his money.
Considering everything, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is to uphold this complaint.
In the circumstances, I dont need to go on to consider whether TSB acted with care and 
urgency in trying to recover Mr Hs money.
I have considered whether Mr H should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. Hes admitted he was aware that the company he was investing in wasnt    
FCA-regulated. But not all legitimate companies are regulated, and I think Mr Hs 
explanation on why he wasnt concerned about the investment opportunity is reasonable. 
Ive looked at the investment paperwork he was provided with and I can understand why 
Mr H thought it looked professional. Ive also seen a statement of his online trading account, 
and this appears legitimate on the face of it. Im persuaded that all of this, together with the 
training Mr H received, the communication Ive seen between Mr H and his investment 
manager, and the returns paid into his bank account was enough to satisfy a reasonable 
person. Overall, I dont think there was any contributory negligence on this occasion.
I intend to uphold this complaint and instruct TSB to:
reimburse the £30,998.62 Mr H has lost to this scam from his TSB account (TSB can 
deduct any returns Mr H has already received on his apparent investment); plus
pay 8% simple interest per year on that sum, calculated from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H and TSB both accepted my provisional decision. Neither party put forward any further 
comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, and neither party has provided any 
new information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the findings and 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that TSB Bank plc should:
reimburse the £30,998.62 Mr H has lost to this scam from his TSB account (TSB can 
deduct the £672.83 in returns Mr H has already received on his apparent 
investment); plus
pay 8% simple interest per year on that sum, calculated from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman