DRN-3700846
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
provided him with a credit facility he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr C approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in January 2021. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mr C was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mr C was initially given a facility with a £300 limit on 18 January 2021. His limit was 
increased on a further two occasions with the final increase taking Mr Cs credit limit to £580 
in May 2021. 
Following Mr Cs complaint, SNC wrote to Mr C to let him know that having looked at 
everything it wasnt going to uphold the complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mr C 
referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Cs complaint and he though SNC had made a 
reasonable decision to initially approve the facility for Mr C as well as when SNC increased 
Mr Cs credit limit. She also thought that there wasnt anything in the way that Mr C used the 
facility that wouldve given SNC cause for concern. So, she didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision. 
SNC didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Mr C wasnt given a payday loan. Instead he was provided with a credit facility 
where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the 
drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mr C this facility when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules 
in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of 
the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance. 
Overall, the guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did 
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put 
simply, the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed 
decision on the lending.
Throughout the lifetime that Mr C had the facility SNC maintained read-only access to his 
bank statements, to allow SNC to monitor Mr Cs finances and to allow it to carry out 
additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mr Cs expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Mr Cs facility was approved for £300 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be in a position to make the repayment of around £20 per month, by carrying out a 
proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mr Cs income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to his bank statements for the 10 months preceding the facility being 
granted. It then used an algorithm to establish what Mr Cs income and expenditure was, 
after completing these checks, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mr C could afford the 
minimum repayment towards the facility.  
SNC, using its own algorithm calculated that Mr Cs income was around £2,728 per month, 
with around £2,300 of that being salary. It also calculated Mr Cs expenditure amounted to 
around £1,800 leaving disposable income of £933 in which to afford the minimum repayment 
of £20 per month. 
However, Ive looked through the bank transaction data that SNC had access to prior to 
granting the facility to see whether there was anything within this data that may have shown 
SNC that the facility was unaffordable or unsustainable for Mr C. Having looked at the data 
there isnt anything in my view that wouldve prevented SNC from providing the facility. 
I can see that Mr Cs income was around £2,300 per month and there was then another 
regular payment Mr C received of between £190 to £450 in the months before the facility 
was approved  so the figure SNC calculated for his total monthly income seems reasonable 
and broadly accurate. 
Mr C had monthly direct debits and standing orders which came to around £430 per month 
in the months leading up to the facility being approved and these covered payments towards 
a credit card, telecommunication company and payments for gas and electricity. 
It is worth saying here that Mr C was paying a debt management charity around £140 per 
month, so this does indicate that there was at least in the past some payment problems but 
SNC was aware that Mr C had been paying this charity since at least April 2020. But I dont 
think this payment, on its own, wouldve led SNC to not approve the facility. 
On top of this I can see a regular payment which appears to be rent of around £900 per 
month. Given, what was apparent, in the bank transaction statement I think SNC made a 
reasonable decision to provide the facility because the information it had suggested Mr C 
would be able to repay and service the facility. SNC also carried out a credit search and it provided a summary of the results. While SNC 
was aware that Mr C had used short term loan accounts in the past, the bank transaction 
data SNC had access too, didnt indicate that Mr C was a regular user of these sorts of 
loans. There also wasnt anything else in the results that may have led SNC to make further 
enquires or not approve the credit facility. 
Overall, based on a review of the transaction data and the credit file, there isnt anything that 
either in my view made the facility unaffordable or which wouldve prompted SNC to carry 
out further checks. Therefore, I think SNC made a reasonable decision to provide the facility. 
Monitoring the facility 
Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I have gone on to 
think about whether there was a point in the lending relationship that showed SNC, Mr C 
was likely having difficulties repaying the facility. Having done so, I dont think there was, and 
so this part of the complaint also isnt successful. 
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in 
CONC and how it applies to this case. 
CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, 
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like 
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. 
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Mr Cs use of the facility and then 
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial 
difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC has a good indication of Mr Cs actual financial position, because 
throughout the time of him having the facility it had read-only access to his bank account so 
it had a good idea of his income and outgoings. 
As far as I can see there is nothing in the usage that wouldve prompted SNC to have 
thought that Mr C could no longer afford to repay or service the facility. Mr C tended to use 
the facility, by making a repayment at the end of the month towards the balance  usually 
around the time he received his salary and then over the course of the following month he 
would then draw back to the credit limit. This is broadly in line with how Id expect the facility 
to be used. 
Mr C last dew down on the facility in May 2021 and repaid the facility in July 2021 and didnt 
drawdown on it again, so he only used it for around seven months. This, in my view, isnt 
long enough to have made SNC think that he wasnt using the facility as it was intended to 
be used 
Ive also considered the information I can see in the bank transaction data, and there doesnt 
appear to have been a change in circumstances from when SNC approved the facility. For 
example, his income and outcomes appear to remain broadly similar. Therefore, based on the way that Mr C repaid the facility as well as what SNC could see in 
the bank statements I dont yet think it had reached the point where SNC wouldve thought 
that the facility was unaffordable or unsustainable for him. As this is the case, Im not 
upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman