DRN-2963182
The complaint
Mr S complains that Retail Money Market Ltd, trading as Ratesetter (Ratesetter), has 
unfairly added late payment markers to his credit file. 
What happened
Mr S acquired a loan in 2019 using Ratesetters electronic platform. Initially, Mr S 
complained to Ratesetter about a number of different issues, however the complaint has 
evolved since then into how Mr Ss payments were treated by Ratesetter and the effect this 
has had on his credit file. 
Mr S contacted Ratesetter in early June 2020 as he had missed the contractual payment for 
that month and wanted to make a manual payment. Ratesetter told Mr S that the manual 
payment would be treated as an extra payment rather than covering the missed payment. 
Ratesetter told Mr S that this was because the manual payment was being made before 
theyd been informed that his direct debit payment for his contractual payment hadnt been 
successful. 
Mr S asked Ratesetter whether this had also happened prior to the June 2020 payment. 
Ratesetter told Mr S that the manual payment hed made in April 2020 had been treated in 
the same way, in that it had been classed as an extra payment. This meant that his 
repayments were now effectively in arrears and that he had in effect missed two payments.
Mr S complained to Ratesetter and then brought his complaint to our service. He said that 
Ratesetter had extended the term of his loan because of the missed payments and that 
adverse information was being recorded on his credit file. Mr S subsequently mentioned that 
he had withheld two payments to re-extend the length of the loan to its original term.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. He didnt think it fair that Ratesetter had treated Mr 
Ss manual payments as extra payments. He recommended that Ratesetter rework Mr Ss 
account so that all payments received were made on time and that they should report the 
same information to the relevant credit reference agencies. Our investigator also said 
Ratesetter should pay Mr S £100 to compensate him for the trouble and upset he had 
suffered. 
Ratesetter didnt agree. In summary, they reiterated their position that manual payments are 
treated as extra payments when these are made before theyre notified that a direct debit 
payment has failed. And they said this meant they couldnt reallocate Mr Ss manual 
payments, so effectively this will mean that these are showing as extra payments. 
Mr S felt that an award of £25,000 was more appropriate due to the impact this matter had 
on his credit file. 
As agreement couldnt be reached between the parties, Mr Ss complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Ratesetters systems operate in such a way that manual payments made by 
their customers are treated as extra payments, if they arent informed at that time by the 
customers bank that a direct debit payment has failed. 
However, as Ive mentioned above, Im deciding whats fair and reasonable here as befits 
my remit. Mr S took proactive action to make his required contractual payments as soon as 
he was aware that the payment wouldnt be made. In this case, this meant that he contacted 
Ratesetter to make a manual payment before they were told his direct debit payment had 
failed. Mr Ss intention here was clearly to ensure that he kept to his contractual payments. 
The Information Commissioners Office has published guidance on the principles for 
reporting arrears. Crucially, they state under Principle 1 that data that is reported on your 
credit file must be fair [my emphasis], accurate, consistent, complete and up to date. 
I dont think it fair for Mr S to be penalised by taking prompt action to ensure his contractual 
payment was made. The intention behind missed payments and arrears being reported on 
credit files is to a large degree to show prospective lenders about a customers credit 
position, be that potential over-indebtedness, financial difficulties or someones refusal to 
meet their existing commitments. The only reason why such payments have been recorded 
on Mr Ss credit file is because of how Ratesetters systems operate. That to my mind 
doesnt give a fair and accurate picture of Mr Ss ability and commitment to pay his 
contractual payments under the terms of the loan. 
From the account statements Ive seen, Mr S chose to withhold two payments, so his loan 
term reverted to its original length. While I think it risky that Mr S should have done this, as 
this would likely have led to those payments being recorded as late or missing, I can 
understand his reasons for doing so. I think this were borne out of frustration that his two 
manual payments in respect of the April and June 2020 payments had been treated as extra 
payments and had reduced the remaining term of his loan. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I will be upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Putting things right
Im unsure whether this loan has now been fully repaid as I note that the original term was 
due to finish in September 2021. I think the fair way to put things right is for Mr Ss payments 
made to Ratesetter to be treated by Ratesetter as meeting his contractual payments on time. 
It appears that Ratesetter says that they arent able to rework Mr Ss account in this way. If 
they are unable to do this, Ratesetter must ensure that their records are updated in some 
way to show this information so that Mr S for example doesnt receive further arrears letters 
or incur any charges as a result of this issue. 
Ratesetter must also ensure that the respective credit reference agencies are updated so 
that there are no missed or late payments showing on Mr Ss credit file. 
Finally, Ratesetter should pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him. Mr S has asked for a substantially larger sum to take into account the impact 
this matter has had on his credit file and the length of time adverse information has been 
reported. Although I dont find that it fair for Mr Ss credit file to have missed payments 
shown, I am also mindful that this has come about because of how Ratesetters systems operate and I am conscious that deviating from that wasnt something they were likely to do 
given the circumstances. As such, I consider that £100 is an appropriate award. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Retail Money Market Limited needs to take 
the action Ive outlined in the above section of my decision.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman