DRN-2888510
The complaint
Mr B complains about the repairs that AXA Insurance UK Plc carried out on his car after a 
claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged, and AXA took it for repair. But Mr B said rectification work was 
required 10 times. He said the car still pulled to one side. He said this was confirmed by 
three road tests carried out by garages. AXA said its appointed garage, a main dealer, had 
looked at the car and had said there were no further problems. But AXA said it would have 
the garage look at the car again. It paid Mr B £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its level of service. 
Mr B was unhappy with this. He wanted AXA to compensate him for stress and the effect 
this had on his health. He wanted it to provide either a replacement car or compensation for 
its value.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought it 
was reasonable for AXA to have the car looked at again by the main dealer. And she thought 
AXA should refund Mr B for the costs of the independent road tests. But she thought it didnt 
need to compensate Mr B further for his trouble and upset. She explained that she couldnt 
determine whether or not a car was beyond economical repair. 
Mr B replied that AXA hadnt repaired his car, as shown by the independent road tests. He 
agreed for AXA to look at his car one last time, on the proviso that if it couldnt repair it then it 
should compensate him for the cost of the car. Mr B asked for his complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to AXA on 24 May 2021. I summarise my findings:
I could understand Mr Bs frustration that it has taken so long for his car to be repaired. Mr B 
wanted me to consider a number of questions about the role of corporations and insurers in 
general. But its not my role to do this. My role is to consider the particular complaint he has 
brought against AXA and whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I looked at Mr Bs policy and I couldnt say that AXA was required by its terms and conditions 
to restore his car or provide its cash value. I think AXA is required to repair his car. And I 
could see that Mr B thought this hasnt been done satisfactorily. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. 
Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered 
all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional 
repairs.
AXA first took Mr Bs car for repairs in January 2019. I could see that Mr B was unhappy with 
its service as he was kept on hold for long periods and didnt receive the courtesy car he 
expected promptly. He also said some money went missing from his car, but I didnt see 
evidence to confirm this.
Mr B first reported that the car was pulling to the left after it was first returned by the 
approved repairer. Rectification work was agreed. By April 2019, rectification work had been 
done four times. The approved repairer and the main dealer deemed the car fixed, but Mr B 
remained unhappy with the steering. 
Further work was done by the main dealer three times, including repairs to a slightly buckled 
rear wheel, between May 2019 and July 2019. I saw that an alloy wheel was removed and 
replaced. The main dealer confirmed that the car was fixed. So, from AXAs point of view, 
the car was now repaired. But from Mr Bs point of view, it had taken 10 attempts over six 
months to do this, causing Mr B inconvenience and frustration. 
In September 2019, AXA responded to Mr Bs complaint about the initial repairs and that 
further rectification had been required. It paid Mr B £100 compensation for this. But I didnt 
think this was sufficient. 
I thought Mr B could reasonably expect his car to be fully repaired on the first attempt. I 
could see that he was caused stress and inconvenience by having to take the car back for 
further repairs. Mr B wanted AXA to consider his loss of income caused by being without a 
car at times. But I couldnt see that the policy provided for this. And Id expect Mr B to 
mitigate his losses if a courtesy car wasnt available by looking for alternative transport. 
So I thought AXA should pay Mr B £150 further compensation for its delays in repairing his 
car. I thought this was in keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances. 
AXA said in September 2019 that the main dealer had confirmed that there were no further 
problems with Mr Bs car. From what I could see, the car had been taken to the main dealer 
in June 2019 when Mr B reported the car was pulling to the left and repairs were made.
But Mr B still insisted that his car was pulling to the left. I could see that hed provided three 
independent reports from garages which had road tested his car and found this problem. In 
response, AXA said that Mr B should have his car checked again at the main dealers. Mr B 
then declined this offer as hed already been there twice. But Mr B has now agreed to return 
his car to the main dealer to have the problem looked into. So I thought AXA should now 
contact Mr B to arrange this. 
When theres a disagreement between an insurer and a consumer about repairs, we usually 
recommend that an independent assessor is appointed to provide a report. In this case, I 
could see that when Mr B was unhappy with the approved repairer, AXA arranged for a main 
dealer to inspect his car. I thought that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances as the 
main dealer would most likely have the equipment and expertise to identify any problem. So 
I didnt think AXA needed to appoint an independent engineer to assess the car at present.
But I thought that if the main dealer couldnt identify and resolve the issue with the car pulling 
to the left, as shown by the three road tests, then I thought the onus was on Mr B to provide 
his own independent engineers report to show the cause of the problem. If he provided this 
report, and it showed that the problem was related to his claim, then I thought AXA should 
reasonably refund him this cost and repair the problem.  
Mr B remained unhappy with AXAs decision and provided his own reports to evidence that 
the problem continued. I thought AXA should reasonably reimburse him for these costs, 
£97.99.
So, in summary, I couldnt say that AXA had justified its decision not to pay for additional 
repairs to Mr Bs car. I also thought the amount of rectification work over six months 
warranted further compensation.Subject to any further representations by Mr B or AXA, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the 
following:
1. Arrange with Mr B for his car to be inspected and further repaired at the main dealers 
garage.
2. If this isnt successful, consider an independent engineers report provided by Mr B to 
show that the ongoing problem is related to the accident. If this is confirmed, then AXA 
should reimburse Mr B for the cost of the report and carry out the needed repairs. 
3. Pay Mr B £150 further compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
need to have repeated rectification work done over six months. 
4. Refund Mr B £97.99 for the cost of the independent road tests he had done. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA replied that it was happy with my provisional decision. Mr B replied with points of 
clarification and observations and Ive considered them all, but I will respond to those that I 
think affect my decision.
I explained above my thoughts on how AXA should put things right. Mr B thought hed only 
been compensated for being without a courtesy car, not for the repeated rectification work. 
But I think the additional £150 compensation is sufficient for the impact of this. 
Mr B raised issues about his contractual relationship with AXA. I agree that his policy forms 
a contract between AXA and himself and I have considered above whether AXA has 
complied with the policy terms and conditions. But I cant see that AXA is required to provide 
Mr B with his cars cash value or restore it. I think its required to repair his car and to justify 
its decision not to pay for further repairs. And, as Ive said above, I think it hasnt done this. 
Mr B thought that my decision should include consideration of what would happen if the car 
remained unrepaired. I agree that the repairs have taken some time already and Ive 
required AXA to repair it. AXA has agreed with my provisional decision. So I think the 
redress Ive decided goes far enough.  
Mr B was unhappy with my requirement for him to obtain an independent assessors report. 
But this would only be required if he remains unhappy with the repairs after a further 
investigation and repairs made by AXA. I think its the responsibility of a consumer to prove 
that they have a valid claim. If AXA then maintains that the car has been repaired, I think its 
fair and reasonable for Mr B to prove that any ongoing problem is related to his claim. 
So, having considered Mr Bs response, I maintain my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
1. Arrange with Mr B for his car to be inspected and further repaired at the main dealers 
garage.
2. If this isnt successful, consider an independent engineers report provided by Mr B to 
show that the ongoing problem is related to the accident. If this is confirmed, then AXA 
should reimburse Mr B for the cost of the report and carry out the needed repairs. 
3. Pay Mr B £150 further compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
need to have repeated rectification work done over six months. 
4. Refund Mr B £97.99 for the cost of the independent road tests he had done.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman