DRN-2257622
The complaint
Ms H complains Automobile Insurance Services (AA) should refund the cost of her policy as 
she was unable to read the full terms and conditions and her claim was declined. Shes also 
unhappy with AAs customer service.
What happened
On 5 August 2019, Ms H bought a roadside assistance policy online for a short European 
trip. The policy was due to end on 8 August 2019. She says she was traveling on 5 August.
Ms H tried to make a claim on the policy on 6 August 2019 when her car broke down. AA 
declined the claim as the policy terms and conditions wouldnt cover her as the car didnt 
hold a valid MOT.  Ms H complained to AA that:
- She hadnt been able to fully view her policy terms and conditions on her mobile 
phone on the day she bought it as she needed an application (app) which she 
couldnt download. 
- She spent 4 hours trying to contact the AA through the chat function online and on 
the phone but was unable to get through to a representative. 
- She took out the cover in good faith but them, AA wouldnt help when she needed it.
AA didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. It said the terms and conditions on their website are 
shown as a web page and an app isnt needed to view the policy. Even so, it couldnt see 
any reason why Ms H wouldnt have been able to get through to it. Also, AA confirmed:
- it conducted 36 chats during their operating hours of 8am to 6pm on the day Mrs H 
said she couldnt get through. 
- their average call wait times that day were between 2  4 minutes and, during the 
time Ms H said shed called, under a minute. 
Ms H was unhappy with this so she came to our service. To put things right, Ms A wants her 
insurance premium refunded and £30 for the poor customer service she has experienced. 
Our investigator looked into matters and thought AA acted fairly. This is because it wouldve 
been Ms Hs responsibility to check the terms and conditions before buying the policy. He 
noted a link to the policy documents and terms is given at multiple points throughout the 
online journey to buy the policy. And the link opens into the mobile phone browser without 
the use of any apps. Further, there is no evidence to suggest why Ms H couldnt make 
contact on the day of the sale. So, he didnt uphold her complaint. 
Ms H disagrees. She said AA didnt send her an invoice or copy of her policy by email or 
post and so she asked our investigator to reconsider.
Our investigator thought about the point made by Ms H. He discovered AA didnt send the 
policy terms and conditions by email, and this was an error in their final response letter to Ms 
H. But this didnt make a difference to his view. This is because the evidence showed the 
policy terms and conditions could be viewed online before buying the policy. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms H that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
As a policy sold online, AA needed to give Ms H information which was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I think it did this. It was for Ms H to check this information to decide if the policy 
was suitable for her, taking this information into account, before she bought it. I havent seen 
any evidence that she wasnt able to access the terms online  no app was needed  and 
she was given a link to the terms at various points throughout the sales process. 
If Ms H had concerns, then its reasonable to have expected her to contact AA and ask any 
questions she had before she bought the policy. Looking at the evidence provided by AA, I 
cant see any reason why Ms H wouldnt have been able to get through to someone on the 
AAs online chat or helpline. And I note Ms H hasnt given us any evidence that tried to do 
this unsuccessfully. Ultimately, Ms H bought the policy for a trip she was making the same 
day without checking if her car, that didnt have a MOT, would be covered. In circumstances 
such as this, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to say AA did anything wrong here.
Ms A tried to make a claim on her policy. However, this was declined as she didnt hold a 
valid MOT at the time her car broke down. But her claim being declined doesnt mean shes 
entitled to a refund of the cost of the policy. Even so, this term isnt unusual. Driving without 
a valid MOT certificate is unlawful and means any car insurance policy isnt valid either. And 
I dont think a consumer would reasonably expect a roadside assistance policy to cover them 
if they were driving illegally and in a car which hadnt been confirmed by the MOT as 
meeting certain roadworthy and safety checks. Even so, as Ive mentioned above, if Ms A 
thought this specific issue was likely to be a problem, I wouldve expected her to do more to 
make contact with AA to check this with them before buying the policy or to contact them for 
a copy of the terms and conditions if this is something she was waiting for. But I cant see 
this is what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman