DRN-3962665
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) unfairly 
declined a claim for storm damage to its property under its Real Estate Insurance policy. 
Mr K, a director of B, brings the complaint on Bs behalf. For ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
comments and actions of Mr K as being those of B.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them at length 
here.
Briefly, B took out a Real Estate Insurance policy with Zurich which includes indemnity for 
material damage and accidental damage cover. 
In February 2022, Bs business premises, which is five stories high, suffered storm damage 
when several roof tiles were blown off the roof. B said it reported the loss to its broker, but it 
didnt hear from the broker or Zurich until May 2022 when a loss adjuster visited Bs property 
to inspect the damage. 
The loss adjuster inspected the damage through the loft and also arranged for some 
photographs to be taken from ground level using a long pole. 
The loss adjuster reported on perished felt arising from multiple instances of water ingress 
and rusting pipework directly beneath the perished felt, demonstrating historical water 
ingress. The loss adjuster also said that an inspection of the roof reported on historical 
repairs with installation of lead straps which have deformed, comprising the repair, as well as 
evidence of new nails. It was also believed that the mortar bedding and ridge tiles had 
perished due to long term weathering with a high chance of lodging if not repaired. 
The loss adjuster said the damage wasnt consistent with a one-off event. From his 
inspection, he felt that there was evidence of historical water ingress, and the damage was 
consistent with wear and tear. 
Zurich didnt agree to paying for the costs claimed by B, they did however say that there 
were times where their service and communication could have been better and B 
experienced unnecessary delays. By way of an apology, they offered £200 compensation. B 
declined Zurichs offer.
B didnt accept Zurichs response to its claim. It maintained that the delays caused by Zurich 
contributed to the damage and therefore Zurich should pay towards the cost of the 
scaffolding and repairs. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Bs complaint should be upheld. She reviewed the 
surveyors report provided by Zurich and the photos of the damage and was persuaded by 
Zurichs loss adjusters assessment of the damage  that historical repairs and gradual wear 
and tear compromised the condition of the roof and this was exposed by the storm. She 
agreed with Zurich that this wasnt covered by Bs policy, so she didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Zurich to decline the claim.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read and carefully considered everything B and Zurich have said. However, my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point that the parties have raised. My 
role here is to decide whether Zurich have acted fairly towards B. 
The main part of Bs complaint is that Zurich unfairly declined its claim, on the grounds that 
while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they werent the main cause of 
the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the condition of the roof, which 
the high winds only highlighted. B doesnt agree, saying the damage was caused by the 
storm and there werent any problems with the roof before the storm.
Bs policy is a perils-based policy, so Zurich is liable for damage caused by certain insured 
events. The damage needs to be caused by one of the insured events listed in its policy. 
Section 9 of Bs policy booklet shows its covered for loss or damage caused by a storm. 
In considering whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing issue, there 
are three key issues we consider: 
 Were there storm conditions?
 Is the damage consistent with storm type damage? 
 Was the storm the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed. 
Both parties accept there was a storm. Local weather records for the area around Bs 
property show wind speeds of over 58mph on 18 February 2022. The Met Offices 
information for the 2021/22 storm season shows that this was storm Eunice, which hit the 
UK that day. So, Ive concluded there were storm conditions present around the date of the 
incident. 
In order to satisfy the remaining considerations from above, wed also expect to see that the 
damage is typical of storm and storm is likely to be the main cause of the damage. This part 
of the consideration is therefore key and its where B and Zurich disagree. Ive considered 
both views carefully, together with the report from Zurichs surveyor and the photographs 
provided by B. Ive also considered the points made by B when responding to our 
investigators view. Taking all these into account, Im not persuaded that storm is likely to be 
the main cause of the damage. Ive therefore concluded Zurich have acted fairly in declining 
Bs claim. Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
B told our investigator that in 2004 its premises suffered severe fire damage at which point 
extensive roofs repairs were carried out. It is therefore not in dispute that historical repairs 
had been carried out to the roof. 
B said that due to the delay in Zurich reviewing its claim, the weather contributed to further 
damage to roof which wouldnt have happened if it had been repaired sooner. Ive reviewed 
a timeline of the events which took place since Zurich was notified of the claim by the broker 
and Ive seen there was some back and forth between the broker and Zurich before a surveyor visited Bs premises. I dont think this time frame was unreasonable. I understand 
that B wasnt able to carry out repairs to the roof sooner, as advised by Zurich, due to the 
height of the building. However, when an insurer is dealing with a claim, I think some time 
lag is expected, as weve seen here, and I think thats reasonable. So, if there is more 
rainfall during this time, theres always a risk of further water penetration. While I think its 
likely this may have happened, Im not persuaded that it would have contributed much to the 
overall damage already caused. In any event, Ive not seen any evidence that the damage 
worsened due to the delay in repairing the roof. 
On inspection of the roof and loft space, Zurichs surveyor reported there was perished felt in 
the loft where daylight could be seen and evidence of historical water ingress. B has said 
that this was as a result of the fire which happened in 2004. It explained that the fire services 
pulled the felt away and pumped tons of water in to put out the fire which has left the loft 
space in its current condition and the felt missing. Im not persuaded by Bs explanation that 
the roof was left in this condition following the repairs which took place in 2004  perished 
felt where daylight could be seen from inside. Even if I was to accept this, I cant be satisfied 
that there hasnt been water ingress as a result of it since 2004. 
The surveyor also reported on perished ridge mortar due to long term weathering. Although I 
appreciate Bs comments that this was not near the area of damage claimed for, I agree with 
the investigator that this is really the surveyor commenting on the overall condition of the 
roof.  
The surveyor said there was also evidence of historical repairs using lead straps however 
the lead straps had deformed, subsequently compromising the repair. B says this was as a 
result of the initial tiles falling and the lack of immediate repair which caused further damage. 
In order for the lead straps to damage in this way, I think the weather would have had to 
continue to be very extreme and Ive not seen any evidence of this so Im not persuaded that 
the lead straps would have been damaged in this way. 
Zurichs surveyor provided a detailed expert opinion backed up with a thorough report and 
photographs. Although B has said it doesnt agree with Zurichs reasons for declining the 
claim, apart from its own comments, it hasnt provided any expert opinion or evidence to 
support its version of events. In particular, that the damage was caused by storm and isnt 
related to wear and tear. 
Having considered the report from Zurichs surveyor and the photographs provided, Im more 
persuaded that the underlying cause of the damage is due to gradual deterioration of the 
roof overtime. I dont dispute that the strong winds caused some roof tiles to blow off. But a 
well-maintained roof, in good condition, should be able to withstand storm force winds, such 
as that B experienced. 
From what Ive seen, it seems to me like the roof was already in poor condition and suffering 
from general deterioration. In my opinion its more likely than not the damage to the roof was 
caused by wear and tear over a period of time as described by Zurichs surveyor. So on 
balance, I think the decision that Zurich have come to, that the damage to the roof isnt 
covered by the policy, was fair.
Bs policy does also provide cover for accidental damage however wear and tear is 
specifically excluded under this section of the policy. I therefore agree with the investigator 
that there is no cover under the accidental damage section of the policy either. 
Taking everything into account, I think that Zurichs decision to decline the claim, on the 
basis that the damage was mostly caused by wear and tear over a period of time, was fair 
and reasonable. I understand that this wont be the outcome that B wouldve liked but I cant reasonably ask Zurich to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
If B would like to accept the £200 compensation Zurich offered for its service and 
communication, it should contact Zurich directly to arrange payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman