DRN-3335923
The complaint
Mr G complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr G with a loan as follows:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly repayment
20/06/2018 £1,200 18 months £133.85
When Mr G complained to 118 118 Money it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. After completing his 
investigation, he didnt think that 118 118 Money had done anything wrong when it provided 
the loan. Our adjudicator explained why he was recommending that the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld.   
Mr G disagreed with our adjudicators view. He mainly said that 118 118 Money could have 
done more to prevent the loan being issued.
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint so it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Id like to reassure Mr G that I've looked at the complaint afresh and independently reviewed 
all the available information, including what Mr G said in response to our adjudicators view. 
Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
Lenders must work out if a borrower can sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside 
other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just 
checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a 
proportionate check might also require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr G about his income and expenses 
before it agreed the loan. It completed income verification with a third party and checked 
Mr Gs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 
The credit checks 118 118 Money carried out showed that Mr G wasnt involved in any sort 
of arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county 
court judgements registered and no significant recent defaults on his record. 
I think its fair to say that all the information 118 118 Money had gathered tended to suggest 
that Mr G seemed to be managing his credit without any signs that he had a serious debt or 
spending problem. Whilst the credit checks 118 118 Money obtained showed that Mr G had 
previously had some money problems, and he was at the limit of his available credit, the 
repayments on his active accounts were up to date and it didnt look like he was having any 
difficulty keeping up with repayments. 
He was slightly over the credit limit on one of his credit cards but only by a small amount 
which looked more like a money management issue rather than a sign that he couldnt afford 
his credit commitments. It looked like he was paying only one other loan taken out around 
7 months earlier  the lenders credit checks didnt show any payment problems on that 
account.
It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have other debt  and 
sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these wouldnt necessarily be fair reasons 
not to lend. I dont think the amount of debt shown on Mr Gs credit checks was excessive 
having regard to his income or that anything else revealed in the credit checks 118 118 
Money carried out was enough for me to say that a responsible lender shouldve realised it 
needed to find out more before lending or that it should have refused the loan application 
altogether. 
Mr G says 118 118 Money shouldve known he was in financial difficulties at the time it lent 
to him and hes mentioned that a number of loans were removed from his credit file. But that 
makes no difference  Ive been able to see the same information that 118 118 Money 
looked at when it made its lending decision. 118 118 Money had to decide Mr Gs lending 
application based on the information it was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for 118 118 Money to lend here  especially as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr G wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. 
The loan appeared to be affordable looking at Mr Gs income and expenditure. 
And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required 118 118 Money to probe any more 
deeply into Mr Gs finances or ask Mr G to prove what he was declaring (by requiring him to 
send in his bank statements for instance) or check other information sources to verify what 
he had told the lender (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I accept that Mr Gs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information 118 118 Money obtained. And I think its 
worth mentioning that when a lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees 
doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and it isnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, 
or some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. 
So, this may explain any differences if Mr G feels 118 118 Money didnt have the full picture 
when it lent to him if he failed to mention information that isnt shown in 118 118 Moneys 
own credit checks.
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In 
this case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Mr G. 
For these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this is a disappointing 
outcome for Mr G but hope setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my conclusions. 
If Mr G would like help to manage his spending theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can provide contact details if he 
gives us a call. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman