DRN-2778398
The complaint
Miss J complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she fell victim to a 
scam. 
What happened
In August 2020 Miss J fell victim to a scam. 
The background to this case is known to both parties, so I wont repeat it here. But in 
summary, in August 2020, Miss J made a payment of £990 from her Revolut account. This 
was after shed received a call from somebody claiming to be from a government body, 
saying her tax returns had been incorrect for several years. Miss J says the call was 
sophisticated with her being told there were failed attempts to contact her by letter. Miss Js 
told us this was all very likely since she filed returns as she is self-employed and changed 
address several times, including being out of the country often.
The caller told her she needed to make a payment in order to settle the charges. Shes told 
us that as she didnt have the money in her account, her partner transferred £1,000 and she 
then made the payment of £990 to the bank details she was asked to make the payment to 
in order to settle the charges. But unknown to Miss J at the time, the payment she made was 
to fraudsters.
Once Miss J had made the payment, she was asked to send documents and receipts via a 
messaging app. It was at this point Miss J realised she may have been the victim of a scam. 
On realising this she reported the matter to Revolut. Miss J says Revolut wouldnt investigate 
the matter without a report from the police. She reported the matter to the police and 
provided Revolut with the details the same day. On 2 September 2020 Revolut contacted the 
beneficiary bank in an attempt to recover the funds. It received a reply on 5 September 2020 
to say no funds remained.  
Miss J complained to Revolut. It said its unable to refund Miss J the money she has lost 
because the transfer was made by her and that it followed her instructions to make the 
transfer. Revolut has said once it was told about the scam, it tried to retrieve the funds, but 
this was not possible as the funds had already been withdrawn. 
Miss J remained unhappy and so brought her complaint to our service  she believes 
Revolut should have taken preventative actions and attempts to retrieve the funds before 
they were gone.  
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think Revolut could have done anything 
to prevent the scam  she didnt consider the payment Miss J made was particularly unusual 
or suspicious in its appearance. She recognised in the six months prior to the scam payment 
Miss J hadnt made any payments of this amount or more, but didnt think a one-off payment 
of £990 ought to have caused Revolut concern that she might be at risk of financial harm. 
Our investigator added that in the six months prior to the scam payment she could see 
Miss Js partner had transferred funds to her a number of times and that the scam payment 
did not clear the account balance. And, while she thought Revolut could have acted sooner 
when contacting the receiving bank once aware of the scam, she didnt think this would have 
made any difference  as the funds had been moved from the receiving bank account so 
quickly. 
Miss J didnt accept our investigators view. In summary (but not limited to), Miss J said she 
didnt use her account regularly for over a year before the scam took place. That she does 
not believe it was a usual transaction from her account. She says there was a delay in 
contacting the beneficiary bank and she believes had immediate action been taken this 
could have been prevented. 
So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
For completeness, I understand Miss J has raised a complaint against the receiving bank. 
But I should point out that in this decision, I have solely focused on the complaint about 
Revolut in its capacity as the bank from which the funds were sent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss J, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about Revoluts actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to 
leave Miss Js account. I also dont think it could have recovered the money from the 
receiving bank, even if it had acted quicker than it did. 
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Miss Js complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly say Revolut should 
reimburse her the £990 she has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Revolut should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. - In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss J, when she made the transfer to a fraudster and when she reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Miss J accepts she authorised the transfer. Because of this, Revolut had an obligation to 
follow her instruction. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a 
closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained. I consider that 
as a matter of good practice Revolut shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions. 
Ive first thought about whether the payment Miss J made was out of character and unusual. 
And as recognised by our investigator, I agree in the six months prior to the scam payment 
Miss J hadnt made any payments for this amount or more. I can also see there was a credit 
of £1,000 into the account from Miss Js partner to facilitate the transfer. When thinking 
about this, I need to keep in mind that it is not untypical for consumers to make one-off 
payments from their accounts from time to time. 
And when looking at the previous account usage I can see Miss Js partner had previously 
made credits into the account prior to the scam payment. The scam payment also didnt 
leave the account in a negative balance. Once the credit came into the account and the 
payment had been made, the account balance was higher than what it had been prior to the 
credit and payment. 
Revolut has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But on 
balance, I cant fairly say the transaction was so unusual or suspicious that it ought to have 
alerted Revolut that Miss J was at risk of financial harm and Im not persuaded Revolut acted 
unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payment before processing it.
Ive gone on to think about whether Revolut did what it shouldve done once Miss J reported 
to it, that shed been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts Revolut made to 
recover the money, once Miss J reported the scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask 
Revolut to refund the money to Miss J, I need to be satisfied that Revolut should have acted 
sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to 
decide whether it made any difference. 
In this case I think Revolut could have acted sooner than it did in contacting the receiving 
bank. Because of this, Ive gone on to consider whether it made any difference. Here Ive 
seen from the receiving bank that money Miss J transferred, was removed from the receiving 
account very quickly and before Miss J reported the scam to Revolut. So even if Revolut had 
contacted the receiving bank as soon as Miss J had told it about the scam, it wouldnt have 
made any difference and it wouldnt have been able to recover the money Miss J had paid 
the fraudster. Its very unfortunate Miss J has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam, 
and I understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for her. But 
when considering all of the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Revolut should have 
done more to prevent her losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask 
Revolut to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Js complaint against 
Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman