DRN-2053943
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined her claim for 
water damage.
What happened
Mrs E had buildings and contents insurance, excluding accidental damage, with Lloyds. 
The skylight in her loft was leaking and Mrs E paid a builder to replace it. The leak was due 
to the skylight being old and Mrs E didnt claim for the cost of replacing it. She saw that the 
leak had damaged her wallpaper and ceiling, so she called Lloyds to make a claim. 
Mrs E told Lloyds that the damage had happened during a bad spell of weather a couple of 
months before. Lloyds checked weather reports for the area, but it didnt see any evidence of 
a storm. It declined the claim, which Mrs E accepted at the time.
Mrs E made a complaint to Lloyds because she hadnt claimed for storm damage, yet it had 
declined her claim as if she had. Lloyds explained that because her policy didnt include 
accidental damage, it could only consider a claim for storm damage. It declined Mrs Es 
claim but offered to reconsider it if she provided a builders report explaining the cause of the 
damage.
Mrs E remained unhappy with Lloyds response.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought it was right that Lloyds had 
considered storm damage because Mrs Es policy wouldve covered that. But, as she 
confirmed the damage wasnt caused by a one-off incident of bad weather, he agreed with 
Lloyds that the damage wasnt covered.
Mrs E didnt agree, and she asked for a further review.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise Mrs E will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Ive listened to the call that Mrs E first made to Lloyds and its clear to me that she wasnt 
making a claim for storm damage. She described the damage as something which had 
happened over the last couple of months because of the leaking skylight. She also 
confirmed that the skylight leaked because it was old and needed replacing. Mrs E paid to 
replace the skylight and she hasnt asked Lloyds to cover that cost. I believe thats because 
shes fully aware it was a maintenance need, and insurance doesnt cover the cost of 
maintaining a property.
However, as I understand it, Mrs E does think Lloyds should cover the cost of the additional 
damage, caused by the water which had leaked through the skylight causing her ceiling 
plaster to fall away and damage her blind and wallpaper.
So, Ive looked at why Lloyds declined Mrs Es claim based on whether there were storm 
conditions and I think its because it was the only insurable event that mightve covered the 
damage. Mrs E said the damage to her ceiling, blind and wallpaper was a one-off incident. I 
can understand why she might think that  the damage appeared to her as a one-off incident 
because it became apparent suddenly. But the damage was caused over a longer period of 
time, and I know Mrs E is aware of that because its how she described events to Lloyds. 
Lloyds looked at whether there was a storm because it mightve been able to consider the 
claim. But there wasnt any record of storm conditions in the months leading up to Mrs Es 
claim. 
Ive also considered the General Exclusions in Mrs Es policy, which states:
Uninsurable causes
Any loss or damage caused by:
A gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period of 
time.
So, having looked at what Lloyds told Mrs E  that damage which happened gradually isnt 
covered - Im satisfied that it responded to her claim fairly.
Ive gone on to look at whether Lloyds shouldve considered Mrs Es claim under another 
part of her policy. But Mrs E didnt take out accidental damage cover for either buildings or 
contents, so its reasonable that Lloyds didnt consider her claim other than for storm 
damage. Even if Mrs E had included accidental damage, its likely that Lloyds would still 
have declined her claim. 
The policy states:
Buildings - optional accidental damage cover
What we don't cover 
Loss or damage caused by water entering your home other than by storm or flood.
Weve established that there wasnt a storm.
In summary, Mrs E was only covered for storm damage. Neither she nor Lloyds think there 
was a single storm or other incident which caused the damage to the ceiling, blind and 
wallpaper, so it was fair for Lloyds to decline her claim.
Lloyds has said it will consider her claim again if Mrs E provides it with a builders report 
detailing the cause of the damage. I think thats a fair offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman