DRN-1704738
 
The complaint
Mr N complains that hes suffered significant financial loss as a result of Cofunds Limiteds 
inability to administer his investment correctly. 
In summary, hes unhappy about receiving incorrect advice which prevented him from 
transferring his funds (online) into a cash reserve in a timely manner. 
 
What happened
Mr Ns ISA was initially administered by Legal and General Investor Portfolio Services, which 
then moved to Aegon, with the purchase of the Cofunds business.  
Cofunds partially upheld the complaint. In summary, it says:
It accepts that it gave Mr N incorrect information about the proposed transfer online. 
Incorrectly suggesting that he had to have a form resulted in delays. 
Had it talked him through the process, the transfer wouldve happened the next day  
on 12 October, on the basis that he made the request on 11 October  in which case 
Mr N wouldve received £32,927.56, instead of the lower amount he received later.
It offered to pay Mr N the difference (£326.11) in order to put him in the position he 
wouldve been in had the error not occurred. 
It doesnt believe the fund change wouldve completed on 1 October 2018 as 
suggested by Mr N. 
Mr N was initially sent the password in 2012, but it had expired because it hadnt 
been used and therefore he had to be re-sent a new one in the post (for security 
reasons). 
Its records show that Mr N didnt try and complete the switch until 11 October 2018 
and therefore doesnt believe the date of compensation should be backdated.  
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
He accepts that Cofunds gave Mr N incorrect advice on 11 October 2018, resulting in 
delays. If Mr N had been given the correct advice, namely that he couldve 
transferred his funds online or over the telephone, and didnt need to submit any 
forms in the post or accept the terms and conditions before proceeding  the 
transaction wouldve completed by 12 October 2018.  
Cofunds offer to refund the difference in the value, had the transfer been made on 
11 October 2019 was fair and reasonable.
Although Mr N would like the date calculation to start on 1 October 2018, the 
investigator doesnt agree. Hes seen nothing to suggest that Mr N had made the 
request on that date. Cofunds decision to backdate any losses from the day he made his intention to 
transfer known (namely 11 October) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Cofunds offer to pay another £200 compensation for trouble and upset caused is fair 
and reasonable.  
He was unable to consider the part of the complaint that was in relation to the annual 
loyalty bonus because Cofunds hadnt been given an opportunity to consider it first.  
 
Mr N disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, he said:
Despite conceding that it made mistakes, Cofunds still doesnt accept that it deprived 
him of his loyalty bonus, because it wrongly switched the rest of his funds to a new 
version of the investment fund. This part of the complaint was made very clear to 
Cofunds.  
The investigator placed too much focus (in isolation) on the call recordings. 
Hed been under the impression that once Cofunds had taken over the administration 
of his investment itd keep all its existing customers up to date. Unlike its 
predecessor, it hasnt kept him up to date about online processes including login 
details. 
Cofunds waited until just before he wanted to make a transaction to make clear the 
position regarding the online transfers and passwords which is unacceptable. 
When he called up about the password he was told itd take a couple of days, but he 
didnt receive it until seven days later resulting in delays. During this time the value of 
his investments decreased significantly. 
 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
He accepts that Mr N complained to Cofunds about the loyalty bonus, but that part of 
the complaint needs to be made to the third-party business, as this was an activity it 
started to undertake in 2015.
Hes listened to the calls Mr N refers to, but having done so hes not persuaded that 
Mr N made clear what should happen to the funds. 
Despite receiving his passwords, it would seem Mr N was waiting to see if the funds 
would recover, rather than take steps to transfer immediately. So despite taking a 
number of working days to receive the password, it hasnt had an impact on what 
happened with the share prices. 
Mr N has made no new points that persuade him to change his mind. 
 
Mr N doesnt agree with the investigators conclusions and maintains that Cofunds is 
responsible for dealing with the issue about his loyalty bonus. He doesnt agree that his 
contact with Cofunds wasnt about how quickly he could transfer his funds.  But as a result of 
the business failures he significantly lost out.    
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the business was right to uphold the 
complaint, I also think its offer to pay £326.11 for the losses incurred by the delays plus £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.   
I understand that Mr Ns complaint about the loyalty bonus is being deal with separately and 
therefore its not something Ill be commenting upon in this case. 
But before I proceed, I think its important for me to note I very much recognise Mr Ns 
strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr N and Cofunds, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened. 
Because Cofunds upheld the complaint the key issue for me to consider is redress and 
whether or the date of calculation should begin on 1 October 2018 or 11 October as 
proposed by the business. 
In my opinion, Cofunds couldnt have known in advance when Mr N wanted to make a 
transaction, and therefore couldnt have second guessed items that he might be missing, 
when he did eventually want to. So I dont think it deliberately waited until Mr N wanted to 
make a transaction before telling him what he was missing in an effort to frustrate his 
intentions.   
I understand that in 2012 Mr N was sent a passcode enabling him to use the online facilities 
but it had expired because it was unused. For reasons of security and protecting Mr Ns 
assets I dont think this was unreasonable or unusual, in fact its common industry practice 
with pin numbers and passcodes that have been sent out but havent been used for a long 
period of time.
So thats the reason why on 1 October Mr N had to call up Cofunds to try and get a valid 
passcode, and is the reason why  through no fault of his own or Cofunds for that matter  
he wouldnt have been able to transfer the ISA that day regardless of his overall intention. 
And given the explanation above, I also cant blame Cofunds for Mr N needing a new 
passcode and any delays that mightve arisen from him obtaining one. But the fact he 
needed a new password in the first place wasnt Cofunds fault, and therefore Im unable to 
attribute the loss in value to Cofunds. 
If the date and timing of the transaction was so crucial, Mr N couldve tried to transfer his 
funds sooner (and therefore contacted Cofunds sooner for the passcode) to make sure that 
he had everything he needed to make a successful transfer. Im conscious Mr N was also waiting to see how the Brexit issue panned out so chose not to try and transfer his funds 
sooner but I dont think I can blame Cofunds for this.  
I appreciate that from when Mr N called Cofunds about the passcode he was told that the 
password would take a couple of days but in reality it took around a week. But I dont think 
Cofunds couldve reasonably done anymore to get the information to him sooner. I 
understand that it had to be sent by post and Cofunds cant be held responsible for the 
actions of a third-party postal service. 
Im mindful of the points Mr N makes about the take-over of the predecessor business 
responsible for the administration of his ISA. But thats a matter between the previous 
business and Cofunds, its not something that our service would get involved in. This 
process doesnt require Mr Ns consent. 
Cofunds is also free to impose its own rules and regulations after its acquisition of the 
predecessor business, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement. 
On balance I think Cofunds was right to calculate the redress from 11 October 2018 as the 
date from when Mr N tried to conduct the transfer but was given incorrect information. And 
had he been given the correct information the transaction wouldve completed the next day. 
So in the circumstances I dont think Cofunds is responsible for further losses. 
I also think Cofunds offer to pay Mr N £200 compensation for the overall distress and 
inconvenience suffered is generous, fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr N will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything else.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what 
he wants. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the offer made by Cofunds Limited is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman