DRN-4077443
The complaint
Mrs M complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL) trying to 
recover the cost of repairs for her car from her after she claimed on her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs M had a policy with AAUICL which was due to renew. AAUICL wrote to Mrs M to let her 
know and provided her policy documents for the next year. Mrs M found a cheaper quote 
with another insurer and so cancelled the renewal with AAUICL. 
Around six months later, Mrs M was involved in a car accident with a third party. She 
therefore looked for her car insurance documents and found the ones AAUICL had sent 
when her previous policy was due to renew. Mrs M therefore called AAUICL to report the 
claim. 
AAUICL accepted the claim, collected Mrs Ms car and repaired it for her. Mrs M was then 
contacted by her car insurer who I shall refer to as insurer B. Insurer B said it had received 
a claim from the third party and asked Mrs M about the details of the claim. She explained 
that she was insured with AAUICL, and it was handling the claim and so she must be dual 
insured. Because of this she asked for insurer B to cancel the policy she had with it, which it 
did and back dated it to the start of the policy. 
AAUICL then discovered that Mrs M had cancelled the renewal of her policy and so she 
didnt have a policy with it which covered her for this accident. Because of this, AAUICL 
asked Mrs M to repay the repair costs and directed the third party to recover its costs directly 
from Mrs M.  
Mrs M didnt think this was fair and complained. She agreed shed called the wrong insurer, 
but by AAUICL dealing with a claim it shouldnt have meant she was now being chased by 
the third party for the damage to their car, being asked by AAUICL to repay the repair costs 
to her car and also had been notified that shed been driving without insurance. Mrs M also 
said AAUICL and insurer B had recorded claims on the Claims Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE) database which meant she was finding it harder to get insurance. 
AAUICL reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It acknowledges that due to a system 
error it had dealt with Mrs Ms claim when it shouldnt have been able to. However, when it 
had checked for another insurer for the incident it found that insurer Bs policy was showing 
as being cancelled the day after the policy with AAUICL was supposed to renew. And as 
there was therefore no insurer showing for the accident AAUICL felt it was fair for the third 
party to recover its costs from her privately. AAUICL also said as Mrs Ms car had been 
repaired when it shouldnt have that shed gained a financial benefit and so didnt agree to 
award any compensation. Mrs M didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint here, 
she said shed always made sure she had insurance and it was only down to an oversight of 
calling the wrong insurer which now meant she was left with no cover. 
Our investigator reviewed Mrs Ms complaints about AAUICL and insurer B. He 
recommended insurer B reinstate the policy for Mrs B as it had been in place at the time of 
the accident. Insurer B agreed to do this as the policy had been in place with it at the time. 
As insurer B agreed to deal with Mrs Ms claim it meant Mrs M wouldnt be chased for the 
third partys costs, as she was now showing as correctly insured and meant AAUICL could 
recover its outlay from insurer B. 
Our investigator therefore recommended AAUICL pay Mrs M £500 for the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience it caused by dealing with Mrs Ms claim when it shouldnt have.  
AAUICL didnt agree. It said insurer B had been in contact and its financial costs were being 
directed to insurer B. Therefore, Mrs M had avoided paying her excess, paying for the 
repairs to her car and the third party claim costs. AAUICL said it had paid the repairer for the 
repairs to Mrs Ms car and that a payment plan could have been arranged with them. It 
therefore felt the compensation was too high and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
As AAUICL didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree AAUICL made an error in accepting Mrs Ms claim and repairing her 
car I see no reason to revisit that here. Ill therefore focus my decision on whether Im 
satisfied AAUICL has done enough to put things right. And Im not persuaded it has. 
While Im pleased to see AAUICL acknowledge its error. Im not persuaded Mrs M has been 
fairly compensated for AAUICLs error. However, I have also taken into account that this 
situation only arose due to Mrs M calling the wrong insurer. 
While I understand Mrs M called the incorrect insurer, due to a system error it meant 
AAUICL incorrectly handled her claim. Which meant she was surprised when insurer B 
contacted her about a third party claim and cancelled the policy. This resulted in Mrs M 
having two claims recorded on an external database, she was chased by the third party for 
its repair costs and had AAUICL seeking to recover thousands of pounds in repairs costs for 
Mrs Ms car. This is exactly the situation Mrs M wished to avoid by having fully 
comprehensive insurance. She also had the worry of being told shed been driving without 
insurance as neither insurance policy was showing as live for the incident. 
This whole situation took almost six months to rectify and ultimately wouldnt have happened 
if AAUICL had confirmed that Mrs M cancelled her renewal when she called up to claim. Im 
therefore satisfied that AAUICL caused Mrs M unnecessary distress and inconvenience over 
several months. To compensate her for this Im persuaded £500 is a fair and reasonable 
amount for the distress and inconvenience caused. Therefore, to put things right, AAUICL 
need to pay Mrs M £500 for distress and inconvenience. It should also remove the record of 
the claim from any internal and external databases, as it should never have dealt with it. And 
for clarity AAUICL needs to not recover any of its financial outlay from Mrs M as it can now 
recover that from insurer B. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mrs M £500 compensation for distress and inconvenienceRemove the record of it dealing with the claim from internal and external databases
Redirect its recovery to insurer B and not pursue Mrs M for its financial outlay
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman