DRN-1643266
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt give her adequate 
notice her income protection policy ended when she reached the age of 60.
What happened
Mrs V was a member of a group income protection scheme provided by her employer. The 
group policy provided Mrs V with a proportion of her income if she was unable to perform the 
material and substantial duties of her own occupation. In 2017 Mrs V had an operation and 
was unable to work, so claimed under the policy. At the end of the deferred period Mrs V 
received full benefit for a period. She then received proportionate benefit when she started a 
phased return to work. Under her phased return to work plan Mrs V was due to start full time 
hours from 5 August 2019. On 21 May 2019 Mrs Vs employer told her that benefit would 
end on her 60th birthday in June 2019. As Mrs V wasnt given much notice of this end date 
Aviva agreed to pay her a further months benefit by way of apology and to compensate her.
Mrs V is unhappy she wasnt told of the plan end date sooner. She said Aviva provided her 
with a substantial amount of support in returning to work and her phased return to full-time 
hours extended beyond her 60th birthday. Mrs V said she had to make a choice between 
rushing back to work to protect her income or continuing with a phased return and accepting 
a lower income. As a result, Mrs V says shes suffered stress and anxiety about her health 
and her finances. Mrs V thinks Aviva should continue to pay her benefit until shes able to 
work full-time again. 
Aviva recognised it had a made a mistake and should have told Mrs V and her employer that 
payment and membership of the plan would end when Mrs V reached the age of 60. They 
apologised and agreed to pay Mrs V benefit of £841.35. As Mrs V was unhappy with Avivas 
offer she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator said Aviva should have given 
Mrs V notice, but had done enough to put things right. Mrs V didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint  so its been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not asking Aviva to 
do anything more. I'll explain why. 
Mrs V s policy says,
Termination of claims
Payments by Friends Life under the policy in respect of a member will cease to be made 
and an individual will cease to be a member of the scheme and therefore a member on the 
earliest to occur of the following events:
a.On the employee reaching the expiry age".
Terms in bold are defined in the policy. Expiry age is defined as,The age specified in the policy schedule at which a member will cease to be covered 
under the policy.
Ive seen the schedule that applies to Mrs V and confirm the expiry age is stated as 60. So 
its clear Aviva are entitled to end Mrs Vs benefit on her 60th birthday. What I need to decide 
is whether Aviva treated Mrs V fairly in the way in which it ended her benefit. 
Aviva have accepted it was their responsibility to keep Mrs V and her employer updated 
about the end date with plenty of notice, but they made a mistake and failed to do so. It is 
understandable that this has had an impact on Mrs V, who was working 12 hours a week at 
the time she found out her benefit was due to end. But I dont think the fair outcome is to ask 
Aviva to continue to pay benefit as if the policy is in force until such a time as Mrs V returns 
to full-time employment. I say this because this is not what would have happened if Aviva 
had given Mrs V more notice of the date benefit would end. 
Had Aviva have given Mrs V more notice it is difficult to say Mrs V would have done anything 
differently. She was undertaking a phased return to work on medical advice and because it 
was in her best interests to do so. Policyholders are expected to act in the same way if they 
are insured as they would if they werent, so I cant reasonably conclude that had Mrs V 
known the end date sooner shed have increased her hours earlier. Even if I was persuaded 
Mrs V  would have increased her hours more before the date her policy ended Im mindful of 
the fact shes received compensation, which Ill discuss below. 
Aviva paid Mrs V a months benefit as a lump sum. This meant Mrs V was effectively given 
around seven weeks notice of the end of her cover. Whilst I appreciate Mrs V doesnt think 
the compensation she has received is enough, this service considers it to be a substantial 
award. I consider Aviva acted reasonably in paying Mrs V £841.35 compensation, but Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to ask them to pay any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not asking Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited to do anything 
more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman