DRN-1471259
 
The complaint
Mr Os complaint against Interactive Investor Services Limited is that he was unable to make 
the investments he wanted through his online account.  
What happened
Mr O opened an account with Interactive Investor in September 2017. He chose the 
Interactive Investor account because it allowed him to invest in euros and trade in shares, 
bonds and exchange traded funds (ETFs) on the major eurozone exchanges. 
In May 2019 Mr O tried to buy a range of euro denominated ETFs. The website gave him 
quotes but when he attempted to place the trades he was told to call Interactive Investors 
dealers. Mr O tried calling but was unable to speak to a dealer until the following day. 
They told Mr O that due to a change in regulations, hed no longer be able to trade in 
many European ETFs on their platform.
Mr O complains that Interactive Investor didnt tell him about the changes. He says they 
breached their contract and he hasnt been able to deal in the way he wanted since May 
2019. He says Interactive Investor have caused him anxiety, as well as distress and 
inconvenience. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Os complaint. She didnt think Interactive Investor had 
breached their contract with Mr O. But she said they hadnt made clear to Mr O that, due to 
the change in regulations, the availability of European ETFs would be limited. She thought 
Interactive Investor should pay Mr O £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr O disagrees with our investigator. He thinks Interactive Investor should compensate him 
for any losses hes incurred as a result of not being able to trade since May 2019. He also 
wants Interactive Investor to pay the costs of transferring to another broker, and to pay 
increased compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os has said the ability to trade European ETFs was one of the main reasons he chose to 
open an account with Interactive Investor. So he thinks its a breach of contract that hes 
been unable to do so since 2019.
Interactive Investor have said the arrangements for trading European ETFs on their platform 
changed in January 2018, several months after Mr O opened his account. Thats when new 
FCA rules and guidance came into effect as a result of the MiFID II PRIIPS regulations.
Interactive Investor say that from January 2018 their customers were unable to trade in the 
vast majority of European ETFs. Thats because, under the new regulations, the customer had to first confirm theyd read and agreed to the information in the key investor information 
document (KIID) or customer due diligence (CDD) documentation. 
For most European ETFs, Interactive Investor have said the required documents were either 
unavailable, or not provided in English. They said that as a UK based broker providing 
accounts to UK clients, they couldnt use documents in other languages as they wouldnt be 
abiding by their regulatory obligation in line with MiFID II. 
Interactive Investor are required to comply with the FCAs rules and are responsible for 
deciding what steps to take in order to do so. We cant tell them what to trade or what 
services they should provide to their customers. So I cant say Interactive Investor did 
anything wrong in changing their arrangements for trading European ETFs in the way they 
did. 
Mr O has referred to his rights under the Consumer Rights Act, and Ive taken account of 
what hes said. But I dont think Interactive Investor have breached their contract with Mr O 
by making the changes they did in response to new regulations, which came into effect after 
Mr O opened his account. And I note the terms and conditions of Mr Os account say that 
Interactive Investor have the discretion to accept or decline a customers order.  
Mr O has also said Interactive Investor should compensate him for the trades he would like 
to have made since May 2019 and meet the costs of him transferring to another provider. 
I wont be asking Interactive Investor to do that because I dont think they did anything wrong 
by changing their arrangements for trading European ETFs. Mr O was free to move his 
account to another provider if he wasnt happy, and Interactive Investor have said they 
wouldnt charge exit fees if he chose to do so.
I acknowledge that Mr O would have liked to receive more information from Interactive 
Investor about the changes. But Interactive Investor did send their customers notification of 
the new regulations coming into force.
I understand it must have been very frustrating for Mr O when his trades didnt go through. 
He spent several hours trying to execute them, and when he tried calling Interactive Investor 
was unable to speak to anyone until the following day. After some delay, a dealer then 
explained why he was unable to make the trades he wanted. 
I agree that the delay in explaining things caused Mr O unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. Mr O has said Interactive Investor should pay £250 in compensation for that. 
Ive thought about what hes said, and I can see this has been a very frustrating situation for 
him. But overall, I think the £100 recommended by our investigator is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case. And I wont be asking Interactive Investor to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that uphold in part Mr Os complaint 
against Interactive Investor Services Limited.  
Interactive Investor Limited should pay Mr O £100 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Najma SamatarOmbudsman