DRN-3817192
The complaint
Mrs R complains that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) has unfairly handled a claim 
made under a Holiday Home Insurance policy.
Any reference to Mrs R or AmTrust includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known and has been detailed by our Investigator 
previously, so Ill summarise events and stick to the key facts of the complaint.
In August 2020 AmTrust was notified that Mrs Rs property was damaged by an 
escape of water originating from a neighbouring property.
AmTrust accepted the claim and appointed loss adjusters to take the matter forward.
AmTrust says the works were delayed due to Mrs Rs personal circumstances 
outside of its control. Mrs R had been caring for her husband around this time and 
sadly he passed away in May 2021.
Mrs R had requested AmTrust include modifications to the property within its 
schedule to account for her disability. AmTrust said it was sympathetic to her 
situation, but was unable to consider repairs and alterations outside of the damage or 
unrelated to the damage. 
Following a back and forth on this topic  a cash settlement was made by AmTrust 
which it said covered the cost of Mrs R arranging the required repairs herself.
So, the complaint came to this Service. One of our Investigators looked into what 
happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He said the insurance policys purpose 
was to return the property back to the position it was in prior to the insured peril 
occurring. And because the property didnt have the disability adaptations Mrs R 
wanted to be installed prior to the loss, the cost of these wouldnt fall to AmTrust. 
The Investigator noted AmTrust had agreed to install adaptations for Mrs R  but only 
if she paid for these  which he said was fair. And he said its decision to cash settle 
the claim after multiple efforts to reach an agreement to repair the property had failed 
was fair.
Mrs R disagreed. So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
This case concerns an escape of water. AmTrust has accepted the claim. So, I dont 
need to make a decision about this.
AmTrust produced a schedule of works to repair and replace the damage to the 
property on a like-for-like basis. This is in line with the policy terms and typically what 
wed expect to see an insurer do to fairly handle a claim.
The dispute here has arisen as Mrs R does not want a like-for-like replacement of her 
kitchen. And instead she has requested that AmTrust carry out additional works to 
account for her disabilities and provide a kitchen that she believes will suit her needs.
While Im sympathetic to Mrs Rs needs, AmTrust does not have an obligation under 
the policy to make these sort of adaptations nor pay for them. And from various notes 
and correspondence Ive seen, Im satisfied AmTrust has been clear on this topic 
with Mrs R, and signposted her to relevant support that may be able to help her. 
AmTrust had also considered taking on the additional works if Mrs R would financially 
contribute towards the uninsured works or costs. However, Mrs R had been clear she 
did not have the funds to pay for any additional works. And for the reasons above, I 
wouldnt expect AmTrust to take responsibility for this. 
Having reviewed AmTrusts handling of the claim Im satisfied it has acted promptly 
and fairly, and attempted to resolve any disagreements about the scope of works on 
multiple occasions and with Mrs Rs various representatives and support.
AmTrust said it made a cash settlement as it could not progress the claim any 
further. In the circumstances, I think this was a reasonable solution and should allow 
Mrs R to use those funds towards whatever designs and adaptations she should 
choose within the home.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman