DRN-3737282
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) have declined to refund 
them payments totalling over £700, which they said they did not make or otherwise 
authorise. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R said they contacted Tesco in March 2022 as they wanted a replacement card.  
They asked Tesco whether cancelling their card would prevent any further payments coming 
out of the account, and they were told it would. In April and May 2022, two payments were 
taken from Mr and Mrs Rs Tesco account for approximately £365 each time, which went to 
a holiday company. 
Tesco reviewed the calls with Mr and Mrs R and said that they had made an error on the call 
in telling them that cancelling the card would prevent any further payments coming out of the 
account  and that the individual who had advised this would be spoken to. But they did not 
agree that they had erred in allowing the transactions to go through. They said this was 
because Mr and Mrs R had a Continuous Payment Authority (CPA) with the holiday 
company, and because the merchant was signed up to Automatic Billing Updater (ABU), 
their new card details would have been automatically updated with the merchant. This was 
to prevent disruption for customers who got new cards, or to prevent customers falling into 
breach of contract with merchants. So, as Mr and Mrs R had given their original card details 
to the holiday company, Tesco did not think they had made an error in terms of the money 
being debited. They sent Mr and Mrs R a cheque for £25 to apologise for the fact they had 
shared incorrect information with them. 
Mr and Mrs R remained dissatisfied, so they complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and didnt recommend that Tesco need do 
anything further. They said the CPA dated back to January 2022 and was authorised. Three 
payments had already been made to the company as part of this agreement. And they 
thought as the disputed transactions were part of a CPA and the merchant was part of the 
ABU, Tesco had not acted incorrectly by allowing the pre-approved payments to go through. 
Mr and Mrs R remained dissatisfied. They said that Tesco had admitted they gave the wrong 
advice on the call and had now blocked the holiday company, so felt they were admitting 
liability for the disputed transactions. Our investigators opinion remained the same, so as no 
agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs). I 
will not quote them directly here, but broadly speaking they set out when a customer is 
responsible for the transactions on their account  typically when they have been authorised 
by the customer in some way. And where there is a dispute about whether the customer 
authorised a transaction there needs to be evidence to support the banks case if it wishes to 
hold the customer liable. 
The website of the third party that took the payments from Mr and Mrs Rs account is a 
holiday website. This website allows customers to split their holiday payments over several 
months to help customers spread the cost of their holiday. Where card details are provided, 
the payment is taken out under a CPA. From my review of the available evidence, it appears 
that Mr and Mrs R gave their daughter permission to use their card to pay for a holiday. And 
so by giving their daughter permission to use their card, they gave their authority to the 
holiday company for the payments to be taken out of their account each month under a  
continuous payment authority. And it seems Mr and Mrs R were happy enough with this 
agreement until they fell out with their daughter  indeed three payments left their account 
without dispute before they got in touch with Tesco. So, Mr and Mrs R entered into an 
agreement with the holiday company to make the payments. And the ABU means that 
cancelling a card does not stop merchants taking pre-agreed payments from an account. 
The fact they later fell out with their daughter does not have a material baring on this 
agreement. And so regardless of any fall out, or conversation with Mr and Mrs R and Tesco, 
Tesco were bound by the earlier agreement between Mr and Mrs R and the holiday 
company. This means they acted correctly in allowing these payments to go through on the 
new card. 
I have thought about the phone call Mr and Mrs R had with Tesco before the payments went 
out, where they reported the card missing and made enquiries about whether future 
payments would leave the account. I do agree that the advice given by Tesco on the call 
was not as clear as it should be  and Tesco agree as they have apologised for this and paid 
£25. I know it must be frustrating to be given incorrect advice, but the payments would have 
left the account regardless of the incorrect advice. As I outlined above, the underlying 
agreement and CPA with the merchant existed regardless of the surrounding circumstances.  
So I think the £25 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
Tesco Personal Finance PLC have acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the payments to 
go through, and paying £25 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by 
giving Mr and Mrs R incorrect information in a phone call. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman