DRN-2955678
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with a 
claim under their home emergency policy when their boiler stopped working, leaving them 
without heating.
What happened
In November 2020, Mr and Mrs Ss boiler developed a fault.  As they had a home 
emergency policy with IPA, they contacted them to get the problem fixed.  IPA arranged for 
an engineer to visit their home the following day.  The engineer told Mr and Mrs S that the 
boiler needed some new parts, which would be ordered and should be available in three or 
four days time.
Despite what the engineer had said, Mr and Mrs S heard nothing further for another ten 
days.  So Mr S called IPA to find out what was happening.  He was told that IPA had 
received a report from the engineer, indicating there was sludge in the boiler.  And dealing 
with sludge wasnt covered under the home emergency policy.
Mr S challenged what IPA said as the engineer had never mentioned sludge.  IPA noted that 
the engineer hadnt taken a sample of the water and said they needed that.  So theyd 
arrange for the engineer would return and take one.
Mr and Mrs S had a further wait before the engineer returned.  He took a sample.  IPA said 
this confirmed there was sludge in the boiler.  So it wouldnt be repaired under the terms of 
the policy.
Mr and Mrs S complained to IPA about the way theyd been dealt with and how the sample 
was taken.  They said theyd been left without heating for an extended period during the 
winter which theyd found difficult.  And theyd not been given updates about remedying the 
issue with the boiler.
And Mr and Mrs S said that the engineer who took the sample had deliberately contaminated 
it by using dirty equipment.  A sample taken by their own engineer had not shown there was 
any sludge in the system.
IPA investigated Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and partly upheld it.  They apologised that their 
handling had caused Mr and Mrs S distress and inconvenience and said they would pay 
them £150 compensation for that.  And they replaced some parts in the boiler as a gesture 
of goodwill to see if that would resolve the issue.  But they maintained their position that the 
problems with the boiler were caused by sludge  so werent covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs S werent satisfied with IPAs response and brought their complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded that IPA didnt need to do anything more to resolve 
it.  He noted there was a dispute as to whether or not there was evidence of sludge in the 
boiler  which he couldnt determine.  And he was satisfied IPAs engineer had tried to get 
the boiler working again.  But he explained that the policy didnt cover every eventuality and 
noted that damage caused by sludge was excluded.  So it was fair to decline the claim.
He did think there had been delays in dealing with the claim.  But the investigator thought the 
cheque for £150 sent to Mr and Mrs S was sufficient to compensate them for that.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms of Mr and Mrs Ss policy.  The section headed You are not covered 
for the following includes:
Descaling or desludging and any work arising from damage caused by hard water scale, 
rust or sludge deposit. 
I think that terms clear.  So the issue for me to decide is whether it was reasonable for IPA 
to conclude the problems with Mr and Mrs Ss boiler were the result of sludge.  
Ive been provided with photographs of a sample taken by IPAs engineer, which is cloudy.   
And Ive got photographs taken by an engineer instructed by Mr and Mrs S, in which the 
sample is clear.
Ive noted Mr Ss testimony about how IPAs engineer took the sample.  So I asked our 
investigator to find out if IPA had any comments on that.  
IPA have confirmed that they dont pay for a test certificate on the water, so none was 
obtained.  Neither has the sample taken by Mr and Mrs Ss engineer got a certificate.
Ive made enquiries about this issue.  I understand its possible to get both a clean and a 
cloudy sample from the same boiler by, for example, taking it from a different point in the 
system.  So Im satisfied that its possible that both samples in this case were legitimately 
obtained from Mr and Mrs Ss boiler.  And - on the basis that their engineer took a sample 
which they said indicated sludge  I think it was reasonable for IPA to conclude that had 
caused the problem and it decline cover because damage by sludge was excluded.
Notwithstanding that conclusion, I do appreciate Mr and Mrs S were inconvenienced by IPA 
not updating them after the first inspection until Mr S chased them up 10 days later.  Ive 
seen that during that call Mr S was advised that IPA didnt think the issue was covered.  So, 
although IPA did try and assist them further, Mr and Mrs S were aware from that point that 
they may have to seek an alternative to pursuing the claim.
But I think IPA have already compensated Mr and Mrs S for that delay by paying them £150.  
I think thats sufficient to compensate them for how IPA fell short.  So Im not asking them to 
do anything more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about Inter 
Partner Assistance SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Helen StaceyOmbudsman