DRN-4509589
The complaint
Mrs S complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) reinvested her bond into a lower 
interest rate product without any prior advice or her authority. 
What happened
Mrs S says she held a guaranteed income bond (GIB) with NS&I and in January 2022 it 
reinvested the bond into a two -year GIB without prior notification, at a much lower rate of 
interest. Mrs S says her affairs are looked after by a family member and given her age and 
personal circumstances she doesnt make use of online services. Mrs S says she instructed 
NS&I in early December 2021 to reinvest the maturing GIB into a three-year bond.
Mrs S says NS&I placed her maturing GIB into a fixed bond at an interest rate that is now 
earning her around £870 less per month in interest and has caused her upset and worry. 
Mrs S wants NS&I to pay her the interest she should have earned on the GIB. 
NS&I says Mrs S registered for online and telephony services in February 2017 and it had 
subsequently advised her by way of email in January 2020 that it would be moving to a 
paperless service. NS&I says it sent reminders regarding the GIB maturity to Mrs S by way 
of email and secure message in early December 2021, informing her of what actions to take 
before the maturity date in January 2022.
NS&I says no reinvestment instructions were received by Mrs S, so in line with the terms of 
the maturity instructions letter it sent by email, it renewed the GIB for a further two years - 
albeit Mrs S did have a further 30 days cooling off period, but nothing further was heard from 
Mrs S.
NS&I says it then heard from Mrs S in February 2023 requesting for the GIB to be cancelled, 
but that couldnt be arranged as the bond was fixed for two years. NS&I doesnt feel it has 
done anything wrong. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with NS&Is response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says from the information shed seen, Mrs S had registered for online services in 
2017 and NS&I had acted reasonably when it informed Mrs S in 2020 it was moving to a 
paperless service. The investigator says she has seen evidence that NS&I had sent secure 
messages and emails to Mrs S prior to the maturity of the GIB advising her what actions 
were required on its maturity in January 2022 and what would happen if no instructions were 
received. The investigator says NS&I had shown that Mrs S had logged on to her account 
profile in December 2021, shortly after the email regarding the maturity had been sent so it 
was likely this would have been seen by Mrs S.
The investigator says the GIB bond maturity letter clearly stated the new interest rate that 
would be payable on the two-year bond and that her bond would be reinvested into that 
bond if no further instructions were received. Additionally, the investigator says Mrs S was 
given a 30-day cooling off period by NS&I and felt it hadnt acted unfairly here. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mrs S to see the income from her GIB 
reduce so significantly and to be tied into a new GIB for a further two years. When looking at 
this complaint I will consider if NS&I acted fairly when it reinvested Mrs Ss maturing GIB for 
a further two years, on its maturity in January 2022.
The background to this complaint is well known by both parties so I dont intend to repeat 
everything thats been said before, as I dont feel its necessary to come to a full and 
impartial decision here. 
In essence Mrs Ss complaint centres around the fact when her GIB matured in January 
2022, NS&I without prior notification, or her instructions, rolled the GIB into a new two-year 
fixed bond at a much lower rate of interest. Mrs S also says she gave instructions in early 
December 2021 to NS&I, that on maturity, to reinvest the GIB into a three-year GIB.
The first thing to say here is that interest rates on savings products generally at the time of 
the maturity of Mrs Ss GIB in January 2022, had reduced significantly from the time Mrs S 
previously reinvested her GIB. So, there was little likelihood Mrs S would have achieved the 
interest rate she had previously enjoyed for either a two- or three-year GIB. 
While Mrs S says she doesnt use online services and that is understandable, we have been 
informed by NS&I she did register for online and telephony services back in 2017, perhaps 
at a time when this was more manageable for her. NS&I have evidenced it sent an email to 
Mrs S, as a registered online user, in January 2020 that it was moving to a paperless 
service, but I cant see that was ever responded to by Mrs S suggesting this wasnt 
acceptable. In any event this was a business decision for NS&I to take, so I cant tell it 
otherwise.  
NS&I have also provided this service with evidence that emails and secure messages were 
sent to Mrs S in December 2021 advising her of the maturity of her GIB in January 2022 and 
what options where available to her and importantly if no instructions where received it would 
reinvest the GIB into a two-year GIB fixed for two years at an interest rate of .11%. While 
Mrs S says she instructed NS&I to reinvest her GIB for three years, NS&I have no record of 
that and unfortunately I can only consider the evidence available to me.
What has been evidenced to this service is that Mrs S did successfully log into her NS&I 
account in December 2021, around the time the emails were sent to her regarding the 
maturity of her GIB. So, on balance, in all probability its likely Mrs S would have the option 
to read the emails NS&I sent, and I cant hold it responsible if having logged on to her 
account, she chose not to do so.
I now understand NS&I as a gesture of goodwill have since allowed Mrs S to break her GIB 
without penalty and I was pleased to hear she has invested these monies at a higher interest 
rate with another provider. In hindsight thats perhaps something she wouldnt have achieved 
if she had gone ahead locking into a three- year GIB in January 2022, with NS&I only offering  a modest improvement in the interest rate, over the two-year bond at that time.  
So, while I do have some sympathy with Mrs S here, I am satisfied NS&I did provide her with 
sufficient information regarding the maturity of her GIB and what actions were needed from 
her, so I cant say it acted unfairly.  
While Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of NS&I here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman