DRN-2224672
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out to protect a
mortgage in 1998. Mr H says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC had to make Mr H aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent before
adding it to his mortgage. There is limited information available from the time the policy was 
sold but HSBC has sent us the available documentation. 
As part of Mr Hs mortgage application Mr H had a meeting with a HSBC representative in 
which a review of his circumstances was completed. A section within the documentation 
stated: 
repayment protector recommended and taken
The documentation was also signed by Mr H. Mr H has told us that the style of some of the 
ticks within the document are not his handwriting. But I dont think it would be unusual for the 
documents to be discussed within the meeting and completed in part by the representative 
before Mr H was asked to sign them.
From the information available I think Mr H would have been aware the PPI was optional, 
and he chose to take it.
As HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr H it had to check that the PPI was right for
him. Mr H has told us he had life and health cover. He would also have been able to find a 
new job if he needed to, so he didnt need the policy. But the PPI would have paid out in 
circumstances that his other protection didnt, and while Mr H has told us he would have 
been able to find another job this could have taken some time and I dont think it was 
possible to guarantee work immediately. So, I think Mr H had a need for the cover, and it 
was right for him.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been, but I think Mr H chose to take out the policy - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. So, I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr H off taking out the cover.
Which means HSBC doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman