DRN-3854067
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy with some of the repairs carried out by a contractor appointed for her by 
C.G.H.W Ltd, a firm of loss assessors, who dealt with her home insurance claim for fire 
damage to her home.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Another ombudsman 
previously decided on aspects of the repairs in a final decision around November 2020.     
Ms O didnt respond to the final decision, so it was assumed she rejected the ombudsmans 
findings, and the complaint was closed.
Around July 2021 Ms O contacted our service and said shed discovered new issues with the 
repairs. The matter was referred to CGHW, who initially deemed Ms Os complaint to be 
related to the previous final decision.
Ms O referred the complaint back to our service. Our investigator considered the matter and 
deemed that four of the issues Ms O raised hadnt previously been considered by CGHW or 
our service. The four issues were:
That the floor in front of the kitchen sink was uneven.
The laminate flooring in the bedroom dips.
The builders left debris from the fire at the side of the conservatory.
The front bay window ledge is sloping.
In response CGHW said:
No works to the floor structure or sub floor were carried out  its contractors laid the 
floor covering on top of the existing sub floor in the kitchen and bedroom.
The property was cleaned prior to handover.
The window ledge wasnt included in the scope of works agreed.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They
concluded CGHW should reattend the property to address the issues with the subfloor and
ensure its repair was effective and lasting. They also recommended CGHW removed the
debris from the side of the conservatory and review the reason for the window ledge sloping.
They said that if the sloping was found to be as a result of poor workmanship or fire damage,
then CGHW should arrange for the damage to be repaired.
Ms O responded and said she wanted a settlement for works to be carried out so she could
arrange to get her own contractor in. And she made a further allegation that CGHW were
racist.
CGHW responded and said the items Ms O complained about didnt relate to the insured
loss or fall under the agreed scope of works with the contractor. It added that it shouldnt be
held responsible for works which Ms Os insurer had refused as part of the claim.
The complaint was passed to me and on 25 November 2022 I provisionally set out that I 
intended to uphold Ms Os complaint in part. Ive repeated an extract below:
Kitchen and bedroom floors
Ms O says the scope of works clearly states the floors were to be fully removed. Ive
checked the scope of works but I dont agree. The works cover the lifting of tiles in the
kitchen and lifting of the laminate in the bedroom. So, I cant see that any work was agreed
to the sub floors by Ms Os insurer or that it formed part of the original repair schedule.
For me to conclude that the sub floor needed to be included as part of an effective and
lasting repair, Id need to be persuaded that the need to carry out the work was as a direct
result of the insured damage. I havent seen any evidence to support this, so I wont require
CGHW to do anything further here.
Front bay window ledge
Ive again checked the scope of works, and I cant see that the front bay window ledge was
included. And given the time thats passed, its not clear when the front bay window ledge
started to slope either  as this issue has been raised some time after the repairs were
signed off.
In any event, given that it didnt form part of the repairs, unless theres firm evidence to show
the affected area was either part of the original scope of works or directly affected by fire
damage, I cant reasonably hold CGHW responsible for any further investigations or repairs
here.
Debris
On this issue, Im minded to agree with our investigator. The evidence we have from both
parties is limited to one photo each. CGHWs photo shows the conservatory area is tidy and
free from debris. But Ms Os photo clearly shows strip out debris piled up against a wall.
Its difficult to see exactly where this is in location to the conservatory, but on balance, and in
the absence of any further evidence I intend to uphold this aspect of Ms Os complaint and
require CGHW to arrange for a contractor to remove the debris only.
Ms O has alleged that CGHW are racist, but shes not provided any examples for me to
consider further. This is a serious allegation, but Ive not seen any evidence to support it, or
to put to CGHW or its contractors. So as things stand, I dont intend to take this any further.
Developments 
Ms O responded and said she disagreed with my decision. Ms O added that shed 
responded to the previous ombudsmans decision and rejected it. And she said CGHW were 
dishonest.CGHW responded and said in summary:
Ms O appointed the contractor.
Any issues with workmanship could have been addressed at the handover meeting.
Ms O signed a note to say she was satisfied with the repairs.
It questioned why these issues were being raised now, as opposed to being included 
in Ms Os original complaint.
Any complaint should be addressed to the contractor and not CGHW.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not seen any material new evidence to change my mind about what I 
concluded previously. Ill explain why below.
In response to Ms O, I acknowledge the evidence provided which shows she rejected the 
previous ombudsmans findings. In any event the decision was recorded as rejected and not 
legally binding on either party, so she was free to pursue the matter through other avenues.
In response to CGHW:
In terms of the jurisdiction of this complaint and who it should be addressed to, our 
service considers that the relevant regulated activity here is assisting in the 
administration and performance of a contract of insurance. This means that any 
work CGHW did for Ms O in connection with the insurance claim whilst it was in the 
process of being considered and settled by the insurer is covered by this activity.
CGHW has confirmed the insurer settled the claim after the repair work was 
completed. So, on balance, I find it likely that any issue with the debris stemmed from 
before this time and is therefore within our services jurisdiction. I say this because 
the contractors arranged by CGHW wouldve needed to strip out the property before 
repairs began. And I see the removal of the debris as being the continuation and 
completion of this part of the repair. Ive not seen any firm evidence to refute this 
point, so I maintain that CGHW should arrange for the debris to be removed.
Ive considered CGHWs point about why the issues are being raised now for works 
that were essentially completed around December 2018. Ive not upheld any other 
aspect of the repairs and Ive not seen any further evidence on this point, so having 
reconsidered everything Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
I therefore uphold Ms Os complaint in part.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require C.G.H.W. Ltd to put things 
right by arranging for a contractor to remove any remaining strip out debris at Ms Os 
property only.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman