DRN-3465991
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about an early repayment charge (ERC) that was applied when he paid 
off his mortgage with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money. Mr C doesnt think this 
was fair given the amount that remained payable over the remainder of the product term. 
This was especially so in light of his offer to pay a sum equal to the remaining mortgage 
payments when he paid off the mortgage, meaning that Clydesdale wouldnt suffer a loss. 
What happened
In 2016 Mr R took out a mortgage with Clydesdale on a repayment basis over 35 years. An 
interest rate product was attached to the mortgage, which expired on 1 April 2021. The 
mortgage offer set out that, if the mortgage was repaid in full before that date Mr R would 
have to pay an ERC of 5% of the mortgage balance.
In the middle of 2020 Mr R contacted Clydesdale to check what his options were in relation 
to his mortgage and the possibility of him moving home. He was aware that his interest rate 
product didnt end until the end of March 2021 and it had an ERC associated with it. 
Clydesdale confirmed that he could port the existing product to a new mortgage with it and 
take a new product for any increase to his borrowing. Alternatively, he could take a new 
mortgage with it and a new rate for the whole amount of the borrowing, at which point 
Clydesdale would only charge him half the ERC. He was also directed to the section of his 
mortgage offer that detailed the ERC and his options. 
Mr R contacted Clydesdale again. He asked that the ERC be capped at an amount equal to 
the remaining contractual monthly payments due before the end of the interest rate product. 
This he considered would mean that Clydesdale wouldnt suffer a loss by him repaying the 
mortgage early. He said that if Clydesdale wouldnt agree to this, it would, in his opinion, be 
profiting from the mortgage arrangement and this would be unethical of it. He said that if 
Clydesdale was not willing to agree to his proposal, he wanted the matter dealt with as a 
complaint.
Clydesdale responded to Mr Rs complaint, but didnt uphold it. It said that Mr R had entered 
into a contract with it that ended on 1 April 2021. It went on to explain why an ERC was 
payable throughout the term of a fixed rate product  it was because it incurred costs when it 
paid off the borrowing early.
The mortgage was repaid in December 2020 and Mr C was charged an ERC.
Mr R wasnt happy with Clydesdales response and asked this service to look into his 
complaint. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Rs complaint, but he didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that Mr R had been made aware of the ERC before 
he took the mortgage out and that it was a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs to 
Clydesdale. As such, he didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He reiterated that he had offered to pay the 
remaining monthly payments so that Clydesdale was not out of pocket. He considered that 
it would have been the moral thing for this offer to be accepted and Clydesdales refusal was 
unnecessary, unethical and was taking advantage of him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As has been explained previously, in order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will 
borrow money themselves. As with loans made to the lenders customers, there are costs 
associated with borrowing that money. When the lender decides the format of the loans its 
going to use a tranche of money for, it has to include an assessment of the potential risks 
associated with doing so. Included in those risks is that some customers may repay their 
borrowing early. When that happens some of the money expected to be received by the 
lender will not be, but the lender remains liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In 
addition, if the lender repays its borrowing early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, a lender is allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to it of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. 
The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the lenders 
requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the ERC will be 
and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
Mr R considers the ERC is unfair because it is for more than the amount he would have paid 
to Clydesdale over the remaining term of the interest rate product. As I have explained 
above there are many factors that are taken into account when an ERC is calculated, not 
just the amount of interest the lender wont receive. Under the rules, provided the charge is a 
reasonable pre-estimate of the loss suffered by Clydesdale if the mortgage is paid early, it 
can make the charge. I have seen the evidence of the calculations, although it cant be made 
publicly available as its commercially sensitive and confidential, I am satisfied the amount 
charged in this case was a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. I dont think the charge should 
be refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
11 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman