DRN-2713023
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, have registered a
default on her credit file.
What happened
Ms T had a Barclaycard credit card with a 0% interest rate which was conditional on her
maintaining the account below the agreed credit limit. Ms T was experiencing financial
difficulties and in May 2019 the account went over the agreed credit limit and the 0% interest
rate was rescinded, with the account instead transferring to a contractual rate of interest.
Ms T was experiencing financial difficulties, and in September 2019 she contacted Barclays
to see if they could help. Barclays agreed to freeze interest and charges on the account
pending the receipt of an income and expenditure form from Mr T.
Later that month Ms T sent her income and expenditure information to Barclays. She then
received no further communication from Barclays about this and continued to make
payments to the account.
In November 2019 Ms T was unable to log onto her account online. Ms T contacted Barclays
who told her that because her income and expenditure form indicated that she could only
pay approximately £50 per month, and because this was less than the required minimum
monthly payment, Barclays had issued a notice of termination on 17 September 2019 which
had given Ms T 60 days to bring the account back under the agreed credit limit or the credit
agreement would be terminated and a default recorded against her credit file. Because Ms T
had not made payments on the account to bring the account back within the agreed credit
limit, Barclays had terminated her account in line with this notice.
Ms T wasnt happy with Barclays actions. She said that shed never received the notice of
termination and didnt think it was fair that Barclays would adversely affect her credit file in
this way, and so she made a complaint.
Barclays reviewed Ms Ts complaint. They noted that the notice of termination had been sent
to Ms Ts correct address and they felt that the default had been applied correctly. So, they
didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Ms T remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to this service. One of our
investigators looked at this complaint and liaised with Barclays, who considered again the
circumstances of this complaint and agreed that Ms T had showed an intent to make
payments on the account and that the default may have been applied to Ms Ts account too
early.
So, Barclays made an offer of goodwill to remove the default from Ms Ts account and to
revert the account back to the contractual rate of interest, on the understanding that if Ms T
were unable to maintain her payments moving forwards then a new default would be applied
to her credit file. Barclays also noted that the £50 per month repayments that Ms T had been
making in recent months was less than half of the what the minimum contractual repayment
would be and said that this should be considered by Ms T when deciding whether to accept
of decline the offer.
Our investigator relayed Barclays offer to Ms T, but while she was happy to have the default
removed from her credit file, she felt that her relationship with Barclays had broken down to
such a degree such that she was no longer willing to engage with Barclays, and wanted
instead to continue to make payments to the account to the debt collection agency, at the
rate she had agreed with the debt collection agency.
Our investigator explained to Ms T that Barclays offer of removing the default was
conditional on the account reverting back to the contractual terms of the credit agreement,
which meant that she would have to re-engage with Barclays. Ms T didnt agree that this was
a fair resolution, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 February 2021 which stated:
Ive assessed the offer made by Barclays to remove the default from Ms Ts
credit file as described above, as it is the details of this offer - specifically that it would 
entail Ms Ts account reverting back to contractual terms with Barclays - that Ms T 
disagrees with and which I think prompted her to request that this case be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
Ms T has said that she would like the default removed from her credit file, but to be 
allowed to continue the repayment plan that she has agreed with the debt collection 
agency, rather than return to making payments to Barclays
Its clear that Ms T feels strongly about this matter, but unfortunately it wouldnt be 
fair or appropriate for me to make an instruction such as the one she is seeking.
I say this because of the nature of a default applied to a credit file, the primary 
purpose of which is to record the fact that a previously agreed credit agreement has 
not been maintained. It may be beneficial for Ms T to continue with the repayment 
agreement she has made with the debt collection company, based on her being able 
to negotiate a lower monthly repayment amount and other factors. However, if Ms T 
were to choose to continue that repayment plan with the debt collection agency then 
she wouldnt be maintaining the original credit agreement she made with Barclays, 
and because of this, it wouldnt be appropriate to remove the default from her credit 
file.
It follows then that, if Ms T wishes to accept Barclays offer of having the default 
removed from her credit file, it must be conditional on her resuming the terms of the 
original credit agreement with Barclays.
However, as Barclays have noted, if Ms T were to resume the original credit 
agreement, this would entail Ms T making monthly minimum repayments which are 
more than the monthly amount which she is currently paying to the debt collection 
agency.
It is therefore important to confirm whether or not Ms T would be able to meet theserepayments, because if she was to fall into arrears on the account again then it may 
be the case that the account would be defaulted again, which would result in a new 
default being applied to Ms Ts credit file. And, because any new default would be 
more recent than the default already in place, this would mean that a record of the 
new default would remain on her credit file beyond the date that the reporting of the 
current default would expire.
It would therefore be remiss of this service to instruct Barclays to remove the default 
and return the account to the previous contractual terms, as they have offered to do, 
without establishing with Ms T that she is willing to re-engage with Barclays and also 
that she would be able to provide details of her current income and expenditure to 
Barclays to confirm that the payments that would be required would be affordable for 
her.
To that end, this service has attempted to contact Ms T on several occasions within 
the last six weeks, but without success. It follows therefore that because we have 
been unable to discuss this matter with Ms T and gain the necessary confirmations 
from her, as explained above, it wouldnt be appropriate for this service to ask 
Barclays to remove the default from Ms Ts credit file and to return the account to the 
contractual terms at this time.
It further follows that the only course of action that this service can reasonably and 
fairly recommend at this time, is that no action be taken. Because of this, I 
provisionally wont be upholding this complaint, and Barclays should not remove the 
default from Ms Ts credit file at this time or recall the account from the debt 
collection agency.
As explained above, I would welcome Ms Ts comments on this, and should it be the 
case that she contacts us no later than 21 March 2021 and that she consents both to 
re-engaging with Barclays and to providing Barclays with up to date income and 
expenditure information which would confirm that she would be able to afford the 
necessary repayments if her account were to be returned to the contractual terms  
then I would be happy to amend my provisional decision here.
I understand that this may not be the outcome that Ms T was wanting, but I hope that 
she can understand, based on everything I have explained, why this is a decision I 
feel that I have no option other than to make.
In my provisional decision I gave Ms T and Barclays until 21 March 2021 to provide any 
further comments or information that they wished me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Barclays confirmed that they had nothing further to add. Ms T did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to confirm my provisional decision, and I will not be upholding 
this complaint on that basis.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman