DRN-3789486
The complaint
Mr H complains Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix Life) decided to stop paying 
bonuses on his with-profits endowment policy. 
 
What happened
Mr H took out the policy in 1986. Phoenix Life are now responsible for the administration of 
this policy. Hes concerned when Phoenix Life took over the policy and reviewed it, they 
decided they would no longer be paying bonuses for the remainder of the contract. He 
complains this changed the terms of his with-profit policy to a non-profit policy. His policy 
matured and he complained to Phoenix Life in September 2021.
 
Phoenix Life responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr H remained unhappy and 
asked our service to investigate. Phoenix Life provided consent for our service to look into 
the merits of this complaint. 
Our investigator issued their view explaining why they thought Phoenix Life hadnt done 
anything wrong when setting the annual bonus at zero for multiple years. Mr H didnt agree. 
Therefore, the complaint has passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id note this policy was sold some time ago and there is limited information available. This 
isnt unusual given the passage of time. However, it does mean Ive relied on the evidence I 
do have and what I think is more likely to have happened on balance. 
I appreciate Mr H was considerably disappointed Phoenix Life did not provide any further 
annual bonuses from around 2010 for his policy. Ive reviewed the sale documentation, but I 
dont have everything and what I do have doesnt provide an explanation of how the bonuses 
worked. However, its unlikely the information would have confirmed annual or final bonuses 
were guaranteed given the way such policies worked. 
Our investigator requested a copy of the letter from 2009/2010 confirming Phoenix Lifes 
approach to bonuses. However, it has not been provided. Mr H has confirmed what he 
understood from the letter and that he had previously sent our service a document which 
confirmed the decision to stop paying bonuses. Therefore, Ive considered the information I 
do have. 
The earliest copy of an update Phoenix Life has been able to provide is from September 
2012. This confirmed they had reviewed certain products in 2009 and that it was unlikely 
theyd be able to pay a final bonus. The statement confirmed no new annual bonus had been 
added. 
Ive also reviewed the letter sent to Mr H on 7 September 2014. Phoenix Life said they had 
carried out a review in 2009 and confirmed it was unlikely theyd now be able to pay any final 
bonus when the policy matured. Mr Hs statement was attached, and it also confirmed there 
were no new annual bonuses added for that year, and it was unlikely a final bonus would be 
paid. They also set out where Mr H could find more information about how the with-profits 
endowment policy worked including information about the bonuses. 
Ive seen the factsheet provided by Phoenix Life with their final response. Im also satisfied 
Mr H had been able to access similar information as signposted in the statements. 
In the factsheet, Phoenix Life explained the annual bonuses had previously been added 
where the fund had earned a higher investment return, and the build-up of premiums grew to 
a value higher than the sum assured. It went on to explain, the annual bonus rates had been 
nil in recent years because the benefits already guaranteed (sums assured and annual 
bonuses) were relatively high compared to the investment returns and other profits. They 
explained they would only add annual bonuses where they were confident the build-up of 
premiums would be enough to enable them to pay these bonuses at the end date, even if 
future investment returns were unfavourable.
Overall, Im satisfied this is in line with how the with-profits endowment policy worked. The 
annual bonus wasnt something guaranteed as part of the policy. The evidence doesnt 
persuade me Phoenix Life changed the terms of Mr Hs policy. Although they didnt declare 
further annual bonuses, Im satisfied this was related to the level of returns from the 
underlying investments as opposed to a change in the terms of the policy. The underlying 
fund was impacted by economic factors and market performance which meant the 
investment returns werent sufficient for Phoenix Life to guarantee further bonuses. It was 
also reasonable for them to confirm it was unlikely future final bonuses would be declared.
I know Mr H is concerned how Phoenix Life would know whether they could or couldnt pay 
bonuses in the future. However, they could consider how the underlying investment had 
performed and how it might perform. Again, theyd need to be satisfied the build-up of 
premiums would be enough to pay any bonuses guaranteed. This is ultimately a decision for 
Phoenix Life to make and it was reasonable to outline an approach where they didnt 
anticipate there would be sufficient build up for future bonuses. For these reasons, Im 
satisfied Phoenix Life have acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman