DRN-2364492
The complaint
Mr L complains Barclays Bank UK Plc will not refund some disputed transactions.
What happened
Mr L initially complained about transactions which left his account between April and August 
2019.  He said in total, just under £18,000 had been withdrawn from his account.  Mr L 
explained he was away from home for months due to the nature of his work and had not 
looked at his statements until he returned.  Upon his most recent return, his wife had left him 
and had taken this money out of his account.
When he spoke to Barclays, he said he had not generally looked at statements in the past.  
His wife would be responsible for the finances whilst he was away with work.  He said he 
paid her an allowance every month to cover the bills and she was not supposed to take any 
more than that.  When asked about payments made to a credit card, he confirmed the card 
was in his name and his wife had been paying the bills from his Barclays account.
When Barclays investigated his complaint, it said it would be holding Mr L liable for these 
transactions as they were like transactions made in the past on his account  as in made 
using Mr Ls online banking and made using a device which appeared to have also been 
used for genuine transactions.  The transactions generally involved transfers to his wifes 
account and these had been taking place for years  some as far back as 2012.
But Mr L said he had never set up online banking.  He was not aware it was a facility on his 
account.  Barclays said it could only have been set up by someone who knew Mr Ls secure 
information.  It looked like it was being used on the account before 2012 so it was unable to 
provide any information as to how it was set up.
Barclays offered Mr L £150 for poor customer service but refused to refund the transactions 
Mr L now complained of.
Mr L was not happy with this response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not think he could ask Barclays to do anymore so Mr L made further 
submissions and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, if it seems more likely than not that Mr L did not authorise these 
transactions, Barclays must refund them.  The relevant rules say this.  And I remind myself 
that it is for Barclays to show Mr L authorised the transactions rather than for Mr L to show 
that he did not.
Authorisation has two elements  authentication and consent.
Authentication in this case is the use of Mr Ls secure information using his online banking.  I 
have seen the evidence and I am satisfied that the payments were authenticated.
I know Mr L submits he knows nothing about online banking being set up  and Barclays can 
no longer provide this service with the evidence necessary.  I dont think that is 
unreasonable as it was set up such a long time ago and Mr L has delayed in complaining 
about it.
The second element of authorisation is consent.  I need to decide if the evidence suggests it 
more likely than not that Mr L consented to these payments.
From what I have seen and read, I think he did.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the relevant rules here) say that Mr L can be 
bound by the actions of a third party, in this case his wife, in certain circumstances.
Mr L told Barclays that his wife had control of the finances both when he was away and 
when he was at home  to the point where he never checked his statements. 
And he told this service he hadnt noticed the balance in the account reducing but I dont 
think that can be right.  I know Mr L was using his card whilst he was away, and I can see 
that he would also check the balance on the account.  So, when he says he was not aware 
of the transactions until he returned, I think he must be mistaken.
I dont think there can be any doubt that he gave his wife his authority to perform tasks for 
him whilst he was away.  And the PSRs say that if Mr L has allowed his wife to appear as if 
she had his authority (as in being responsible for the finances and making bill payments from 
his account), then any other payments she makes are likely to be considered to be 
authorised even when he hasnt asked her to make them.  In fact, he doesnt even need to 
know about them.
On balance, I dont think it can be right that Mr L had not noticed a large amount of 
transaction over so many years.  I think its more likely than not that  as he says  his wife 
controlled the finances on his account.  I think this included having access to his online 
banking too.
I cant be sure Mr L knew about each and every payment leaving his account but, in the 
circumstances, he doesnt need to.  I am satisfied his wife had his authority to access and 
use his account and I agree that this a matter between Mr L and his wife to resolve between 
them.
So, I have seen nothing to suggest Barclays has been unfair or unreasonable in how it 
handled Mr Ls complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman