DRN-3301846
Complaint
Mr W is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do more to protect 
him when he was targeted by fraudsters.
Background
Mr W has an account with NatWest. In 2021, he was looking for investment opportunities 
online. He saw an advert for an investment company and contacted it. A representative of 
that investment company contacted him and persuaded him to place significant investments 
in cryptoassets. Unfortunately, Mr W hadnt been interacting with a broker at all. Hed been 
contacted by a scammer. He opened an account with a third-party business that operates a 
cryptocurrency exchange. He used his account on this site to purchase cryptocurrency which 
he then transferred to the scammers virtual wallet. He made around £6,500 worth of 
payments from his NatWest account to the third-party business that operated the crypto-
exchange.
Shortly afterwards, he lost contact with the investment company. He recognised hed likely 
fallen victim to a scam. He notified NatWest, but it didnt agree to pay him a refund. Unhappy 
with that response, Mr W referred his complaint to this service. It was looked at by an 
Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator said that, although NatWest was expected 
to be on the lookout for unusual or out of character transactions that might highlight the risk 
that Mr W had been targeted by fraudsters, these transactions werent sufficiently out of 
character that they wouldve justified intervention.
The first payment of £2,000 was smaller than many other transfers made from this account. 
The second payment of £4,527 was significantly larger and did prompt a conversation 
between Mr W and a bank employee. During that call, Mr W was asked a series of questions 
by a NatWest employee to identify whether he was at risk of fraud. He told the bank 
employee that he was making the transfer to his own crypto wallet, hed successfully 
withdrawn money from the account before, he was investing independently (rather than 
using a broker), hed chosen this platform on the basis of a recommendation from a friend 
and hed been investing in cryptocurrency for years, but with other platforms. Based on the 
responses Mr W gave to those questions, the bank employee allowed the payment to be 
processed.
The Investigator thought that NatWest had asked Mr W a reasonable and proportionate set 
of questions to establish whether it was likely hed been targeted by a scam. 
Overall, he didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong in allowing these payments to be 
processed. Mr W was unhappy with the Investigators view and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no disagreement that Mr W authorised the payments, albeit he only did so because 
he was duped into believing he was participating in a genuine investment opportunity. 
Although he didnt intend for the money to eventually go to the scammers, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, he is presumed liable in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code
Mr W has referred to the CRM code. However, that code isnt applicable in a case like this 
one. The CRM Code offers customers redress in certain circumstances, but it only applies to 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams as defined in that code. The code defines an APP 
scam as:
a transfer of funds  authorised by a customer in accordance with regulation 67 of 
the Payment Services Regulations where  the Customer transferred funds to 
another person for what they believed were legitimate purposes, but which were in 
fact fraudulent.
In this instance, Mr W instructed NatWest to process a payment from his account to another 
account that he controlled but held with a different business. The CRM code is clear that it 
only covers circumstances where the payment is made by the customer to another person  
so regrettably, I dont think it offers him any protection here.
Could NatWest have prevented the scam payments?
Good industry practice required NatWest be on the lookout for account activity that 
suggested there was an enhanced risk that Mr W had been targeted by fraudsters. It is now 
known (with the benefit of hindsight) that Mr W had been targeted by unscrupulous 
fraudsters. But I must consider the position that NatWest was in at the time Mr W asked it to 
make these payments and whether it can be said that it shouldve recognised that he was at 
risk of significant financial harm, knowing what it knew at the time.
Mr W has said that NatWest shouldve recognised that there was a sudden increase in 
spending, but Im afraid I dont agree with him. The first payment he made in connection with 
the scam (for £2,000) wasnt out of character or unusual. The statement data provided by 
NatWest shows that it wasnt uncommon for him to make transfers of this size and several 
recent payments from his account were larger.It successfully identified that when Mr W asked NatWest to make the second payment of 
£4,527 the following day, this did represent a change in spending behaviour. As a result, the 
payment wasnt processed until an employee of the bank spoke to Mr W to satisfy 
themselves that he wasnt at risk of fraud.
Unfortunately, Mr W wasnt completely candid with the NatWest when answering these 
questions. He was asked whether he was investing independently or using the services of a 
broker and he chose to not mention that hed been contacted by a broker.
I cant say that NatWest should fairly and reasonably have been expected to prevent the 
scam given the answers Mr W gave to its questions. If hed explained to the bank employee 
that he was making these payments on the advice of an online broker, Id have expected the 
call to have been handled differently.
Mr W says that the initial movement of funds from his NatWest to the cryptocurrency 
exchange was essentially the first of a series of linked events that led to his loss. He points 
out that, if NatWest had successfully stopped him from making that transfer, it wouldve 
prevented the subsequent actions that led to his loss and so he thinks NatWest should be 
considered as the cause of his losses.
However, given the nature of the payment instructions he gave and the information it 
gathered from him when they discussed the second payment, I dont find that NatWest did 
anything wrong in deciding that Mr W wasnt at risk of fraud or financial harm. I therefore 
dont think it can be said to have done anything wrong in allowing the payments to be 
processed.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman