DRN-3883843
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R (the complainants) have presented a case related to their respective 
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) and Mr Rs pension. The three accounts had a total 
value of around £500,000 in August 2021, when they were undertaken by Station Associates 
Limited (Station) for the provision of advice and ongoing servicing. The complainants say 
Station did as follows:
Recommended unsuitable portfolios for each of their accounts. [issue 1]
Reneged on its promise to rectify issue 1, by revising each portfolio; and breached 
their repeated, direct and explicit instructions to rectify issue 1, by revising each 
portfolio. [issue 2]
Failed to provide effective performance reviews, as part of the ongoing service they 
paid for. [issue 3]
Failed to give support to address investment platform problems. [issue 4]
Committed a data protection breach. [issue 5]
Mishandled their complaint between February and June 2022, including dishonest, 
misleading, secretive and delaying behaviours; continued some of these behaviours 
even after referral of the complaint to our service. [issue 6]
Misled them on the charges for the platform on which their investments were held. 
[issue 7]
Refused to provide its service (from July 2022 onwards) and forced them to find and 
appoint new advisors (at additional costs) to assist in rectifying issue 1. [issue 8]
Station disputes the complaint.
What happened
Complaint Issues
The complainants were jointly advised by Station. Their main submissions for each of the 
complaint issues are summarised below.
Issue 1
Mr Rs profile was based on a medium/high attitude to risk and an objective for better 
investment performance; he had no interest in ethical investments (for example, his pre-
existing ISA portfolio held no ethical funds); he had a limited interest in sustainable 
investments, so long as they did not compromise the pursuit for performance (the pre-
existing ISA portfolio had no more than 3% in a fund that might be termed a sustainable 
fund); and that pursuit was paramount. 
Station knew he wanted better investment performance and it undertook to help him achieve 
that. It initially misguided itself in this respect, and referred to ethical and sustainable 
investments being part of the objective. The complainants corrected this. Station conceded 
the correction and gave its assurance that performance was the objective to be pursued. It 
also said it is merely a coincidence that its investment recommendations were also ethical 
and sustainable.
In August 2021, Station recommended the following ethical and sustainable funds for his ISA 
(valued at around £80,000) and pension (valued at around £360,000) portfolios  
Premier Miton Ethical  14% each portfolio.
Stewart Investors Asia Pacific and Japan Sustainability (14%)
Blackrock GF Sustainable Energy (13%)
EdenTree Responsible and Sustainable UK Equity Opportunities (12%)
Baillie Gifford Positive Change (9%)
Liontrust UK Ethical (8%)
EdenTree Responsible and Sustainable European Equity (6%)
Liontrust Sustainable Future Managed Growth (5.25%)
Janus Henderson Global Sustainable Equity (4%)
The above, in total, occupied just over 85% of each portfolio. He accepted the 
recommendations because Station had assured him that they were made to meet the 
performance objective, and that their ethical and sustainable characteristics were 
coincidental.
As Station subsequently conceded, during a meeting in February 2022, there was no such 
coincidence, the recommendations had been wrongly made with focus on ethical and 
sustainable investments, that unduly compromised Mr Rs objective and limited scope in the 
portfolios for fund selection, it resulted in unbalanced portfolios lacking in diversification, it 
over-exposed them to high and concentrated risks, and, overall, it resulted in unsuitable 
portfolios.
Mrs Rs profile was based on the same pursuit for better investment performance; that was 
the objective for her ISA; she had a low/medium attitude to risk; and she had absolutely no 
interest in ethical and sustainable investments.
As Stations advice was given to the complainants jointly, the same journey leading to its 
recommendations to Mr R applied to its recommendations to Mrs R. In her case, despite 
Stations error having been corrected and despite additional clarifications given to it that 
ethical and sustainable investments formed no part of her objective, it recommended the 
following ethical and sustainable funds for her ISA portfolio (valued at around £60,000)  
ASI Ethical Corporate Bonds (10% of the portfolio)
Premier Miton Ethical (10%)
EdenTree Responsible and Sustainable UK Equity Opportunities (8%)
Baillie Gifford Positive Change (8%)
Liontrust UK Ethical (8%)
Rathbone Ethical Bond (7%)
Stewart Investors Asia Pacific Leaders Sustainability (6%)
Janus Henderson Global Sustainable Equity (5%)
EdenTree Responsible and Sustainable European Equity (4%)This, in total, constituted 66% of her ISA portfolio. Like Mr R, she accepted the 
recommendations because of Stations assurance that they were made to meet the 
performance objective, and that their ethical and sustainable characteristics were 
coincidental. The same concession and conclusions by Station, in February 2022, about the 
unsuitable aspects of Mr Rs portfolios applied to Mrs Rs portfolios too, for the same 
reasons.
Issue 2
At the meeting with Station in February 2022 the complaint about issue 1 was discussed. 
Station understood that the complainants wanted the unsuitability of their portfolios to be 
rectified, and wanted the portfolios to be suitably composed. A conference call was held in 
March 2022 and the same was made clear to it. It agreed and undertook to put them in the 
suitable portfolios that they ought to have been in, and to compensate them for any 
loss/difference. Station nominated a specific official (a Director) to lead this correction.
No corrective action was taken thereafter. The complainants chased Station to uphold their 
promise and to execute the required portfolio corrections. They coupled this with 
correspondence expressly instructing the portfolio corrections. They sent the relevant emails 
to Station in March, April, May and June 2022. Station never acted as instructed. Initially it 
gave them the impression that the resolution it promised was in progress. Then it reversed 
its position, disputed the complaint and, in July 2022, confirmed that it could no longer 
provide service to them.
Issue 3
Up to May 2022 Station charged them for ongoing financial advice. This included 
performance reviews, and they were entitled to three such reviews in the first year of service. 
It was agreed that an initial review would happen in October 2021 to reflect on all the 
recommendations and investments that had been made at the outset. Then Stations 
standard review cycles in January and June/July would apply. No meaningful performance 
reviews  extending to reviews of suitability  ever happened, and Station has been unable 
to provide documented evidence of one.
The October 2021 meeting took place, but it fell short of a credible review. The adviser was 
incapable of explaining performance in their portfolios and the summary of the meeting she 
sent thereafter was inaccurate. 
By January 2022 they became frustrated by the underperformance they could see in their 
portfolios. This was compounded by the lack of a proper performance review up to this point. 
They asked for one, and asked for the presence of a manager or director at the review 
meeting. This led into the six months performance review meeting in February 2022, where 
a director was present and where they made their complaint. The director gave the first and 
only explanation of performance they received  which Station now denies. No subsequent 
performance review took place. 
Station had the investment platform access and professional capabilities to monitor and 
make sense of performance in their portfolios. They did not have that. They were 
significantly deprived by the lack of reviews by Station, despite having paid for an ongoing 
service that included them.
Issue 4
During August and September 2021 Mr R was unable to gain access to the investment 
platform (recommended by Station). He complained, in both months, to the platform provider about this problem, and Station was copied into the complaint. The matter was discussed 
with Station during the October 2021 meeting, it said it would help to escalate the complaint 
but there is no evidence that it took any action at the time.
Complaints continued to be sent to the platform provider (copied to Station) during October, 
November and December 2021. Mr R had no access to the platform account and no 
explanation for what he was experiencing. He eventually gained such access in January 
2022, but there remained no explanation for the problem he previously experienced. The 
matter was discussed further in the February 2022 meeting, and Station offered support in 
reaching a resolution with the platform provider.
Throughout February, March, April, May and June 2022 Mr R maintained his complaint 
correspondence with the platform provider (copying Station). Eventually, in June, the 
platform provider explained the problem, and issued an apology and a compensation offer 
which were accepted in good faith. However, the fact remains that the issue lasted around 
11 months, and despite Stations offers of assistance, there is no evidence that it provided 
any assistance.
Issue 5
In June 2021 the Station adviser sent, in an unencrypted email, all the complainants 
personal and financial details to a third-party. The third-party was unknown to them, and the 
data breach was also unknown to them at the time. The adviser does not dispute this and 
the matter was not acknowledged or admitted by Station until they found out and challenged 
it. Station tried to hide the matter. In addition to the obvious data protection breach, it also 
constituted breaches of Stations regulatory obligations and of its terms of service. 
Issue 6
Despite Station undertaking to treat any expression of dissatisfaction as a complaint, 
it failed to do so in response to the dissatisfaction they expressed about issue 5 in 
June 2021; it failed to do so in July and August 2021 when they expressed 
dissatisfaction about errors in the advisers assessments and suitability letter (and 
the approach she adopted in giving her advice); it failed to do so in response to the 
dissatisfaction they expressed about the advisers inaccurate October 2021 meeting 
summary; and it failed to do so in response to the concern they raised about the 
advisers service in January 2021.
Station did not follow the regulators complaint handling guidelines. It misled them in 
February 2022 to believe a formal complaint was not required, as matters would be 
resolved, but it appears to have initiated a formal complaints process around that 
time without their knowledge. Subsequently, its investigation outcome was issued on 
27 April 2022, outside the eight weeks in which it should have concluded the 
process. They replied on 30 April 2022 to challenge the outcome. It then withdrew 
the outcome and reinvestigated the complaint, but the next decision it gave on 30 
June 2022 was issued more than eight weeks after their response of 30 April. 
Overall, their complaint in February 2022 took 18 weeks to address, and Station did 
not even deal with all the elements of the complaint. 
Station refused to use all the relevant facts and evidence in investigating and 
determining their complaint.
As mentioned above, and in the summary for issue 2, Station misled them during the 
complaints process.Issue 7
Station has confirmed that the platform provider  Aegon ARC  misled it (and therefore 
misled them) about its platform charges. A key point in this issue is that it took a review by 
their new advisers to identify that the charges were incorrect. Station had not previously 
noticed this, despite having advised them for a year. Their new advisers are pursuing this 
issue directly with Aegon ARC. 
Issue 8
Station compounded their wrongdoings in issues 1 to 7 by deciding, in July 2022, to 
withdraw its service. This meant it had invested their portfolios unsuitably, acknowledged this 
and promised to rectify it, led them to believe it was working on the rectification, then 
decided no to do so (without being transparent about this), then mishandled their complaint 
(which it initially concealed and then misrepresented to them), then rejected their complaint 
with no action taken to rectify the portfolios, and then left them (on their own) to pursue such 
rectification elsewhere.
Stations Position
With regards to the complainants portfolios, Station says it initially considered that an offer 
should be made to rectify them; however, on closer review, it is evident that the portfolios 
were suitable for their profiles; the ethical and sustainable funds were reasonably deemed 
unlikely to have a detrimental effect on performance; the funds had good historical 
performances; the portfolios remained well diversified despite their inclusion; in the absence 
of a specified reason or preference not to use them, it was not unreasonable to recommend 
(and use) them; and the complainants did not specifically ask for anything to be excluded 
from their portfolios, so there was no reason not to include these funds. 
Station disputes that its director conceded any wrongdoing in the matter, and it notes that its 
advice complied with its regulated process, was based on accurate profile assessments for 
the complainants and was agreed by them. It says it did not mishandle the complaints 
process and did not mislead the complainants as they allege. It considers that their portfolios 
were suitable, so it says it was their choice to appoint new advisers (at a cost) to change 
them, but as a gesture of goodwill it is prepared to refund its initial advice fee to them. It 
explained to them that the events leading to and including their ongoing complaint meant it 
could not continue to advise them, and it applied no further ongoing service charges to their 
accounts thereafter.
Overall, Station does not consider it has done anything wrong in any of the complaint issues, 
and it views issue 1 as based on the complainants hindsight and being their reaction to 
short term portfolio underperformance (caused by global events at the time), despite the 
portfolios having been invested (as agreed) for the long term. It performed the reviews in 
issue 3, it did not cause issues 4 and 7, and it resolved issue 5.
Our Investigation
One of our investigators concluded that the complaint, overall, should be upheld. He mainly 
found as follows:
There is documentary evidence of a settlement offer from Station that was never 
presented to the complainants. The contents of the offer letter confirm Stations 
acceptance that their portfolios had been unsuitably advised and that they should be 
compensated for that. Wider evidence suggests that the offer was not approved by Stations PI insurer, this could explain why it was not sent out. There is also evidence 
that supports the complainants position on their dealings with the adviser, in terms of 
problems with her recommendation and their clarification that they were not ethical or 
sustainable investors. The correlation between the ethical and sustainable funds that 
formed the majority in all the portfolios led to a concentration of exposure to risks 
associated with such funds, and it unduly limited them to this particular part of the 
fund universe. Overall, the recommended portfolios were unsuitable and the 
complainants should receive redress for financial loss arising from that. 
There is evidence that the complainants agreed with the recommended funds, 
despite the concerns they raised about them at the time, only because they believed 
the advisers claim that they were good, performing funds that just happened to be 
ethical and sustainable. Their personal notes of the meeting in February 2022 are 
reliable and they show that Station agreed, in the meeting, to rectify the portfolios. 
The notes were reflected in the many chasers (asking for the promised rectification) 
they sent to Station thereafter, and up to June 2022. Overall, Station failed to act on 
their instructions and left them with unsuitable portfolios.
Station fulfilled the requirement for review meetings. In addition to the initial sale, it 
met with the complainants twice thereafter, which matched the agreement between 
the parties.
Little more can be added to the data breach matter. The mistake (emailing the 
complainants details to the wrong address) was made by the adviser; it was not 
disclosed to them and they had to find out about it themselves; the adviser has 
confirmed that the details sent have been deleted; Station was made aware of the 
matter at Director level; and an apology has been given. However, the complainants 
deserve more than that; they should receive a total of £500 compensation for the 
distress this issue has caused them, including the distress caused by issues 1 and 2.
Based on the amounts invested in their portfolios, on the fact that they were/are a 
couple, and given that they could combine funds, the platform charge of 0.15% 
(instead of the standard charge of 0.3%) could be obtained. The complainants learnt 
the higher charge was applied by Aegon ARC. There is evidence that Station, in the 
course of setting up the platform account, set it up for the lower charge and formally 
told Aegon ARC to apply the lower charge. Station did not mislead the complainants 
in this respect and it was/is not its fault that the incorrect charge was applied.
After Stations withdrawal of service, the complainants should not have been 
penalised by having to incur additional costs in appointing new advisers to rectify the 
unsuitable portfolios created by Station. Station should have fixed those portfolios for 
them. For this reason, Station should refund to them its initial advice fees (£3,950). 
Station retained its position and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
The complainants considered that some of the complaint issues should be revisited and 
some of the investigators findings should be reviewed. They also gave a detailed rebuttal to 
submissions made by Station, which we noted, and raised queries about our services 
process and our relationship with the regulator, which a second investigator addressed 
separately.
With regards to their portfolios, they said they were essentially trapped in the unsuitable 
portfolios up to July 2022 when they had to find help elsewhere to reconstitute them; they 
found a new adviser firm in the following month, and it took another month for the new firm to conduct its due diligence and give its advice (at the cost of around £4,000); and the 
portfolios funds were changed in October and November 2022, by which time their total 
value had dropped to around £405,000.
The complainants say that, with inflation factored in, their portfolios had lost around 
£122,000 between August 2021 and October 2022 due to Stations wrongdoings in issues 1 
and 2. They consider that most of the financial harm caused by its wrongdoings happened 
from February 2022 onwards when it persistently refused to act on their instructions to fix the 
portfolios. The impact, they say, includes a change in Mr Rs retirement plans, whereby his 
retirement is delayed by up to five years (because of the loss), in addition to profound 
personal ongoing distress caused by the matter.
In addition, the complainants mainly say  
Issues 3 and 4  For issue 3, Station has no record or report of a performance review 
or discussion having been conducted in the October 2021 meeting, in the February 
2022 meeting or at any other time during its service. A similar point applies to issue 
4, as Station has no evidence that it contacted Aegon ARC to assist in resolving the 
platform access problem they faced. These issues should be upheld.
Issue 5  The distress award of £500 (for this issue and for issues 1 and 2) is 
insufficient, given the significant impact that all aspects of their case, and all aspects 
of Stations actions/inactions, have had on them.
Issue 6  In addition to evidence of Stations misconduct whilst handling their 
complaint internally (as summarised above), our service has directly witnessed 
further misconduct from it since referral of the complaint to us. We have said Station 
missed some of our communication response deadlines. Furthermore, in their 
General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) related pursuit, Station repeatedly 
failed to respond, and the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) declared it had 
fallen short of its obligation in this respect (and that it should provide them with the 
information they asked for). This issue should be upheld.
The complaint was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision focuses on determining the complaint issues and any redress (and 
compensation) due to the complainants. For this reason, I do not address their rebuttals to 
Stations submissions or their comments on our process and our role alongside the 
regulators. I consider that these, especially the latter, have been sufficiently addressed 
between the two investigators that managed the case. 
I have considered all the information shared with us and, as much as I can, I have 
summarised the main components of the case above. My findings, as set out below, are 
based on all that I have considered.
Issues 1 and 2
I uphold these issues. 
I am satisfied with the balance of documentary evidence showing that the three portfolios were unsuitably invested (upon Stations advice) in August 2021, and that Station repeatedly 
and unreasonably failed to execute the complainants monthly instructions and reminders, 
between February and June 2022, to reinvest the portfolios suitably. As they have stated, 
evidence in this respect is broadly undisputable. 
The complainants agreed with the funds recommended for their portfolios. They do not deny 
this and they have explained why, despite their concerns about those funds, they did. Their 
reason is supported by evidence. There is correspondence between them and their adviser 
in which they clearly corrected her misdirection on the matter of ethical and sustainable 
investments, in which she accepted their correction and in which she assured them that her 
recommendations were purely for performance and coincidentally ethical and sustainable.
Contents of Stations unissued 2022 offer letter to the complainants (sent internally within 
Station on 30 March 2022) conflict with the advisers assurance. I note the following  
[The adviser] had chosen funds based on her belief, due to conversations had with 
yourselves, that sustainable funds were your preference, as long as performance was not 
compromised by investing in such funds. The funds, at the time of recommendation were 
well reviewed by Morningstar or had a good track record of performance at the time, even 
against non ethical funds, hence the reason for [the adviser] standing by these funds at the 
time. Unfortunately due to recent unexpected global geopolitical factors the markets have 
become extremely volatile. Less ethical stocks have performed better in the time that you 
have held your investments [my emphasis]
 I believe that the consistent message from yourselves throughout your dealings with [the 
adviser] is that you have no particular ethical drivers for your investments, but it would be a 
nice to have as long as performance was the key driver.  The choice of the funds in the 
portfolios does not seem to reflect this 
The above serves as evidence that the funds the adviser recommended, based on the 
mistaken notion that ethical/sustainable funds determined the complainants investment 
objective, remained the funds she stood by. Wider evidence (from correspondence in 2021) 
already confirmed this, even before the unissued 2022 letter. 
It appears that despite the complainants correcting her error and clarifying their position at 
the outset, no revision work was conducted in response. Instead, the recommendation 
remained the same and was seemingly rebranded to them as no longer being based on an 
ethical and sustainable objective, and as being based on a performance objective. In other 
words, the portfolios remained invested in funds that had initially been selected mainly for 
their ethical and sustainable characteristics. 
Consideration of the description and profiles of the relevant funds makes it reasonably clear 
that ethical and sustainable objectives were important within them. As stated in the previous 
section, at least 85% of Mr Rs portfolios were occupied by them and 66% of Mrs Rs 
portfolio was occupied by them. These were significantly high proportions. In Mrs Rs case 
she wanted no such funds, and in Mr Rs case he had a minimal tolerance for sustainable 
funds (only) and no tolerance for ethical funds. Using his previous portfolio as a form of 
guidance, this minimal tolerance probably translated to an allowance of around 3% for each 
of his portfolios. 
In the above context, the 85% and 66% ethical and sustainable funds exposure in the 
complainants portfolio was significantly and inherently unsuitable. 
Stations present position is that regardless of the funds having these particular 
characteristics, they were nevertheless good performing funds, so they still met the complainants objective and were therefore suitable. 
Its earlier evidence presents some conflict with this. It previously accepted that Less ethical 
stocks have performed better in the time that you have held your investments. 
The unissued offer letter also said  This has led to your investments falling in value below 
the original amounts invested and below the value of a normal (ie not ethically or 
sustainably biased) portfolio; and it proceeded to calculate, and state, that Mr Rs portfolios 
had underperformed in comparison to a less sustainable portfolio by 4.27% and that Mrs 
Rs had underperformed by 5.43%. The letter concludes with an offer to pay them 
compensation for their loss.
The letter supports the complainants records and accounts of the meeting in February 2022 
and of Stations undertaking to them that it accepted responsibility for their unsuitable 
portfolios and responsibility to redress the matter. Like the investigator, and for this reason, I 
too consider their records to be reliable.
Within its present position, Station cites cumulative performance comparison graphs for the 
following periods  two and a half years, two years, one year, three months and one month; 
all ending in February 2022. All but the two and a half years and the two years graphs show 
underperformance (as of February 2022) of the complainants portfolios compared to 
benchmark portfolios. The matter addressed in the February 2022 meeting was the 
underperformance of their portfolios at the time, and since August 2021. The one year graph 
shows underperformance problems arising around October 2021 and then setting in around 
December 2021. The three months and one month graphs mainly show underperformance 
throughout their respective periods. These graphs appear to have been used during the 
meeting, and they support the complainants point.
In the above context  that is, knowing it had given unsuitable investment advice, knowing its 
advice had already led to losses (within six months), knowing it had promised to fix the 
portfolios and redress the losses and knowing the matter needed to be urgently addressed 
(given the inherently time sensitive nature of investments)  it is quite indefensible that 
Station thereafter failed to change and reinvest the portfolios. It appears to have exercised 
discretion to reverse its initial decision (and undertaking to the complainants) to uphold the 
matter and pay redress. Given the evidence, I do not consider such a reversal to be 
reasonable. However, doing that was one thing, but to ignore the pressing need to repair the 
portfolios was another, and was distinctly irresponsible. Especially so because the 
complainants repeatedly reminded it every month between February and June 2022.
This establishes a reasonably clear basis to find that Station repeatedly breached the 
complainants investment instructions. If, as they state, the financial damage from February 
2022 onwards has been the most significant, Station is responsible for that damage. It failed 
to repair the unsuitable portfolios in that month, it failed to compensate for the losses 
incurred up to that month, it accepted responsibility for both at the time, and then it 
subsequently failed to act upon clear instructions and reminders to repair the unsuitable 
portfolios. 
Issue 3
On balance, and based on the complainants own submissions and on the facts of their 
case, I am not persuaded that Station did anything wrong in this issue.
The issue is about Stations ongoing service and the portfolio/performance reviews that 
should have happened within that service. It is the complainants evidence that when the adviser sent details for the initial 3-month 
(October) performance review they were shocked at how poor the performance was and 
how little [the adviser] was able to provide by way of explanation, and that "Volatility" was 
the only explanation, but this made no sense as every single fund was losing money (not just 
the overall Portfolios), this at a time when indices were rising. 
This led to a performance review meeting (online, through Zoom) between the 
complainants and the adviser in October 2021. They have confirmed that the adviser 
addressed their performance concerns during this meeting, but on reflection they consider 
that she did so poorly. They also say she followed up the meeting with an erroneous 
summary. 
The complainants have said that the February 2022 face-to-face meeting, with the adviser 
and a Director of Station, was held at their request and for the purpose of discussing their 
performance concerns further. Indeed, that subject was discussed, leading to the 
concessions and promises from Station that I mentioned above. The Station Director made a 
catch-up call to them on 10 March 2022, during which they say he affirmed the promise to 
change the portfolio at no cost and to compensate them for loss. Thereafter, the complaints 
process featured and by June/July 2022 Stations ongoing service ended.
The complainants are entitled to take the view that the meetings in October 2021 and 
February 2022, and the telephone call in March 2022, all fell short of being meaningful 
reviews or discussions about the portfolios performances, or fell short of the performance 
reviews that they would have liked, but the fact is that all three were engaged in reviewing 
the performance of their portfolios. The two meetings were performance reviews, and they 
happened around the times that the complainants expected them to happen  that is, the 
first (in October 2021) in the aftermath of the initial investments, and the second (in February 
2022) around the start of the new year and around six months into the investments. 
It is also true to say that email correspondence around the two meetings, mainly with the 
adviser, also focused on the task of reviewing performance and contained some discussions 
in this respect. Again, even if the complainants felt/feel the emails lacked any value, they 
were nevertheless sent in relation to the ongoing performance reviews. Withdrawal of the 
service around June/July 2022 explains why they did not have the third meeting they say 
they were expecting  which would have happened in June/July 2022.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not uphold this issue.
Issues 4 and 7
In straightforward terms, I do not find that Station did anything wrong in these issues mainly 
because it is a matter of fact that neither was caused by Station, neither was within its 
responsibilities, the platforms operation and application of the platform fees were Aegon 
ARCs responsibilities, and Station could not reasonably have been expected to have any 
control over Aegon ARC in either respect. 
The complainants say they have not seen evidence of Station supporting their pursuit to 
have Aegon ARC fix the platform access problem. That does not automatically mean there 
was no such support, or that behind the scenes (or unseen) such support did not happen. It 
was reasonable for them to expect a degree of support from Station, after all the platform 
was its recommendation and they had just been onboarded unto it. Its support appears to 
have been promised and I do not have enough evidence to conclude, on balance, that they 
were misled in that respect. 
It was in Stations interest to help, for the same reason that it had recommended the platform and it probably wanted its recommendation to work without problems. It could have raised 
the matter with Aegon ARC in ways that were unrecorded and/or unknown to the 
complainants, and because of its interest in the matter it probably did this. Ultimately, it did 
not cause the problem and it did not hinder its resolution, and it is more likely (than not) that 
it tried to support them at the time. Overall, I do not find grounds to say it did something 
wrong in the matter.
As the investigator said, there is evidence that Station did as much as it could to set up the 
platform on the reduced fee rate. I have considered evidence associated with and supporting 
the following statement from the adviser  
 using Aegon ARCs bespoke charging calculator I ensured the lower platform charge was 
applied directly with Aegon. I also supplied [the complainants] with manually adjusted 
Illustrations to show the effect of the lower platform charging structured (attached)  As you 
will also see the lower bespoke platform charge was formally requested to be applied with 
Aegon as per my attached email. As to how the bespoke reduced platform cost with Aegon 
was calculated please see attached the Excel Calculator.
The complainants acknowledge that the matter needs to be addressed directly with Aegon 
ARC and they are doing so with assistance from their new adviser. Again, I do not find 
grounds to say Station did something wrong in this matter.
Issue 5
Station does not dispute this issue. The data breach occurred, as summarised above. 
Station has acknowledged it, assured the complainants that it has fixed it and apologised to 
the complainants. 
The breach was/is a serious matter. I consider that Station mishandled it by not disclosing 
and addressing it immediately in a transparent manner. It is also my view that, given its 
seriousness, the advisers communication to the complainants about it could have displayed 
more insight and reflection, and more sincerity in her expressions. I agree with the 
investigator that the complainants should receive an award for the distress caused by this 
issue.
The investigators proposal was to award £500 in this respect, inclusive of the distress 
caused to the complainants by issues 1 and 2. I understand their view that the award is 
insufficient. However, I disagree and I consider that it stands in the following context  
We are not the industry regulator, so we do not have the power to make punitive 
awards. Nothing in the award is aimed at punishing Station for the data breach, 
because it is outside our powers to do so. 
The award aims to provide the complainants with a monetary form of compensation 
for the distress and trouble they have been caused by the effect and impact of issues 
1, 2 and 5, distinct from any financial loss arising from these issues. 
No financial loss resulted from issue 5. The financial loss impact of issues 1 and 2 
will be separately addressed in my provisions and orders for redress below, so they 
are not to be duplicated in an award for distress.
The award level of £500 reasonably covers distress from the isolated event in issue 5 
and the trouble and upset that issues 1 and 2 would have caused the complainants.Issue 6
I distinguish and separate Stations conduct during our investigation of the complaint and the 
complainants reference to its conduct in their GDPR pursuit.
It is not uncommon for firms to need additional time to make representations to us or to 
respond to our enquiries. This does not automatically mean they are disrupting our process, 
and I have not seen evidence that Station disrupted our process for dealing with the present 
complaint. It is also not unusual for firms to dispute our findings, irrespective of the state of 
evidence, and to exercise their right to an Ombudsmans decision. Even if the complainants 
consider that Station ought to have yielded to the weight of evidence against its position, and 
settled the complaint, that does not remove or dilute its right to ask for an Ombudsmans 
decision  and it does not automatically make such a request unreasonable.
With regards to the GDPR and ICO related matter, both (separately or jointly) are beyond 
the complaint and issues that I am addressing and are within my remit to determine. 
Therefore, it is beyond the scope of this decision  especially as I lack involvement in and 
details of the matter  to make a finding on how Station has conducted itself within it.
I now turn to Stations internal handling of the complaint.
I can determine complaints about regulated activities, like Stations investment advice to the 
complainants. On its own, complaint handling is not a regulated activity (and it is not an 
ancillary activity connected to the conduct of a regulated activity). In some cases, it might be 
that a complaint to a firm and its alleged mishandling of it forms a part of the substantive 
case. For example, where the alleged mishandling of a complaint is said to have added to 
the substantive problem. Ordinarily, I would not address an issue about complaint handling 
in isolation. However, in these types of cases, addressing the firms complaint handling can 
be a necessary part of determining the overall complaint. I find that the present complaint is 
such a case.
Evidence shows that between the February 2022 meeting and, at least, up to the end of 
March 2022 (when the unissued offer letter was sent internally within Station), both sides 
had agreed on a resolution of the problems with the unsuitable portfolios (including repairing 
the portfolios and compensating the complainants for loss). 
Thereafter, Station changed course and completely abandoned the agreed resolution. It also 
appears to have switched the matter into one of a disputed formal complaint without, it 
seems, initially informing the complainant. Then, it was distracted by its focus on the process 
for the complaint and it wrongly used that as a reason to ignore repeated instructions from 
the complainants for action on their portfolios. The process created no obstacle to such 
action, even if it had decided to maintain that the portfolios were suitable  which they were 
not  the fact was that its clients were giving direct investment instructions that Station was 
obliged to execute, but failed to. Those instructions were not dependent on Stations 
complaint process.
In the end, Stations mishandling of the process (as summarised above) led to the 
complainants facing a position (in July 2022) in which their complaint was rejected, but 
arguably more importantly urgent remedial work required for their portfolios remained 
outstanding. In this respect, I note evidence of an email to Station around June 2022 that 
appears to have been from their PI insurers, suggesting that it consider, separately, giving 
advice on the changes to the portfolios. It chose not to.
For the above reasons, I agree that Station mishandled the internal complaints process and 
that it had a direct effect on, at the very least, issue 2. However, as I said above, it is beyond my remit to make punitive awards and the complainants financial loss in issue 1 (which 
essentially incorporates issue 2) is to be addressed separately. I have considered if Stations 
mishandling of the complaint should result in a higher distress award. I am not persuaded 
that it is tangible enough to do so. Station was entitled to apply the complaints process and 
its main wrongdoing was allowing that process to affect what it should have done in issue 2 
(which is to be addressed separately in terms of redress).
I note the complainants arguments about their earlier expressions of dissatisfaction which 
they say should have triggered an earlier complaints process. I consider this somewhat of a 
moot point. It does not appear to be their case that they sought to make formal complaints 
earlier but were denied due process, and it appears that the formal process in 2022 started 
without their awareness and happened, partly, without their desire for one  as they would 
have preferred Station to meet the promises it made in February 2022.
Issue 8
Station was entitled to withdraw and terminate its service as it saw fit. I have not seen any 
provisions in its terms of service that prevented it from doing that. However, it was wrong to 
have repeatedly denied the complainants execution of their investment instructions over the 
course of around five months up to the termination of service. I also consider that it was 
wrong not to address the need to change the portfolios, perhaps as a final task, before the 
termination of service. As I said above, it did not matter that its position at the time supported 
the recommended portfolios. The fact was that it was in receipt of repeated instructions from 
the complainants to change the portfolios, so it should have done that, even if that had to be 
done on an execution only basis.
Stations initial advice resulted in unsuitable portfolios for the complainants, it initially 
accepted this then it reneged on its promise to fix it, then it refused to execute the 
complainants instructions to fix the portfolios, and then it withdrew its service without having 
fixed the portfolios  leading to the complainants having to incur fresh fees from their new 
adviser in order to achieve what Station should have done for them.
For the above reasons, I agree with the investigators award of a refund, to the 
complainants, of Stations initial advice fees.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
The complainants should be put, as closely as possible, into the position they would 
probably now be in if they had been given suitable advice. I take the view that they would 
have invested differently, as evidence treated above confirms. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have invested their portfolios in, with suitable advice, but I am 
satisfied that the provisions and orders set out below provide for fair and reasonable 
redress (and compensation) to them.
What must Station do for Mrs R and Mr R?
Pay them £500 as compensation for the distress and trouble they have been 
caused in issues 1, 2 and 5, and for the reasons given above.
Repay, to them, the initial advice fee charged by Station, together with simple 
interest on that amount at the rate of 8% a year, starting from the date the fee was 
paid to Station and up to the date of settlement. The interest is to compensate them for being deprived of the refund amount from the start date to the date of settlement. 
What must Station do for Mrs R?
To compensate Mrs R fairly, Station must:
Compare, from the start date to the end date in the table below, the performance of 
her ISA investment portfolio with the notional value it would have if, at the outset, it 
had been invested in a non-ethical/sustainable biased portfolio suitable to her 
investor profile. 
If the actual value is greater than the notional or fair value, no compensation is 
payable. If the notional or fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss 
and the difference is compensation payable to Mrs R.
In the event that redress cannot be calculated, properly, on the basis of the 
aforementioned notional value, I have provided for an alternative benchmark below.
Station must pay the resulting compensation directly to Mrs R.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Station deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs R how much has been taken off. Station should give Mrs R a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Mr Rs 
ISAStill 
exists 
and 
liquidNotional value of a non-
ethical/sustainable 
biased portfolio suitable 
to Mrs Rs investor 
profile; or alternative 
benchmark (for half the 
portfolio  FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index; for 
the other half  average 
rate from fixed rate 
bonds)Date of 
investmentDate of 
settlementNot 
Applicable
Actual values
This means the actual amount payable from the portfolio at the end date.
Notional and Fair values
This is what the portfolio would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the applied benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the portfolio should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will 
accept if Station totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the fair value, instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Primarily, Mrs Rs ISA should have been invested in a non-ethical/sustainable 
biased portfolio suitable to her investor profile, hence my order to use the notional 
value of such a portfolio as the redress benchmark. However, if it is not possible to 
properly calculate redress on that basis, then the alternative benchmark and 
reasons below apply.
Mrs R wanted capital growth, but she had a low to medium risk profile.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mrs Rs low to medium risk profile was in between, in the sense that 
she was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objective. The 
50/50 combination would reasonably put her into that position. It does not mean that 
she would have invested 50% of her ISA in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return she could have obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude.
What must Station do for Mr R?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Station must:
Compare, from the start date to the end date in the table below, the performance of 
his portfolios with the notional values they would have if, at the outset, they had 
been invested in non-ethical/sustainable biased portfolios suitable to his investor 
profile. 
If the actual value is greater than the notional or fair value, no compensation is 
payable. If the notional or fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss 
and the difference is compensation payable to Mr R.
In the event that redress cannot be calculated, properly, on the basis of the 
aforementioned notional values, I have provided for an alternative benchmark 
below.
With regards to the ISA, Station should pay compensation directly to Mr R.With regards to the pension, Station should pay the compensation into Mr R's 
pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of the compensation and any 
interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available 
tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
With regards to the pension, if Station is unable to pay the total amount into Mr R's 
pension plan, it should pay that amount directly to him. Had it been possible to pay 
into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it is 
not a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr R would not be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation is paid.
With regards to the pension, the notional allowance should be calculated using     
Mr R's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
With regards to the pension, it is reasonable to assume that Mr R is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 
20%. However, if Mr R would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Station deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Station should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
1. Mr Rs 
Pension
2. Mr Rs 
ISAStill 
exists 
and 
liquidNotional values of non-
ethical/sustainable 
biased portfolios suitable 
to Mr Rs investor profile; 
or alternative benchmark 
(FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total 
Return Index)Date of 
investmentDate of 
settlementNot 
Applicable
Actual values
This means the actual amounts payable from the portfolios at the end date.
Notional and Fair values
This is what the portfolios would have been worth at the end date had they produced 
returns using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the portfolios should be added to the fair values calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolios should be deducted from the fair values calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Station totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the fair values, instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Primarily, Mr Rs Pension and ISA should have been invested in non-
ethical/sustainable biased portfolios suitable to his investor profile, hence my order 
to use the notional values of such portfolios as the redress benchmark. However, if 
it is not possible to properly calculate redress on that basis, then the alternative 
benchmark and reasons below apply.
Mr R wanted capital growth. He had a medium to high risk profile and he was willing 
to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr R's objective and medium to high risk profile.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000, £375,000 or £415,000 
(depending on when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to 
us) plus any interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the 
compensation limit the respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such 
balance is not part of my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and 
it is unlikely that a complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such 
balance. A complainant may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in 
this respect before deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In the complainants case, the complaint event occurred after 1 April 2019 and the complaint 
was referred to us after 1 April 2022 (but before 1 April 2023), so the applicable 
compensation limit would be £375,000.
decision and award 
I uphold the complainants complaint on the basis set out above. Fair compensation should 
be calculated as I have also stated above. My decision is that Station Associates Limited 
must pay them the amount produced by the calculations, up to the relevant maximum.
recommendation
If the amount produced by the calculations of fair compensation is more than the relevant 
maximum, I recommend that Station Associates Limited pay the complainants the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Station Associates Limited 
does not have to do what I recommend. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Rs and Mr Rs complaint, and I order Station 
Associates Limited to calculate and pay them redress and compensation (for the initial 
advice fee and for distress and trouble) as stated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman