DRN-2738594
The complaint
Ms W says UK Credit Limited acted irresponsibly when it accepted her as a guarantor on a 
loan taken out by a third party.
What happened
In May 2019 UK Credit gave a 36-month instalment loan for £6,000 to the borrower. The
monthly repayments were £287.89 and the total repayable was £10,364.04.
Ms W signed a Guarantee and Indemnity agreement in respect of the loan. That meant that
if the borrower failed to make the repayments UK Credit could seek repayment from Ms W.
This decision does not consider whether it was reasonable for UK Credit to give the loan to 
the borrower. It assesses whether it was reasonable for UK Credit to accept Ms W as a 
guarantor for the loan.
Ms W says she was pressured into being the guarantor and was being financially abused by 
the borrower and his partner. They were coercing her into taking out payday loans. The loan 
wasnt affordable, and this severely impacted her mental health. 
Our investigator concluded that Ms Ws complaint should be upheld. She said UK Credit did 
not make a fair lending decision based on the checks it carried out. But she did not find there 
were any signs UK Credit missed that suggested Ms W was being pressured to guarantee 
the loan.
UK Credit disagreed, saying there was no evidence the loan was unaffordable for Ms W at 
the point of sale. She was making all repayments for her existing debt and there were no 
signs she was struggling to do so.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending, as well as the key
rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice, is set out on our
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ws complaint.
I have considered the following questions in my assessment:
Did UK Credit obtain Ms Ws properly informed consent to become guarantor for the 
loan?
Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Ms W was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower
did not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the
time?
Ultimately, did UK Credit make a fair lending decision (given Ms W would be equally 
liable for this loan with the borrower)?
Did UK Credit obtain Ms Ws properly informed consent to become guarantor for the loan?
Ive listened to the call recordings on 16 and 21 May 2019 of the conversations between UK 
Credit and Ms W that were part of the loan application process. Ms W confirmed that she 
had signed the loan documents and that she was happy with the terms of the loan. UK 
Credit explained the role and responsibilities of being a guarantor and made clear that she 
was equally responsible for the debt. Ms W confirmed she was absolutely able to afford the 
loan and understood her role as guarantor. 
Ive also seen the Guarantee and Indemnity agreement signed by Ms W. This set out her
rights and obligations. So overall I think Ms W consented to becoming the loan guarantor 
and was told about the consequences of being a guarantor.
I have carefully considered what Ms W has said about being pressured to be the guarantor 
and her vulnerability at the time. I am sorry to hear about the position Ms W was in and I 
appreciate how difficult this would have been for her. But I think it is important for me to 
explain in order to reach a fair and reasonable decision I have to consider what information 
UK Credit had about this at the time and based on that information, if it ought to have known 
Ms W was vulnerable. 
Having listened to the calls between Ms W and UK Credit, I cannot fairly say that the lender 
should have concluded Ms W wasnt a willing guarantor. She appears positive, engaged and 
there is no evidence of prompting by a third-party. So while I dont dispute Ms Ws version of 
events as I appreciate this may not have been the reality, this is how she presents on the 
calls. So, overall, Ive found no evidence to allow me to fairly conclude that UK Credit should 
have been aware Ms W was under pressure to act as guarantor.
Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms W was 
in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did not? If not what
would better checks have shown? Did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
I can see UK Credit asked for some information from Ms W before accepting her as the 
guarantor.
It asked about her income and monthly expenses, but it seems it did not verify what she 
declared. It asked how much she repaid to her credit card and mail order accounts each 
month. It checked her credit file to understand her existing credit commitments and credit 
history. From these checks combined UK Credit concluded Ms W had sufficient income to
sustainably repay the loan, if needed, and that she would be left with £149.63 surplus 
income.
I am not satisfied these checks were proportionate given the value and term of the loan, and 
the fact Ms W already had over £40,000 of unsecured debt. I think it needed to verify her 
income and living costs to make sure it accurately assessed her disposable income. 
However, even from the checks it completed I dont think UK Credit made a fair lending 
decision. Ill explain why.
UK Credit could see from the credit check it carried out that Ms W had a significant level of 
debt and needed £748 a month to cover her loan repayments and at least £551 for her card 
accounts (assuming a 3% minimum monthly repayment). Giving this loan meant if she needed to make the repayments she would be spending over 60% of her declared income 
on credit. This is significant and I think UK Credit ought to have realised that there was a risk 
it would not be sustainable for Ms W over the term of the loan. And that she would most 
likely need to borrow to repay or suffer other adverse financial consequences. 
In addition, had UK Credit verified Ms Ws salary it would have seen it was less than the 
£2,400 she had declared. It averaged £2,191.38 over the three months prior to this loan. So 
not only was Ms W disposable income less than the lender calculated making the loan 
unaffordable on a pounds and pence basis, but the proportion of income she might needed 
to use to service her debt was even higher.
It follows I think UK Credit was wrong to accept Ms W as the guarantor for this loan.
Putting things right
UK Credit  in so far as is reasonably practicable  must put Ms W back in the position she 
would be in now if its wrong hadnt taken place. This means UK Credit putting Ms W in the 
position shed now be in if she hadnt unfairly and unreasonably been accepted as a 
guarantor on this loan.
It should:
a) Release Ms W from any obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement and
then terminate it.
b) Refund any payments made by Ms W as guarantor if she has many any. UK Credit
must add 8%* simple interest a year to each of those sums, from the date Ms W paid them 
to the date the refund is paid to her.
c) Remove any information about this loan from Ms Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit should give 
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Ws complaint. UK Credit Limited must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman