DRN-2766089
The complaint
Mr M complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim he made under his 
household insurance for theft from his home. 
What happened
Mr M held a contents insurance policy which was provided by AXA. He incepted his policy 
on 24 October 2018.
At some point between 25 and 26 November 2018 Mr Ms home was entered without his 
permission and a number of items were taken. Mr M was abroad at the time, having left his 
home on 1 November 2018, but his son was staying at his property on occasion. 
Mr M didnt find out about what had happened immediately, but the incident was reported 
promptly to the police by family members during the afternoon of 26 November 2018. At that 
time, the loss of a bicycle, keys and cash were reported. The bicycle was later returned.
Mr M returned home on 11 January 2019. However, AXA says he didnt contact it to report 
the incident and his loss until 5 June 2019. On that date, Mr M informed AXA that items had 
been stolen, which he wanted to claim for against his policy. He stated that, in addition to the 
theft of the items reported to the police, additional items of value had been stolen.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster, which Ill refer to as S here, to investigate what had 
happened and assist it in dealing with this claim. On 21 May 2019, S visited Mr Ms property. 
During this visit Mr M informed S that a significant number of additional items than those 
reported to AXA had also been stolen during the theft.
AXA had concerns regarding the circumstances of the incident and the fact that the loss list 
had increased again. So, it declined to settle Mr Ms claim. It relied on two exclusions within 
his policy  it stated he hadnt notified it of his claim as soon as was reasonably possible and 
he hadnt informed the police of the items lost, for which he was now seeking to claim.
Mr M was unhappy with AXAs approach to his outstanding claim. So, he complained about 
how it had dealt with his claim. But AXA didnt uphold his complaint. It didnt think it had 
acted unfairly and it maintained its repudiation decision.
Being dissatisfied with AXAs response to his complaint Mr M referred it our service. He 
wanted AXA to settle his outstanding claim and said he was unhappy it had appointed S to 
assist it. He thought this supported his argument that, in instructing S, AXA had accepted he 
had a valid claim.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint. But they didnt recommend upholding it. They 
werent persuaded AXA had acted unfairly in relying on the exclusion clauses within Mr Ms 
policy. And they didnt think its decision to instruct S had been unreasonable or that it 
indicated it had accepted that Mr M had a valid claim. So, they thought it didnt need to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. But Mr M disagreed with our investigators view of 
his complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
I can see Mr M and AXA have gone to some trouble to provide our service with some 
detailed points about this complaint. I want to assure them that Ive read everything theyve 
sent us. I hope theyll understand if I dont address every comment theyve made in this 
decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint. 
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr M. I recognise that having items stolen from 
ones property is bound to have been distressing. But my role is to assess whether I think 
AXA made a mistake in deciding Mr Ms claim, or treated him unfairly, such that it needs to 
now put things right.  
There are three parts to Mr Ms complaint, and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with 
them separately.
AXAs decision to appoint S to help it deal with Mr Ms claim
Mr M is unhappy with AXAs decision to appoint S to assist it in assessing his claim. But S is 
a recognised organisation that regularly assesses claims on behalf of insurers. And our 
service thinks its right for an insurer to instruct companies with expertise to assess a 
policyholders claim to assist it in determining whether a claim should be settled.
Here, I can understand why AXA would have concerns about whether to settle Mr Ms claim. 
I say this because the list of items stolen increased significantly after the incident was 
reported to the police and was, largely, poorly substantiated. Mr M also wasnt able to 
address the concerns that AXA had about the circumstances surrounding the theft. So, it 
had doubts about the extent of the loss hed reported. It also appears that Mr M wasnt able 
to satisfy AXA that hed held insurance prior to the inception of his policy. 
I dont think its unreasonable for AXA to want to clarify the circumstances surrounding Mr 
Ms claim further. Insurance companies have a responsibility to investigate claims to prevent 
fraud. And I can understand why, given AXAs concerns, it chose to appoint S to assist it in 
assessing this claim. It follows that Im persuaded that the decision to instruct S was 
reasonable  it was also in line with industry wide practice.
Mr M believes that AXA should have rejected his claim immediately. And he says, because it 
appointed S to attend his home address, this indicated that his claim had been accepted. But 
Im not persuaded by this argument. As Ive already explained, AXAs instruction of S was 
simply to obtain additional information in order to assist it in validating Mr Ms claim. So, 
when it appointed S, it didnt have the information it required to decide whether it should 
settle Mr Ms claim. 
Did Mr M report his claim to AXA in line with the terms of his policy?
Under the terms of Mr Ms policy, a policyholder must tell their insurer as soon as 
reasonably possible and provide full details.I recognise that Mr M was abroad at the time of the theft from his property. But Im not 
persuaded that he was prevented from contacting AXA while abroad to notify it hed been 
the subject of theft from his home. I say this because he informed AXA that he became 
aware of the incident in late December 2018.
Ive seen evidence showing that Mr M returned home on 11 January 2019. He says he 
couldnt have determined exactly what had been stolen until he returned to his property and I 
accept that. Hed need to be able to be home in order to fully assess the extent of his loss. 
So, I think the earliest time he could have provided a full list of the stolen items was shortly 
after 11 January 2019.
AXA has shown our service evidence showing that Mr M reported his claim to it on 5 June 
2019. But he disputes this and claims to have notified it much sooner. He believes this was 
shortly after he returned home in early 2019.
Mr M hasnt been able to provide proof of when he believes he reported his claim to AXA. 
But Ive listened to the call recordings AXAs provided our service, which are of when Mr M 
first notified it of his loss. These recordings are from early June 2019 and, taking this 
evidence and AXAs business records into consideration, Im satisfied that Mr M first 
reported his loss on 5 June 2019.
It isnt clear to me why Mr M couldnt have reported his loss to AXA sooner. Im aware of 
some difficult and sensitive matters involving his son. But Im not persuaded there are valid 
reasons that would have prevented him from reporting the theft of property within his home 
prior to June 2019  five months after he returned home.
The evidence Ive seen satisfies me that Mr M didnt deal with his claim or requests from 
AXA for additional clarification promptly or proactively. And, in not notifying AXA of his loss 
before June 2019, I dont think he reported his claim within a reasonable time period.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I dont think AXAs acted unfairly in stating that 
Mr M didnt tell it about the theft as soon as was reasonably possible  in line with the 
requirements of his policy. It follows that I dont think it acted unreasonably in repudiating his 
claim based on this exclusion clause.
Did Mr M report his loss to the police in line with the terms of his policy?
AXA has argued that Mr M didnt report his loss to the police in line with the terms of his 
policy. Those terms clearly outline that a policyholder must:
inform the police as soon as possible and obtain a crime reference number or loss report 
number as appropriate if the loss or damage is caused by theft or attempted theft, riot, civil 
commotion, strikes, labour disturbances, malicious acts, vandalism or loss of property.
Its not in dispute that the fact that a theft had taken place was reported to the police, albeit 
by members of Mr Ms family. This report was made on 26 November 2018. However, as I 
set out in the background to this complaint, the items that were reported to the police as 
stolen were a bicycle, keys and cash. This is confirmed by the police crime report.
As Ive already explained, by the time S attended Mr Ms property, the loss list had increased 
significantly to include additional items of value of which the police were unaware. Theres 
no evidence demonstrating that the loss list was updated with the police.
AXA has argued that Mr M ought to have contacted the police on his return to his home in 
order to update the loss list so that the items he had reported to it were reflected on the crime report. I think thats a reasonable argument as an insurer would expect the police to be 
provided with a full list of items that had been stolen. As our investigators explained, our 
service wouldnt expect an insurer to pay for items that arent itemised on a police report.
Mr M has stated that he requested a copy of the loss list following S visit and asked it to 
update the police with what had been stolen. However, I havent seen any evidence of either 
request from either Mr M or AXA. 
Mr M also contends that it was AXAs responsibility to update the police regarding the 
additional items stolen. But I dont agree. As our investigator explained it was Mr Ms 
responsibility to notify the police of the items that had been stolen. So, I cant fairly find that 
AXA should have done this on his behalf. And I havent seen any evidence of it telling Mr M 
it would.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M. But in the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im 
persuaded that AXA acted fairly in how it dealt with his theft claim. Theres no basis for me to 
say it should settle his claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman