DRN-1360027
 
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) following his wifes card details, on their joint account, becoming compromised. 
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr R and Nationwide so I wont repeat it in any great detail. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather, I dont think its relevant to the 
issues I need to deal with. However in summary it is this; 
Mr R and his wife have a joint credit card account with Nationwide. On one occasion when 
the card was used by Mr Rs wife, Nationwide received information that caused them to 
believe it had become compromised. That led to their security process being engaged and in 
turn it meant some transactions on the account did not appear when viewed online.
Mr R called Nationwide to complain and discuss the issue but his complaint wasnt logged 
for 16 days. Nationwide have accepted this was an error on their part and apologised and 
paid Mr R £100 to reflect that. Mr R also wanted Nationwide to place some restrictions on his 
wifes card but Nationwide said they couldnt do that. 
Mr R was unhappy with Nationwides final response and so brought his complaint to this 
service and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think 
Nationwide had acted unfairly towards Mr R. He did agree that there had been some failings 
in the level of service provided to Mr R as the complaint had not been logged when it was 
raised, but he thought that the amount of compensation paid to Mr R had been fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr R didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Services role is to try to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate. I aim to address all relevant points with a view to 
reaching a decision based on the evidence before me. Im not the industry regulator, and I 
dont have power to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they change their 
processes, or punish them. That is for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
I look at the issues raised and then consider all the available evidence in order to see if the 
business has acted fairly.  I take into account both sides views in considering whether 
Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr R.So, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. Having received information that Mr R and 
his wifes account had been compromised I think it is accepted that Nationwide were 
required to take action to protect the account. Nationwide decided to stop both cards and 
replace them with new cards. I cant say that was either unfair or unreasonable and it is in 
line with the terms and conditions which govern the account. 
I do take account of the fact that Mr Rs wife was in the USA at the time which meant he had 
to forward the card to her. That would add to the inconvenience and time for her to get her 
replacement card, but I think for security purposes it was correct to issue the card to her 
home address.
A problem however is that Nationwides security procedures mean that the most recent 
transactions on the account cannot be seen online until the monthly statement is generated. 
Nationwide say they do this to protect their customers accounts. Mr R had also asked that 
his wifes card be restricted, and hed also wanted to know the details about how the card 
had been compromised. Nationwide have said that this isnt something they are able to do or 
share, and for all of these problems, say they were acting in line with their own policy. As this 
is a policy decision for Nationwide, it is not something I can ask them to change, so I cant 
say they have been unfair here.
Nationwide have accepted that they didnt get things right in recording the complaint and 
because of that that they should pay compensation to Mr R. So, the decision for me is what 
the correct amount ought to be. 
Nationwide paid Mr R £100 and Ive thought about whether that is sufficient. Ive taken 
account of the extra frustration and inconvenience occasioned in having to send the card on 
to the USA. Ive considered the level of other awards this service has made for distress and 
inconvenience in similar cases, and putting all of the circumstances into the balance I think 
what Nationwide paid is fair and reasonable. And I think it is enough to put matters right.
So, although Mr R will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Nationwide 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman