DRN-4500582
The complaint
Miss and Mrs R complain about the amount AXIS Speciality Europe SE has offered to settle 
a claim they made on their landlord insurance policy.
Reference to Miss R or AXIS includes respective agents and representatives.
What happened
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise whats happened.
Miss R got in touch with AXIS when a boundary wall at her property collapsed during 
bad weather. She asked it to pay for the cost of removing the old wall and building a 
new wall, which came to around £5,600, plus the cost of temporary fencing.
AXIS noted Miss Rs contractor said the wall collapsed because of the way it was 
built and the weather. It also noted windspeeds recorded at the relevant time were up 
to 31mph and said this was less than the commonly accepted threshold of 55mph for 
storm. So, AXIS didnt think there was evidence to support a storm claim. Despite 
that, it offered to pay 50% toward the cost of a new wall, less the £250 policy excess, 
which came to around £1,600. It also offered to consider the fencing costs, if Miss R 
provided more information about them.
Miss R didnt think this was fair as it left her with a significant shortfall. And she noted 
neighbours claims for similar problems had been paid in full by other insurers.
Our investigator thought AXIS had treated Miss R fairly. She said there was no 
evidence to show there were storm conditions at the relevant time, so there was no 
obligation on AXIS under the insurance policy to accept the claim. She thought that 
meant AXIS offer was fair in the circumstances.
Miss R didnt agree and provided further comments. Our investigator wasnt 
persuaded to change her mind, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage to the building, including walls, caused by storm. For a 
storm claim to be paid in full, Id usually expect to see evidence of storm conditions at 
the relevant time  and evidence to show those storm conditions were likely the main 
cause of the damage.
The policy doesnt define what is meant by storm. So AXIS cant rely on the 55mph 
threshold it mentioned. In my view, storm means weather of severe or unusual 
intensity, such as very strong winds.
AXIS has provided weather data which says the maximum wind speed recorded at 
the relevant time was 31mph. That kind of wind is often described as breezy, so Im 
not satisfied its storm strength. Looking at weather data from a different provider, it 
says the maximum wind speed was 47mph. That weather station is more exposed 
than Miss Rs property, so it may have recorded speeds greater than that 
experienced at her property. This may reach the level considered to be the usual 
minimum for storm strength, but only just.
The only professional opinion Ive seen about the cause of damage to the wall is from 
Miss Rs contractor. They said the wall wasnt built well because it didnt have a 
middle pillar. Miss R seems to agree with this, as she said the wall was over 50 years 
old and had deteriorated since then. But she also said the bad weather experienced 
at the relevant time contributed to its collapse.
The photos show almost the entire wall collapsed in a single section, without clear 
signs of being torn or forcibly detached from the supporting pillars or remaining 
brickwork. This is more indicative of being inadequately bonded, rather than being 
pushed by the impact of the wind.
Overall, Im not persuaded the evidence shows there were storm strength winds at 
the relevant time. And even if I took the evidence of 47mph winds at face value and 
in isolation, that kind of wind generally causes minor structural damage, such as a 
dislodged roof tile or chimney  its unlikely to cause a wall to collapse. Also, it seems 
to be accepted that the wall wasnt built well and has deteriorated since, so Im not 
persuaded the wind was the primary cause of the damage. At most, I think it was a 
contributory factor, but not a significant one.
In these circumstances, I think it was fair for AXIS to make an offer towards the claim 
 but not to pay for it in full. Im satisfied its offer of around £1,600 amounted to a 
reasonable proportion of the cost of the wall, bearing in mind the wind wasnt a 
significant contributory factor.
AXIS also offered to consider the temporary fencing costs upon receipt of further 
information from Miss R. Im satisfied thats a reasonable approach, as its entitled to 
understand what Miss R paid for before it agrees how much, if any, of it to pay for. I 
know Miss R says she has obligations to her tenants, and I dont disagree thats the 
case. But the policy doesnt necessarily cover any cost incurred by a landlord when 
fulfilling their obligations to a tenant  so AXIS has the right to consider the costs 
against the policy terms and whats fair and reasonable.
Miss R has mentioned that other insurers have fully covered nearby walls damaged 
at a similar time. What other insurers may have chosen to do isnt relevant to this 
complaint. AXIS is entitled to consider the claim on its merits, based on its own 
policy. So I wont be taking into account the approach of other insurers here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R and Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
James NevilleOmbudsman