DRN-3370965
The complaint
Mr M complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) unfairly declined a 
claim for repairs on his motor breakdown policy.
What happened
Mr Ms car failed to start properly when he was visiting his family in August 2021. He called 
for assistance under his Parts and Garage Cover (also known as Breakdown Repair Cover). 
This policy sets out to provide roadside assistance, recovery and the costs of fixing 
breakdowns.
Acromas attended and the recovery technician diagnosed that Mr Ms car had probably 
suffered a head gasket failure. The recovery technician reported that Mr M had topped up 
the cooling system the day before but the fluid had been lost overnight. 
Cover included recovery from the roadside to the garage of Mr Ms choice so Acromas took 
Mr Ms car there. 
Mr M had bought his cover with Acromas 23 days before the breakdown happened so 
Acromas sent out an engineer to the garage to diagnose the cause of the breakdown. 
The engineer reported that the car had been suffering a longstanding coolant leak, which 
had caused overheating and consequent damage to the cylinder head. They said that the 
problem would have existed before the car was put on cover with Acromas so the repair 
claim would be declined as it was pre-existing.
Mr M was unhappy with Acromas declining the claim so he complained. Acromas said that it 
had a detailed report about the condition of the car stating that some damage to the coolant 
system was already there when Mr M bought the policy, so Acromas wasnt able to cover the 
claim under its policy.
As Mr M remained unhappy he brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked 
into it and said he didnt think Acromas had done anything wrong. He said Acromas provided 
a detailed report of what had happened to Mr Ms car which evidenced that the problem was 
occurring before Mr M bought the policy. Mr M told the investigator that he hadnt topped up 
the radiator the day before the breakdown, itd actually been two weeks before. He said his 
car had always been reliable.
Our investigator said he thought the engineers report was clear that the coolant system was 
an ongoing issue so he felt that even if Mr M hadnt noticed the problem, the failure of the 
system was just a matter of time and as such couldnt be covered under Acromass policy.
Mr M also sent a receipt from a garage saying that the car had been serviced one week 
before the breakdown happened. The receipt states Engine/cooling system  no problems 
which Mr M says shows that the fault must have been a sudden one, therefore something 
that Acromass policy should cover. Our investigator didnt agree, saying that Acromass 
report was much more comprehensive and so must have more weight than the garages 
inspection report.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view. He wants Acromas to pay for the repairs to his 
car. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Mr M feels strongly about what happened to his car and that he relies 
on it to get him to and from work, but Im afraid that Im not going to uphold his complaint and 
Ill explain why. 
Mr Ms Parts and Garage policy with Acromas is designed to provide cover for sudden failure 
of various parts of the car. Our investigator says in his view that the failure was not sudden, 
the cooling system had been failing for some time and as such the end result of that process 
was the damage that was caused. 
Its important that Mr M understands that the end result of a failure like this would be that his 
car would not start (or would run poorly), so what he would notice would be sudden, but it 
is the end result of a longer-term failure that this policy doesnt cover.
In its final response, Acromas repeats its engineers point that the eventual failure of the 
cooling system was a result of a long process of degradation that would have been in 
process since before the policy began. Acromas says in its policy wording that it will not 
cover:
1. Any costs for repairs following a Mechanical or Electrical Failure if:
a. The faults existed prior to the purchase of this cover
Mr Ms car broke down 23 days from the inception of the policy and Acromas sent an 
engineer to determine what had happened. The engineer was working on behalf of Acromas 
but comes from an independent company. The report provided is very comprehensive and 
details where on Mr Ms car they saw evidence of the failure. Mr M makes the point that hed 
had the car serviced only a week before the breakdown and I can see from his evidence 
theres a receipt from the same garage his car was towed to showing that the service took 
place. 
As the engineers report is very comprehensive and focuses on exactly the area in question, 
I must give more importance to it than a general report from a garage. For example, a 
garage tasked with a service (principally an oil change here) might not run the engine to its 
full operating temperature. So that means the garage may not have run it for long enough to 
discover any weaknesses. It may have visually checked the cooling system, but it doesnt 
mean that the cooling system wasnt already faulty and in the process of failing.
Because Acromas have provided a report which details how it says the cooling system failed 
I think its fair that it can rely on the exclusion shown above. So it follows that I think Acromas 
have acted fairly and reasonably in rejecting Mr Ms claim as the fault existed before he took 
the policy out.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman