DRN-4132089
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that The Co-operative Bank Plc sent him marketing communications when 
he had opted out of receiving marketing correspondence from them.
What happened
Mr S received marketing messages from Co-op as notifications on his mobile banking app 
(push notifications). Mr S wasnt happy about this because hed opted out of receiving 
marketing correspondence from Co-op. So, he raised a complaint. 
Co-op responded to Mr S and explained that he could change the settings on his mobile 
phone so that he didnt receive any push notifications from them. Mr S wasnt satisfied with 
Co-ops response, in part because he wanted to receive push notifications that might be 
important to him, such as potential fraud alerts. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Co-op had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Mr S feels that some of the push notifications hes received from Co-op have been marketing 
in nature. Unfortunately, Mr S hasnt been able to provide copies or examples of these 
notices. And I dont feel that the push notifications that Co-op have provided to this service 
and confirmed were sent to Mr M are examples of marketing.
Additionally, Co-op have explained that theyve sent the push notifications about which Mr S 
complains to their mobile app users in general, and not specifically to Mr S, and that this is in 
accordance with their process and policy regarding push notifications. And given that this 
service isnt a regulatory body, it isnt for me to instruct Co-op to change their process or 
policy as Mr S would like.
What is within my remit is to decide whether I feel Co-op have acted fairly towards Mr S 
here. When considering this point, Ive noted that Co-op have given what I feel is a 
reasonable solution to Mr S  to change his mobile phone settings so as to opt out of 
receiving all push notifications from Co-op  which he can implement, and which will stop 
him receiving the push notifications from them.
Mr S has explained that he doesnt want to stop receiving all push notifications from Co-op, 
but only stop receiving the notifications he isnt happy with. But Co-op dont offer a facility to 
allow account holders to tailor the types of push notifications they receive, and nor are they 
obliged to. And, as previously explained, it isnt within the remit of this service to consider 
instructing Co-op to offer such a facility.
Mr S has explained that hes concerned that if he stops all push notifications from Co-op that 
he might not receive important notifications, such as potential fraud alerts. But Co-op can 
contact Mr S about instances of potential fraud by a variety of channels, including by text 
message, email, or phone call. And if Mr S wants to be able to receive potential fraud alerts 
by push notification specifically, he can only do so by continuing to receive the full suite of 
push notifications that Co-op send. And I dont feel that this is unreasonable or unfair. 
Finally, Mr S feels that by sending him marketing push notifications when hes specifically 
opted out of receiving marketing correspondence from them, Co-op are in breach of data 
protection legislation. But it isnt for this service to declare whether a breach of data 
protection legislation has occurred or not  that would be for Information Commissioners 
Office, the relevant regulatory body in this instance, to decide. Rather, as explained, my 
remit here is decide whether I feel Co-ops actions here are fair or unfair. 
Ultimately, I dont feel Co-op have acted unfairly towards Mr S as he contends. And it follows 
from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Co-op to take any action. This 
is because I dont feel that it has been demonstrated that Mr S has received marketing push 
notifications from Co-op, and because Im satisfied that Co-op have provided Mr S with a 
reasonable solution to enable him to stop receiving push notifications from them.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman