DRN-3384631
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the advice she received from Britannic Assurance Plc (Britannic) in 
1992 to transfer from her Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) into a Personal Pension 
Plan (PPP). She says the advice was unsuitable and that when this was reviewed, she 
wasnt appropriately compensated. 
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) later acquired Britannic. For ease of reading, Ill 
only refer to Phoenix in my decision below.
Mrs A is represented in this matter by a claims management company (the representative).
What happened
In 1992 Mrs A received advice from Phoenix to transfer her OPS into a PPP. She accepted
the advice and later transferred.
In 1997, as part of the industry wide Pension Review, Phoenix invited Mrs A to have the
advice she received reviewed. Mrs A accepted the invite and following a review in 1998, 
Phoenix wrote to her with an offer to put matters right. To summarise, it said:
Its review showed thered been no financial loss sustained by Mrs A transferring out 
of her OPS in 1992. However, it had reviewed what her position wouldve been if 
shed transferred her benefits to the scheme which took over her OPS, Scheme 2, 
as this had been an option available at the time. Having done so, it determined that 
Mrs A would likely be worse off by not having transferred to Scheme 2.
Its calculations showed a loss of £1,723.73, so the amount it offered to pay into     
Mrs As PPP would be no less than 3.9% of the value of her fund.
The amount of redress paid aimed to make good the financial loss it believed Mrs A 
could suffer in retirement.
Having accepted Phoenixs offer, Mrs As PPP was enhanced accordingly.
Mrs As representative complained to Phoenix on her behalf in November 2021. To 
summarise, it said:
Mrs A was seeking redress in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
more recent guidance  referred to as FG17/9  for firms for calculating redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit OPS transfers.
The review carried out by Phoenix in 1998 wasnt in accordance with the regulatory 
standards or requirements applicable at the time. So, FG17/9 should be used to 
determine appropriate redress.
Failures identified in Phoenixs 1998 review calculations were that: it was unclear 
what retirement age had been used; a fund management charge assumption of 1% 
was used but there was no evidence this was plausible; and, applicable 1993 and 
1995 discretionary increases didnt appear to have been incorporated into the 
calculation.
Phoenix responded and didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mrs As plan had been reviewed 
in line with regulatory guidance at the time and that shed been compensated accordingly. It 
explained that it wasnt obligated to review the transfer again and reminded Mrs A that shed 
accepted its compensation offer in full and final settlement of the matter. Regarding the 
specific failures Mrs As representative identified, it confirmed the following:
Its 1998 redress offer letter to Mrs A confirmed that age 60 had been used as the 
retirement age for its calculation.
The fund management charge used in the calculation was the fund management 
charge for Mrs As PPP.
The 1993 and 1995 discretionary increases applied to pension in payment increases 
from Mrs As original OPS scheme. This was provided for in the original loss 
calculation and resulted in a no loss outcome. The subsequent loss calculation was 
based on the alternative option Mrs A had to transfer to Scheme 2 in 1992. The 
resulting redress amount was based on the new schemes benefit provisions, which 
didnt include the discretionary increases provided by Mrs As original OPS scheme.
Unhappy with Phoenixs response, Mrs As representative referred her complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators considered the matter and concluded that as there was nothing to 
indicate Phoenix hadnt carried out the review correctly, he didnt think it needed to do 
anything further. 
Mrs As representative disagreed, saying Phoenix hadnt carried out the review according to 
the applicable regulatory requirements and retained the full review file so it could be 
independently checked if necessary.
As no agreement could be reached, Mrs As complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded there are grounds on which Phoenix ought to be required 
to revisit the Pension Review redress calculations it carried out in 1998.
The advice in 1992
In its original complaint to Phoenix, Mrs As representative set out various reasons for why it 
considered the 1992 advice inappropriate. Ive noted the points made in respect of this 
however, I dont consider them material to my determination of this complaint. I say this 
because Phoenix has already carried out a review of the advice and completed a loss 
calculation. And in doing so, it has essentially already conceded the issue regarding 
suitability. With this in mind, I consider the issue for me to determine here to be whether 
Phoenix reviewed the advice Mrs A received to transfer in accordance with the regulators 
guidance and whether it now needs to do anything else to put things right.
The Pension Review and the regulators updated guidance for reviewing pension transfers
The pension review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was implemented to rectify
widespread mis-selling and put customers, as much as possible, back into the position they
wouldve been in had they not received inappropriate advice.The methodology for putting things right was set by the regulator of the time, the Securities 
and Investment Board (SIB). The financial business firstly had to determine whether it was 
possible for the customer to be reinstated into their previous defined benefit scheme. If that 
wasnt possible, the financial business needed to put the consumer back into the position 
they would have been in by way of a lump sum pension contribution. 
Several assumptions, based on what the regulator thought were fair at the time, were used 
in the redress calculations  including the expected future growth rate of the pension funds 
to produce the required benefits at retirement. Most pension reviews were done between 
1994 and 2003 and the assumptions were revised regularly during that time.
In general, the assumptions to be used for the calculation were those relevant to the time
that the calculation was done, and compensation paid. This included where mistakes were
discovered in the original calculations  a re-calculation would usually be done using the
same assumptions that applied at the date of the original calculation.
Unfortunately, in many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt
materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, have had an impact on the benefits
provided by personal pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid following
the review plus the existing value of the pension would be high enough to match the
OPS at retirement date, this hasnt been the case for many consumers.
But that alone isnt a reason to redo the pension review and recalculate compensation. The
review was designed to provide finality to both parties and draw a line under the matter 
businesses could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that it wouldnt be liable for future
compensation and consumers could be re-assured that the mis-selling had been recognised
and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be reasonable assumptions
without the need to revisit the matter many years later. Because of this, the pension review 
was a very tightly regulated process. It required participating pension providers to undertake 
very clearly defined tasks. A sample of calculations would have been checked, both by the 
businesses and the regulator, with any systemic problems identified and corrected. There 
were regular audits by the regulator to ensure the reviews were being undertaken correctly.
In 2017 the FCA issued new guidance  FG17/9. This was designed for complaints upheld 
about OPS transfers received after 3 August 2016 or for complaints received before this date 
that hadnt been settled in full and final settlement already.
It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the pension review period would be
excluded from the updated guidance. But after the consultation period, FG17/9 said some
cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant pension
transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where the
particular circumstances of the case were not addressed by those standards.
Concerns about Phoenixs redress calculations
Phoenix has provided evidence of the calculations it carried out in 1998, which it says were 
carried out in line with the regulators requirements.
Mrs As representative says that failures in Phoenixs calculations relate to a lack of clarity 
around the retirement age it used, the plausibility of the assumption it made about Mrs As 
fund management charge, and it not including applicable discretionary increases. It adds 
that Phoenix hasnt retained the full review file so its calculations could be independently 
checked if necessary.Based on what Ive seen, theres nothing which suggests Phoenix failed to make correct 
provisions in its calculation for retirement age, the fund management charge and 
discretionary increases. 
Phoenixs 1998 redress offer letter clearly stated that a retirement age of 60 had been used 
for its calculations. This is also reflected in documents in Phoenixs review file. Ive not found 
anything which indicates that the retirement age used was incorrect or that it wasnt shared 
with Mrs A, such that she couldnt query it if she thought it was wrong at the time.
Although Mrs As representative says Phoenix made implausible assumptions about the fund 
management charge in its calculations, Ive seen nothing to support this. The fund 
management charge Phoenix used for the calculation was 1% and reflective of the actual 
charge applicable to Mrs As PPP. Again, this is reflected in Phoenixs review file.
With regards to the 1993 and 1995 discretionary increases Mrs As representative claims 
Phoenix didnt take into account as part of its loss calculations, from what Ive seen, they 
were. However, despite considering the discretionary increases applicable if Mrs A had 
remained in her original OPS, the calculations didnt show that thered been any loss. The 
discretionary increases werent relevant to the loss assessment Phoenix carried out on the 
basis that Mrs A transferred to Scheme 2, as they didnt form part of the schemes benefit 
provisions. Nevertheless, a loss was identified, and redress was paid to Mrs A. The inclusion 
of discretionary increases is, where applicable further evidenced in Phoenixs review file.
Ive considered Mrs As representatives concern about Phoenix not retaining its full review 
file as it was required to do so. However, having looked at the review file myself, its not clear 
to me what Mrs As representative believes is missing. It hasnt specified what else it thinks 
Phoenix shouldve retained. The 76-page file Ive seen appears comprehensive, including 
Phoenixs correspondence with Mrs A about the review, the review calculations, 
assumptions used, calculation checks, and information acquired by Phoenix from Mrs As 
OPS and Scheme 2. Mrs A ultimately accepted Phoenixs redress offer in full and final 
settlement and seemingly didnt raise any issues with Phoenixs calculations or the 
assumptions it made at the time.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I accept that its possible Phoenix hasnt retained all 
documentation from the time of the review. But this doesnt mean it didnt carry out the 
review in line with the guidance at the time. I think the available evidence is sufficient to
show that it did. I cant use hindsight and say now, on reflection, that the assumptions are so 
wrong that the calculation should be redone.
In the absence of any evidence from Mrs A and her representative that incorrect details or 
assumptions were used, I think her pension transfer advice was reviewed and compensation 
was calculated in line with the regulators guidance and requirements at the time. I also 
havent seen anything which leads me to conclude Phoenix should carry out a new 
calculation using the FG17/9 guidance. So, it follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
For these reasons, Im not asking Phoenix to do anything further here, though I realise this
isnt the answer Mrs A hoped for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman