DRN-4406012
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Financial Services Limited unfairly closed his credit card 
accounts and left searches on his credit file. Hed like these searches removed and 
compensation.
What happened
Mr M had a credit card account with Creation. This account offered the opportunity to earn 
reward points that could then be traded for hotel stays or experiences. In September 2021 
Creation wrote to Mr M to let him know theyd be closing his account in December 2021. 
They also said he could no longer earn reward points, and those accumulated so far would 
not be credited to the reward account. He asked them if he could apply for another credit 
card and was told it was possible but subject to checks.
After Mr M completed his application Creation wrote to him to confirm the account was set 
up, and a card was being sent to him. However, a few days later they wrote again to say that 
they had retracted the decision. They said to destroy any card and that the credit search 
created as part of that application would be removed from his credit file.
Mr M complained, saying he felt the reasons for closing his account were based on where he 
had used his card, and so were discriminatory. He was also unhappy the search hadnt been 
removed from his credit file. Creation responded to say they had closed his account in line 
with the terms.
Dissatisfied with this answer Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Before one of our 
investigators could look into the case Creation offered to resolve it by refunding Mr M his 
reward points. However, he declined this, as it didnt take in to account the other issues he 
raised.
Our investigator looked into what happened. Creation confirmed they had removed the 
second credit card account from the credit file, but not the search. On review our investigator 
thought this should be enough to resolve the complaint. They were satisfied that Creation 
had closed Mr Ms credit card accounts in line with the terms. They thought there was a 
miscommunication and that Creation referred to removing the account from the credit file, 
and that they wouldnt expect searches to be removed. They felt the crediting of the points 
was a fair way to resolve the complaint.
This was accepted by Creation, but Mr M disagreed. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creations terms allow them to close an account for any reasonable reason, so long as they 
provide the required notice. For Mr Ms reward account, I can see that the notice was sent, 
and gave sufficient warning. I can also see Mr M discussed applying for the second card 
before the expiry of the notice, so this tells me this notice was received and understood.
There isnt any specific obligation on Creation to tell Mr M the reasons theyve closed his 
account  and theyve declined to do so here. This isnt unreasonable in itself  although it 
has meant that Mr M feels he has been discriminated against. Creation have supplied their 
reasoning to our service, and Im satisfied that this can be treated in confidence, as our rules 
allow. 
Its not my role to say whether the closure has breached the legislation in the UK that deals 
with discrimination  the Equalities Act 2010  as this is a decision reserved for the courts. 
Im satisfied the reasons given for closing the account are reasonable. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest the decision was down to any of Mr Ms protected characteristics, rather it was a 
legitimate commercial decision they were entitled to make. On that basis, I dont see they 
have been unfair to him. Likewise, Im satisfied the closure of the second card so soon after 
it was opened was in line with the terms of the account. 
Creation could have been more helpful when Mr M asked if he could open a different 
account. It seems to be accepted that he wasnt told it definitely would be successful. But its 
also clear from how soon after Creation decided to close the account, this outcome perhaps 
could have been anticipated.
Likewise, the letter Mr M has sent us from Creation says the credit search will be removed 
from his credit file. But I accept that Creation intended only to remove the account, rather 
than the record of the search. Removing the account is fair, as it was never used. But 
usually, I wouldnt expect a business to remove factual information from a credit file. Theres 
clearly been some an expectation set, that hasnt been fulfilled.
Ive considered whether this should be removed, but Im not persuaded it should. If a 
customer applies for an account, and agrees to credit searches in the process, I would, only 
expect this type of information to be removed if the business performing the searches 
provided incorrect information to credit reference agencies. Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
was the case here. A search was carried out because Mr M applied for an account. And 
Creation have an obligation to report accurate information. Im satisfied that is what has 
happened here.
As such, Im not expecting Creation to remove the search from the credit file. And I dont see 
that the loss of expectation is such that compensation should be paid. With that in mind I see 
Creations offer to pay Mr M the accrued reward points as a fair resolution to the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Limited should credit Mr Ms reward 
account with the accumulated points.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman