DRN-2836349
The complaint
Mrs N has complained about Lowell Portfolio I Ltd, saying they harassed her for 
unenforceable debts and falsely reported things on her credit file.
What happened
This complaint regards a consumer credit account that was bought by Lowell in 2016.
For some years, Mrs N made payments toward the debt through a debt management 
company. In April 2020, she explained to Lowell that, because of the effects of the 
pandemic, she was no longer able to make the payments. Lowell agreed to put the account 
on hold. However, they didnt take account of this in their credit file reporting, so on Mrs Ns 
file it was recorded that she was missing her payments.
In October 2020, Mrs N asked Lowell for a copy of the credit agreement, arguing that without 
this the debt was unenforceable and so Lowell should not have been taking payments for it. 
She also complained about how the debt had been recorded on her credit file. And she says 
Lowell were harassing her and their contact was menacing.
Lowell disagreed that theyd harassed Mrs N, saying theyd honoured her repayment plans 
and had put things on hold while she was facing difficulties. Lowell accepted they shouldnt 
have recorded missed payments while the account was on hold. They apologised and, as 
compensation, wrote off the debt in full  which at the time was worth around £1,500.
Our investigator looked into things independently. They explained that only a court could 
decide whether the debt was enforceable  but even if it wasnt, the debt still existed and so 
it was fair for Lowell to ask for payments. They said Lowell had treated Mrs N appropriately 
and they couldnt see where theyd harassed her. They agreed Lowell should not have 
recorded missed payments while the account was on hold, but felt that writing the debt off 
was more than fair compensation.
Mrs N didnt agree. She felt Lowell had acted deplorably in recording missed payments. She 
asked for an ombudsman to review the case afresh, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain first that only a court can decide whether a debt is legally enforceable or not 
 thats not something I have the power to determine. With that said, even if this account had 
not been enforceable, that would only mean that Lowell couldnt take certain legal action  
the debt would still exist and Lowell were still allowed to ask Mrs N to repay it.
There does not appear to be any dispute that this was Mrs Ns genuine account, and so that 
this was a debt she genuinely owed. So whether it was enforceable or not, I dont think 
Lowell did anything wrong by asking for payments or accepting payments here.
Ive looked at Lowells communication with Mrs N, and I cant see that theyve corresponded 
with her excessively or unreasonably. For example, they were happy to work together with 
Mrs Ns debt management company, they wanted to make sure she made repayments that 
were affordable and realistic for her, and they said they could look at other options if she was 
struggling. And they put the account on hold for significant periods in light of Mrs Ns change 
in circumstances or to give her more time to deal with things. So I cant see that Lowell acted 
inappropriately there.
Both sides accept that Lowell did get things wrong by reporting the account as being behind 
on payments, when it was actually on hold in light of Mrs Ns situation. I know that Mrs N 
feels strongly about what happened, and I understand where shes coming from. Ive thought 
very carefully about this point, taking into account all the stress and inconvenience this 
involved for Mrs N.
When a business gets something wrong, we often tell them to compensate their customer  
to acknowledge their mistake and the impact it had. In terms of the amount of compensation, 
its worth bearing in mind that were not here to fine or punish businesses.
To resolve things here, Lowell closed Mrs Ns account  writing off nearly £1,500 of debt for 
her. They agreed to not chase her or take payments for the debt anymore, and they 
removed it from her credit file. Ultimately, this is a larger value of compensation that what 
I would have awarded. So while I accept that Mrs N feels most aggrieved about what 
happened, I cannot fairly tell Lowell to do anything further, as I think theyve already done 
enough to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman