DRN-2628606
The complaint
Mr B, as administrator of the late Ms S estate, has complained about how TSB Bank plc has 
dealt with the late Ms S mortgage account since she died in January 2019.
What happened
In January 2021 I issued a decision setting out what parts of this complaint we can consider. 
I said:
We cant look at every complaint thats referred to us. We can only consider a complaint 
if it falls within certain criteria laid down in our case-handling rules, which are found in the
Dispute Resolution section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook (available 
online). The rules say we can only look at complaints brought by or on behalf of an 
eligible complainant.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer, which was the late Ms S 
in this case. When she died the right to complain passed to her estate. But I must explain 
that, although Mr B is representing the estate, he (personally) wasnt TSBs customer. 
Mr Bs role is to bring the complaint on behalf of the estate, in the same way that a person 
might instruct a solicitor or other professional to represent them in a complaint.
We dont have the power to look at a complaint from Mr B in his personal capacity or look 
at how this matter has affected him personally. In saying this I understand the points hes 
made and its clear that this matter has been emotionally difficult and frustrating for him to 
deal with, but thats just not something weve got the power to consider. Despite Mr Bs 
belief to the contrary, this isnt something we have any discretion over; we simply dont 
have the power to consider this complaint by way of reference to Mr B personally.
This means we cant consider Mr Bs complaint about what happened with the cheque he
paid to the mortgage (including protecting his personal data) as that is about him 
personally and hes not TSBs customer in this matter under our rules. We cant consider 
any anger, stress, frustration and pain hes been caused, because those are all things 
that would have affected Mr B personally.
We also cant consider anything that happened after the complaint was referred to us in
July 2019 as our rules only allow us to deal with complaints that have been raised with 
the business, and it has had a chance to respond to. If the estate of the late Ms S wants 
to raise any issues that happened after matters were referred to us, then itll need to do 
so as a new complaint directly with TSB. This complaint will only deal with the time period 
between 29 January 2019 and 21 July 2019 (as long as those matters were raised with 
TSB at the time).
Having considered all the submissions and our rules, the only thing we can deal with here 
is whether TSB did anything wrong that caused a financial loss or inconvenience to the 
estate (over and above what would normally be expected when undertaking an 
administrative role like this) between 29 January 2019 and 21 July 2019.
Our investigator hadnt upheld the complaint, and as Mr B hadnt agreed with that stance the 
case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Until it received the Letter of Administration on 19 June 2019 TSB did nothing wrong in 
writing to the addresses it had for the late Ms S; that is the property address and her 
correspondence address.
The estate of Ms S has now said that shed moved out of her residential address (which Ill 
call 3B) in 2016, moved into the property that was mortgaged to TSB (which Ill call 27H) and 
rented out 3B. But she shouldnt have done that. This was a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage and 
under the rules of that the property 27H had to be tenanted, not lived in by Ms S. Also, by 
not telling TSB that shed done that it meant TSB was still writing to her at 3B as that is 
where it believed she was living. This meant, upon her death, TSB was writing to both 3B (as 
the last known residential address for Ms S) and 27H (as that was the mortgaged property). 
Thats entirely normal and I cant blame TSB for that. 
Just because other companies dealt with things differently doesnt mean TSB was wrong in 
how it acted. It had no authorisation to write to Mr B at his address until the Letter of 
Administration was provided which gave him the power to act for the estate. And it did 
nothing wrong in writing to both 3B and 27H about this BTL mortgage account.
Having considered everything, I cant uphold any part of this complaint that relates to where 
letters were sent before 19 June 2019, and I cant hold TSB liable for the costs incurred by 
Mr B in his time and travel to obtain those letters.
That said, TSB should have only written to Mr B at his address once it received the Letter of 
Administration on 19 June 2019. For the time period Im able to consider here  which is 
from 19 June until 21 July 2019  I can only see one letter that was issued by TSB, and that 
was a redemption statement on 18 July 2019.
Whilst that letter does fall within the dates Ive stated, I can see Mr B made a complaint to 
TSB about it on 28 July 2019, requesting £104.50 compensation for his time and travel 
expenses to collect it from 3B.  As the estate of Ms S referred this complaint to us on 21 July 
2019, we cant consider anything relating to a complaint made after that date, so for that 
reason I cant consider the complaint about the redemption statement of 18 July even though 
it falls within the dates stated. Thats because the estate of Ms S raised it as a complaint with 
TSB after this complaint had been referred to us.
Having considered everything, I cant uphold any part of this complaint that relates to where 
letters were sent between 19 June and 21 July 2019 as the only one that appears to have 
been sent to 3B has been complained about separately after the date of referral to us so 
cant fall under this complaint with our service.
Mr B has said:
If my personal feelings don't count and we deal with this on a purely business footing 
then professional admin of an estate is £200 per hour at least and their mistakes have 
involved me in many hours of unnecessary travel, letter writing, phone calls with all the 
record keeping and time for thinking involved, including complaining to the ombudsman 
when it all got too much.Whilst I understand Mr Bs point, I cant award him the equivalent of professional costs for 
dealing with the estate as he wasnt carrying that role out on a professional basis, so the 
costs a professional would have charged are entirely moot. Theres always going to be 
inconvenience in dealing with an estate, especially one as complex as this, and it will be 
understandably difficult when you are the sole beneficiary and dealing with your personal 
loss as well.
Having considered everything Im satisfied that for the period I can consider here the estate 
of Ms S wasnt caused an undue level of inconvenience by TSB (over and above what Id 
normally expect when a complex estate is being administered) such that it would reach the 
threshold that Id consider a payment of compensation is warranted.
All that said, I understand TSB would like to make a further offer to the estate of Ms S. Ive 
not assessed what that offer is for, or whether it is fair, as I cant do that here as part of this 
complaint. So I leave it to the estate of Ms S to contact TSB directly about that; if asked, our 
investigator can provide the details we do know. If the estate of Ms S is unhappy with the 
outcome once its discussed that with TSB, then it can refer that to us as a new complaint if it 
wants. But that will be subject to all our usual rules on time limits and the fact the 
complainant is the estate of Ms S (not Mr B personally).
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask the estate of Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman