DRN-3141002
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as F has complained that AXIS Specialty Europe SE (AXIS) 
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr H, a director of F, has brought the complaint on Fs behalf. 
What happened
F held a business protection insurance policy with AXIS. F claimed on its policy after it was 
impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
AXIS turned down Fs claim. They said that while the policy covered interruption to Fs 
business due to an occurrence of Covid-19 at the Fs premises, they thought F had closed 
due to the Government Regulations. 
F complained to AXIS about both the declinature of the claim and the time they had taken to 
reach a decision. AXIS maintained that they had made the correct decision.
Unhappy with AXISs response, F brought its complaint to our service. It referred to the High 
Court and Supreme Court judgments in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business 
Interruption Insurance test case as reasons why its claim should be paid. F said the 
prevalence of Covid-19 in the local area to its business meant there was most likely a case 
at its premises. 
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think F had shown there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at its premises.
F disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. F said the test case had considered a 
similar term to that within its policy and had found it provided cover. F also said that the 
judgment found that identifying cases in the local area was sufficient to demonstrate that 
there had been a case of Covid-19 at the premises. F added that a number of its customers 
had symptoms of Covid-19.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
F has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all, Im not going to 
address them all in this decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues to this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Fs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AXIS have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Fs claim.
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy provides cover:
In the event of Damage to the Property used by the Insured for the purposes of 
the Business carried on by the Insured at the Premises during the Period of 
Insurance from the Insured Perils under Section 1
a. resulting in interruption or interference with the Business or
The policy defines damage as Loss destruction of or damage to the Property insured.
For cover to apply under the core business interruption section, Fs business interruption 
would need to be as a result of loss, destruction or damage to property used by F. I dont 
think this would provide cover for Fs claim, because I dont think the interruption to Fs 
business was as a result of damage.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or
altered state to Fs property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of
potential damage.
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in Fs premises.
However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings doesnt
recommend any cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive amount of
SARS-CoV-2 on Fs property. And the presence of any particular virus doesnt automatically
amount to damage. So, Fs claim isnt covered under this section of the policy. 
Denial of access
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. This extension covers 
business interruption in consequence of:
Damage from the Insured Perils to property within a one-mile radius of the 
Premises which shall prevent or hinder the use of or access to the Insured's 
Premises whether or not there has been Damage to the Premises or Property 
of the Insured
For this to provide cover for Fs claim, the interruption to its business would need to be in 
consequence of damage to property within a one mile radius of Fs premises which hindered 
the use of or access to Fs premises. 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that Covid-19 caused damage to property within one 
mile of Fs premises which hindered or prevented the use of, or access to, Fs premises. 
Therefore, this doesnt cover Fs claim. Premises closure or restrictions
The relevant part of this extension covers loss resulting from business interruption or 
insurance in consequence of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the 
approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a 
Notifiable Human Disease occurring at the Premises
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease as defined by the policy. So, for this extension to 
provide cover for Fs claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to 
be as a result of a case of Covid-19 occurring at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden of 
proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
F said that a number of its customers had symptoms of Covid-19. However, I only have Fs 
testimony to support that and in this particular case that isnt enough for me to fairly 
conclude that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at its premises. 
F has referred to the judgments in the FCA test case. I appreciate that the wording in Fs 
policy is similar to one which was considered in the test case. However, the clause F has 
referred to in the test case required the disease to be at the premises or within a 25 mile 
radius, whereas Fs policy required the disease to occur at the premises. So, I think the 
terms refer to a different geographical area. 
Given the difference in the wording of the clause, I dont think the reasoning F is looking to 
rely on applies and I think F still has to demonstrate that there was most likely a case of 
Covid-19 at its business premises, rather than in the surrounding area. I have to bear in 
mind that most people at that time didnt have Covid-19, so I dont think the general 
prevalence of Covid-19 in the local area is sufficient for me to fairly conclude that there was 
most likely a case of Covid-19 at Fs premises. 
Delays
F said it took 56 days for AXIS to reach a decision on its claim. While I can appreciate this 
was frustrating for Mr H as Fs director, F is the eligible complaint, which means I can only 
consider the impact on F as a limited company and not on its directors. Im not persuaded 
that any delay in reaching a decision on the claim caused F a loss which would warrant an 
award or compensation for inconvenience, in this particular case, given that the claim was 
fairly declined. 
I recognise this isnt the answer F was hoping for but, having considered everything very 
carefully, I cant fairly require AXIS to pay Fs claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman