DRN-3347214
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy at the charges that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) applied to 
his bank account and lack of support received from it when he says he was vulnerable and 
in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr W complained to NatWest that the overdraft charges applied to his account were unfair 
and excessive when he was in financial difficulty. NatWest says that all charges were 
applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the account and that it had already 
refunded a significant amount in charges.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws concerns and reached the conclusion NatWest 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated him unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mr W disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr W raised his complaint in April 2021 in relation to charges applied to his overdraft. Six 
years before he raised his complaint is April 2015. And as the charges for use of the 
overdraft wouldve been notified to Mr W at the time they were being applied, I think he 
ought to have known enough to decide whether they were unfair or causing financial 
difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when Mr W ought to be reasonably aware he 
had reason to complaint provides him with a longer period than the six year rule. 
I can still look into Mr Ws complaint about overdraft charges outside this time if Im satisfied 
the failure to complain earlier was due to exceptional circumstances. Mr W has told us that 
over the years he has suffered severely with mental health issues and that his father passed 
away in 2015 which exacerbated these issues. 
I sympathise with Mr W and I accept that he has had a lot to cope with over the years and is 
still suffering. But in coming to my decision I have to be fair to both Mr W and NatWest and 
what I have to decide is whether I think the circumstances outlined by Mr W wouldve 
prevented him from referring his complaint earlier had he chosen to do so.
I have thought carefully about everything he has told us about his circumstances during
the relevant period. But some of the charges he is complaining about were applied back in 
2013 and there was a two year between this and the sad loss of his father that he could 
have made a complaint. 
I understand why making a complaint may not have been a priority for Mr W. But I think he 
still could have made a complaint about the charges incurred between 2011 and 2015 within 
the time limits, especially as it only takes an email or telephone call to do so.
And as such I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply so I am unable to look at 
charges applied before April 2015. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can tell by the amount of correspondence and information Mr W has provided how strongly 
he feels about his complaint and how invested he is. And I hope Mr W wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal, 
dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint  that NatWest unfairly applied charges when Mr W was vulnerable and suffering 
from financial difficulty. Our rules allow me to do that. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Mr W has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But before I 
go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts NatWest charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at NatWests various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr W if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ws account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr W was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Mr W fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that NatWest did treat Mr W unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mr Ws statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
NatWest ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it 
being notified of this in April 2021 when he raised his complaint. 
Mr W had a £50 overdraft limit and I accept that Mr W regularly used his overdraft and a few 
occasions went over this limit, but I can see over the years that almost every month he was 
able to bring his account back into credit before once again utilising the overdraft facility.  
Mr W has told us that some of the credits coming into the account was money coming from 
someone else to be spent on the care of his partners children. But without a detailed 
description on the bank statements what this money was for or any evidence that NatWest 
was aware of this  I cant say NatWest ought to have realised Mr W was struggling financially 
and that there is anything which ought to have alerted NatWest to any potential financial 
difficulty. 
And in these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr Ws account was being 
used and I dont think NatWest treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr W. But I hope he understands the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman