DRN-2377329
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that the staff at a Halifax branch of the Bank of Scotland Plc trading 
as Halifax (Halifax) were rude to her. 
What happened
Mrs E received a cheque in connection with a refund of PPI premium. She didnt have a 
bank account and called the PPI department of Halifax. They told her she could visit a 
Halifax branch where it could be cashed. She visited a branch of the Halifax on 27 August 
2020.  They told her she had to open an account and pay the cheque into it. The discussion 
took place outside the branch. At the time, she was also speaking to the PPI department of 
Halifax to try and resolve how to cash the cheque.
Mrs E complained that the staff and manager were rude to her and said that she swore at 
them. She said she didnt swear.
Halifax responded to Mrs Es complaint on 30 August 2020 and 22 September 2020. They 
did not uphold Mrs Es complaint. They said that they believed that she had used abusive 
and threatening language.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. They listened to all the calls 
between Mrs E and Halifax. This included the call to the PPI department of Halifax which 
also caught some of the conversation at the branch. He said that he hadnt heard her use 
swear words. But he also said that in his view, Mrs E didnt raise her voice during the 
incident in question and in all of the calls he had listened to. Mrs E hadnt complained about 
the bad advice given to her about being able to cash the cheque at a branch. But she said 
shed been offered £50 compensation by Halifax for that.
Mrs E disagreed with the investigator and so this complaint has been forwarded to an 
ombudsman to decide upon.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E says the PPI department told her that she could cash her cheque at a Halifax branch. 
Given Mrs E then went to the branch with the cheque, I have no reason to doubt the 
information she was given. So I can understand why she might have felt frustrated when the 
branch said they couldnt cash the cheque. 
Of course, I wasnt at the branch, but I have listened to all the calls, including the one that 
recorded the incident on the day of Mrs Es visit to the branch and her calls to the Halifax.  I 
did not hear Mrs E swear and I didnt hear branch staff accuse Mrs E of swearing either. But 
what clearly comes across is that the situation became heated and unpleasant very quickly 
for everyone involved.  
I can understand Mrs E feels strongly about what happened. She was irritated and upset at 
having been approached again, including while shes on the phone to Halifax.  But in my 
view the member of staff was attempting to keep her updated of the situation with the 
manager. Mrs E raised her voice, telling the member of staff to go away. I dont doubt that 
this was influenced by the situation that had arisen with the cheque. But I can also 
understand why staff wanted to flag the conversation and asked her to calm down. Id expect 
them to do that to avoid things getting worse. From what I can tell the conversation had 
escalated and neither party was able to defuse it. 
Mrs E says that Halifax offered her compensation of £50 for service in relation to the cheque.  
I have checked with the bank. But it says it doesnt have a record of it in relation to this 
specific complaint. My role here is to say how best I think the complaint should be resolved. I 
can see that Mrs E feels strongly about what happened. But taking everything Ive seen and 
heard from both sides on the day (and what I have said above), I dont think it would be fair 
for me to require Halifax to take any further action. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman