DRN-1513060
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy as he says that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (trading as the AA)
omitted key information about the costs of using an offer for European breakdown cover
when he took out a UK car breakdown cover policy.
Mr H wants a refund of around £13 and an additional £50 compensation for inconvenience
caused. Mr H also wants the AA to change its terms and conditions.
Any reference to the AA includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Mr H took out an annual AA break down cover policy in 2005 which covered him for the UK.
The policy renewed yearly and this is what happened in January 2019. After Mr H had been
a member for 5 years, he became a Gold Member. The AA included an offer for European
breakdown cover as part of the policy for its Gold Members. The offer, which was contained
in the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy, stated:
Gold Membership entitles the main Member to use the discount equivalent to: 2 days of AA
European Breakdown Cover applied up to 3 times within the UK Membership Breakdown
Cover policy year.
This benefit is only available by calling (redacted phone number) to activate AA European
Breakdown Cover before travelling overseas and you will need to provide us with your
intended dates of travel. The offer can be applied to take a trip of 2 days for zero premium,
or alternatively discounted against the price of a longer trip.
The discount is applied to the base price of the policy only.
Mr H had a trip to Europe planned and went onto the AA website. He says he was quoted
approximately £13 for cover for one day, or approximately £39 for three days cover as a new 
customer. He then called the AA to take advantage of the offer for Gold Members as it was 
only available by telephone. When he called, Mr H was told that although he could apply the 
offer of two free days of European Breakdown Cover, hed need to pay approximately £19 
for the third day of cover for his trip.
Mr H is unhappy as he says the difference between the quote for a single day online was
approximately £6 cheaper compared to when he applied the offer and paid for an additional
days cover over the telephone. He also feels that as the wording of the offer doesnt
mention that any additional chargeable days could be higher when using the offer - its
misleading and wasnt made clear to him when he made the decision to initially take the UK
breakdown policy out.
The AA have said that the information Mr H was given was correct. They dont have
information from 2005 when the policy was sold but have referred to the policy renewal in
2019. Theyve also said that the prices quoted online and over the phone were different as
they relate to two different offers, but that only one offer can be used at a time and a
customer cant have two policies live at the same time.The AA said the online quote included an online discount  as the administrative costs are
less than when helping customers by telephone and these savings are passed on to
customers. Whereas the telephone quote included the two free days of European
Breakdown Cover offer which Mr Hs Gold Membership entitled him to.
Mr H complained to the AA and they didnt uphold his complaint. He remained unhappy and
referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator also didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In
summary, he found that it was AAs own commercial decision that the European breakdown
offer could only be used over the phone, the terms werent misleading or didnt omit any key
information and overall that the AA hadnt done anything wrong.
Ive noted that Mr Hs complaint initially focused on the price difference between using the
European breakdown offer and not using it. After receiving our investigators assessment,
Mr H said that actually his primary complaint was that, at the time of taking out the UK
breakdown policy, he wasnt given all of the information relating to the European breakdown
offer.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings, so his complaint has been passed to me for a
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 July setting out my reasoning and intended findings. 
Below is a copy of my provisional findings:
"Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also thought about the law, good
industry practice, the terms of this policy. So, although Mr H has made specific references to
legislation including the Consumer Credit Act and Unfair trading Regulations, they are only
part of what Ive considered. Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my
decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although several issues have been raised by Mr H, this decision only addresses those
issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, Ive to tell Mr H that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
When coming to my decision Ive to consider many things. For example; the evidence
presented by both parties, the law, good industry practice, the terms of this policy as well as
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
The setting of premiums and discounts offered
Whilst I accept that a large part of Mr Hs complaint is about insurance premium prices
based on the sales channel and how the AA offers discounts, its not within my remit to direct 
the AA to set their insurance premiums in a particular way or how they should offer
discounts.
Mr H has raised a point about our Service directing the AA to either change their terms and
conditions to reflect the cost of additional days when bought alongside the offer, or direct the 
AA to allow customers to benefit from the online premium prices when using the offer. Again, 
this isnt something thats within my remit to do.
Its widely accepted that customers will generally benefit from cheaper premiums online,
usually because there are lower administrative costs associated with online insurance sales. This isnt unique to Mr H's complaint and I dont find anything surprising or sinister in the 
price difference according to the sales channel.
The information the AA gave Mr H when he took out the initial policy
I need to consider whether the AA left out key information from its terms relating to this offer
and, if it did, whether this affected Mr Hs ability to make an informed decision to buy the
policy.
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, the AA dont have information about how the
policy was initially sold in 2005. But Ive also kept in mind that when Mr H made the decision
to initially purchase UK breakdown cover.
The information Ive seen suggests that the European breakdown cover was a bonus of
being an AA member for five years or more. So, when Mr H took the policy out initially in
2005 it wasnt relevant information that the AA needed to give him at that time. I find it more
likely than not he was looking to buy UK cover and the two days free European offer was an
additional bonus of this policy rather than a key reason for taking it out.
Ive been able to consider a copy of the Gold membership terms and conditions that were
sent to Mr H following the policy renewal in 2019. In my opinion, the terms do contain the
key information about this offer. So I cant fairly say that the AA left out key information that
shouldve been brought to Mr Hs attention or that was more likely to have affected his
decision to take this policy out.
I say this because the European breakdown offer states it can only be used over the phone
and provides the contact number for the AA. Therefore, I dont find it unusual that the prices
Mr H was presented with through the online quote prior to calling the AA may have been
different as they were based on an online discount and an additional membership discount,
rather than the Gold membership offer that Mr H was intending to use and knew he had to
phone the AA for.
Terms of the offer
Although Mr H feels hes out of pocket by around £6 on each of the occasions hes used the
offer, I dont see things quite the same. I think the AA correctly applied the terms of the offer. 
I say this because the offer states the discount can be applied to two days cover or against 
the cost of cover for a longer trip. Based on the quote Mr H was given to buy three days 
cover online, he still benefited by using his Gold Membership offer by saving approximately 
£20 compared to if he hadnt used it.
The AA have confirmed that it wasnt an option to use the two days free offer and take out a
second policy online to cover the third day. Ive also noted Mr Hs point about not being able
to use this offer against the online quote he was given. But the terms state that this offer
cant be used alongside another offer. So I dont uphold his complaint about this.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont agree with Mr H that the AA were misleading
or left out key information in relation to this offer that would mean this policy was mis-sold. I
also think that the AA applied the policy terms fairly and reasonably when Mr H called to
arrange the European Breakdown cover.
Therefore, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint. It follows that I dont require the
AA to do anything further or award any compensation for the trouble and upset that Mr H
says this issue has caused him."The AA haven't responded to my provisional decision. Mr H did reply and he doesn't accept 
my provisional decision. He replied with the following points:
"i. He makes no reference to the contents of my e-mail of 28th January 2020 (attached), 
which represented the entirety of complaint. In particular, he omitted to make any reference 
to the competing interpretations that I detailed in paragraph 4 of that e-mail as well as 
Section 69 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 quoted in paragraph 5. The Ombudsman ought 
to have found in my favour based solely on the unchallenged crucial legal argument in these 
two paragraphs, irrespective of any other legal arguments, yet it is very obvious that he did 
not take these paragraphs into account at all. If he disagreed with my reasoning in 
paragraphs 4 and 5, then I would have expected a detailed challenge of these paragraphs in 
his provisional decision. It is not acceptable to overlook the most compelling legal argument 
of my complaint without making any reference to it.
ii. The Ombudsman states Mr H has made specific references to legislation including the
Consumer Credit Act. This is entirely false. I made no reference to such legislation. Rather
than a typographical error, this indicates that the Ombudsman has not properly read my e-
mail of 28th January 2020 and has skimmed over or misunderstood the most significant 
legal arguments that I presented.
iii. In paragraph 1 of my e-mail of 28th January 2020, I stated that I bought the policy on 
25th January 2019, yet the Ombudsman makes repeated reference to a previous policy that 
I bought in 2005, which did not include the benefit in question. He wrote I find it more likely 
than not he was looking to buy UK cover and the two days free European offer was an 
additional bonus of this policy rather than a key reason for taking it out. This is an incorrect 
assumption, and is not supported by any evidence. My significant decision was to renew the 
policy on 25th January 2019, in particular because of the included the European cover, 
rather than any decision to buy a more limited UK-only policy in 2005.
iv. The Ombudsman wrote I cant fairly say that the AA left out key information that 
shouldve been brought to Mr Hs attention or that was more likely to have affected his 
decision to take this policy out. This ignores, and makes no reference to, the legal argument 
in paragraph 6 of my e-mail of 28th January 2020.
v. The Ombudsman wrote I dont find it unusual that the prices Mr H was presented with 
through the online quote prior to calling the AA may have been different as they were based 
on an online discount and an additional membership discount (my underlining). This is 
incorrect. The prices advertised on the AAs web site do not state that they are discounted. 
Therefore I had no reason to believe that the premiums for booking by telephone would be 
higher than the online premiums. The Ombudsman did not address this key point.'
I believe that I have addressed what's at the heart of Mr H's complaint, but for clarity I'll 
expand in more detail in my final decision below.  
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in the provisional decision, Ive thought about the law, good industry practice, 
the terms of this policy. But I think its also important to explain that, as were an alternative 
to going to court, I dont need to use the language or formality that might be associated with 
one. And, although several issues have been raised by Mr H, this decision  and my 
provisional decision - only addresses those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this 
complaint. Therefore, I won't be commenting in detail on every point made by Mr H.However, Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision. As such, I confirm that I read the email dated 28 January 2020 from Mr H to our 
service.
Having reconsidered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
I accept that I incorrectly included a reference to the Consumer Credit Act when it should 
have read Consumer Rights Act as an example of legislation that Mr H had referred to in 
his submissions to our service. I apologise for this mistake. However, this doesnt change my 
decision. As I explained in the provisional decision, they are only part of what Ive 
considered. 
In my decision, I pointed out that Mr Hs argument has changed since he brought the 
complaint to our service:
Ive noted that Mr Hs complaint initially focused on the price difference between using the 
European breakdown offer and not using it. After receiving our investigators assessment, Mr 
H said that actually his primary complaint was that, at the time of taking out the UK 
breakdown policy, he wasnt given all of the information relating to the European breakdown 
offer. 
It wouldve been impossible for me to note the entirety of the Mr Hs complaint had I not 
considered all the evidence on file.
As my decision points out, the initial policy was purchased in 2005. Subsequent renewals 
took place, with the 2019 renewal being at the heart of this complaint. This doesnt change 
my decision. My finding remains that the AA included what I consider to be the key 
information in the policy terms that Mr H needed when he decided to renew the policy in 
2019.
Although Mr H doesnt agree, the AA have confirmed to our service that the premiums 
offered online are through a different type of discount to the premiums offered over the 
telephone. This is apparent when considering the premiums alongside each other. The offer 
that Mr H wanted to use couldnt be used in conjunction with another offer and was only 
available over the phone. In my opinion, there arent competing interpretations of the offer as 
the wording makes it clear how the offer can be used. 
To be clear, this offer could only be used over the telephone and therefore only insurance 
premiums offered over the telephone would be used to calculate the third days cover. The 
AA didnt need to tell Mr H that online premiums might be cheaper as the offer couldnt be 
used online  so I dont agree this was relevant information. Mr H was free to not use the 
offer and pay more overall  albeit with a cheaper daily rate - by using the online premiums if 
he wished to. But he chose to use and take advantage of the offer when he was aware that 
there was another, more expensive option available. Therefore, I still dont uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything, I dont agree with Mr H that the AA were misleading 
or left out key information in relation to this offer that would mean this policy was mis-sold. I 
also think that the AA applied the policy terms fairly and reasonably when Mr H called to 
arrange the European Breakdown cover. 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but this decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve 
this complaint  can do for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman