DRN-2521894
The complaint
Ms D says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a store card. I know 
she has complained about a number of different products so to be clear, this decision is 
about the Debenhams card she took out at the end of 1995, with PPI being added to the 
account in mid-1996. 
A company called AXA France IARD is now responsible for complaints about these sales. Ill 
therefore refer mainly to AXA throughout this final decision.  
What happened
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Ms D disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Ds complaint.
I certainly dont doubt that Ms Ds recollections of events are honest and genuine. However, 
these events are obviously from a considerable time ago and we have very little information 
to go on. AXA says its records indicate the policy was sold over the telephone after the store 
card had already been taken out, probably in a store setting, a few months earlier. Ms D is 
adamant she wouldnt have ever agreed to PPI.
Weve seen a number of very similar sales to this one and weve spoken at length to the 
company involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were generally used. The 
AXA description of how this sale took place is in accordance with my understanding of how 
many consumers bought this type of PPI with store cards at around that time.
Theres no recording of the call and AXA doesnt have any notes from it. I dont think thats 
surprising or unreasonable given that this all took place almost 25 years ago and businesses 
arent required to keep records indefinitely. But from the documentation weve previously 
seen from similar sales, we think the telephone guidance would have instructed the call-
handler to explain the PPI was optional and get the consumers permission to add the policy. 
I sympathise and understand that Ms D feels strongly now about being sold this PPI cover, 
but given what AXAs records show  and my own experience of similar sales - I think its 
likely a telephone call did take place, which Ms D no longer remembers. 
But in thinking more widely about what might have happened, I think the charges for the PPI 
would have appeared on Ms Ds monthly statements and I can see from her account that 
she held the PPI for a while - until 2004. So, I think if she hadnt ever agreed to the PPI, she 
would have most likely wanted to know what the charges were for, particularly as shed 
operated the card for some months initially without PPI. 
These things, taken together, make me think its more likely Ms D agreed to buy the PPI 
policy with her store card, back in 1996.
My experience is that AXA provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to 
provide enough clear information for Ms D to decide for herself whether she wanted the 
cover. I simply cant say whether this was done because theres nothing to refer to after so 
long. But I think its just as likely that important information was given  as it wasnt. And I 
think its fair for me to assume Ms D would have at least been sent something by the third-
party insurer explaining the cover and what it did.
Ms D told us she had some sickness protection already with her job, implying she didnt 
need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the 
benefits and means Ms D says she enjoyed. But Im afraid these dont necessarily mean the 
PPI wasnt of use. 
Ive checked that Ms D was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI would 
have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to 
work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits would have been in 
addition to any other means Ms D had in place at the time. So I think the PPI policy was 
something that would have been of use in her situation.
For me to uphold Ms Ds complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I just dont have 
that evidence. So Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms D.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman