DRN-3903566
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Granite Coast Ltd (Granite) delayed in following his instructions to 
set up an annuity for him and that it wasnt acting in his best interests in advising against 
annuity purchase. Mr N has said that, only when he threatened to move to another firm of 
financial advisers did it provide the required information, which then proved impossible to 
implement.
Granite should have made him aware of the impossibility of obtaining an annuity while living 
abroad, Mr N added, but instead was seeking annuity quotations from companies which 
werent going to offer an annuity to him, given his circumstances.
Mr Ns view is that Granite has delayed proceedings with the intention of keeping his 
pension investment and the commission it produces. But given that it was unable to stay 
abreast of changes in annuities, Mr N has queried as to whether Granite should have been 
entitled to the fees its charged him.
Mr Ns also said that Granite wasnt transparent about the charges it would levy for 
establishing an annuity on his behalf.
What happened
The investigator who considered Mr Ns complaint set out a timeline of what happened here, 
which he said was produced from the information provided by both parties to the complaint. 
It covered the period from October 2017, when Mr N established his Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) following advice from Granite, up to November 2019  the point at which 
Granite ceased acting as Mr Ns financial advisers. Im broadly setting out that same 
summary below.
The investigator noted that Mr N had contacted Granite on 8 August 2018 as he was 
approaching 70 and wished to review his retirement options. Mr N was living overseas and 
didnt anticipate returning to the UK until April/May 2019  but he was concerned about the 
effect of Brexit on his pension funds. At that time, the value of the SIPP was around 
£180,000.
Granite acknowledged Mr Ns email on the same day and subsequently provided annuity 
quotes on 16 August 2018. It confirmed that Canada Life required Mr N to be a resident in 
the UK (this was confirmed to Granite by Canada Life on 15 August 2018 by email, a copy of 
which had been provided to the investigator). 
Granite also confirmed that it would conduct some further research and would provide a 
quote on a flexi access drawdown basis as an alternative.
Granite enclosed a Common Quotation Form for Mr N to complete on 30 August 2018. 
The purpose of this form was to investigate the possibility of obtaining an enhanced annuity, 
which would have been based upon Mr Ns health and lifestyle. Mr N confirmed on 5 
September 2018 that he intended to opt for an annuity and planned to live overseas for the 
next two to three years.
Mr N completed the Common Quotation Form together with a doctors medical report and
sent them to Granite by post on 5 October 2018, reiterating his intention to take out an
annuity. He also said he was suffering from several health issues.
Granite agreed to forward Mr Ns completed quotation forms to various annuity providers on
10 October 2018. Mr N acknowledged this and confirmed his intention of taking out the
annuity to coincide with his 70th birthday in April 2019.
On 24 October 2018, Granite contacted Mr N as one provider requested details of the 
medication he was taking. Granite also informed Mr N that, as his SIPP portfolio would be 
valued at less than £100,000 after taking the annuity, its charges would increase and Granite 
would charge £750 (1% of the annuity value) irrespective of whether the annuity was taken 
up as it would need to construct a suitability report for the advice. It subsequently explained 
that the charge was due to the additional administration that had been involved and the 
implementation of Mr Ns instructions.
Mr N queried the charge, but following an exchange of emails with Granite he confirmed, on 
4 December 2018, that he accepted it on the basis that it would be paid directly by Mr N only 
if he decided not to proceed with the annuity.
Granite wrote to Mr N on 20 December 2018 confirming the annuity quotes, which were 
based on a purchase price of £75,000. It confirmed the quotes assumed that Mr N would be 
living in the UK when the annuity started. It also said that these quotes were for a limited 
time only and a new quote would be needed when Mr N was next in the UK. Granite also 
asked Mr N when he expected to be in the UK so that the necessary preparations could be 
made. Granite reconfirmed in its email dated 4 January 2019 that it was a requirement of 
some providers that he must be a UK resident.
Granite then contacted Mr N again on 26 March 2019, enquiring about his visit to the UK. It 
said that it would need time to research the annuity market when Mr N was in the
UK. Mr N confirmed on 19 April 2019 that he was due to be in the UK shortly for a visit but 
had no intention of living in the UK. He also asked whether there was any feedback 
regarding the medical information provided. Granite replied on 25 April 2019 asking for
further details of the medication taken for one of Mr Ns health issues in preparation of the 
meeting.
Mr N emailed Granite on 5 August 2019 saying that he appreciated that its advice was not to 
establish an annuity, but that he thought this was the best course of action due to the 
certainty they offered. He said that an annuity hadnt been established despite
his clear instructions to proceed prior to March 2019. Mr N also asked whether the rates 
previously quoted would have changed by a great deal and whether they could be updated. 
Granite replied on 6 August 2019, confirming that Mr N needed to be in the UK in order to 
establish an annuity. It subsequently sent Mr N an enhanced pension annuity quotation form 
for him to complete on 22 August 2019.
On 5 September 2019, a meeting with Granite was arranged and was due to take place on 
10 October 2019 in order to discuss the annuity quotes received from Canada Life and 
Aviva. However, Granite emailed Mr N on 10 September 2019 saying that, due to Brexit and 
the uncertainty caused by this, Canada Life was no longer offering annuities to individuals 
living in EU countries. Granite also confirmed that it wouldnt charge for the research it had 
completed with regard to the annuity purchase.
Mr N acknowledged this on 16 September 2019, saying that the meeting wouldnt be required as he would not be returning to the UK.
After contacting Scottish Widows and Canada Life himself, Mr N contacted Granite on 11 
November 2019 saying that Scottish Widows never offered annuities to non-UK residents 
and Canada Life stopped granting annuities to non-UK residents in February 2019 
(confirmation of which Mr N provided). 
Granite replied on 19 November 2019, referring to the changing landscape of annuities, the 
time it had spent answering Mr Ns questions and the available alternatives, but also 
confirming that it would no longer answer any questions and providing notification of de-
appointment as a client of Granite with effect from 10 December 2019.
There was a further email exchange between Mr N and Granite on 9 December 2019, in 
which it was confirmed that Mr N could maintain his SIPP, but that Granite would no longer 
have access to his information.
Mr N complained to Granite in October 2020, but Granite declined to uphold the complaint, 
saying in summary that it had advised Mr N to not establish an annuity according to what it 
considered to be his best interests. In support of this, it cited current market conditions and 
that an annuity would give Mr N little or no protection in the future from rising inflation.
In terms of Mr Ns assertion about the delays encountered, Granite said that Mr N wasnt 
resident in the UK and it was a requirement that forms were signed in the UK. Any delays, 
including the need to obtain fresh annuity quotes, had been caused by Mr N not being in the 
UK, Granite added, and that paper correspondence had needed to be sent to his UK 
address.
It further said that, although Mr N had complained that it was only at his insistence that forms 
were provided, it had on many occasions provided annuity quotes for him, but these had 
never been completed as Mr N hadnt been in the UK to sign the forms. It also said, with 
regard to Mr Ns point about action only being taken when he threatened to move elsewhere, 
that there was no evidence that Mr N had threatened this, and it was Granite which had 
instigated the termination of their relationship.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr N referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld, saying the following in 
summary:
Granite wasnt aware of which annuity providers were pulling out of the annuity 
market due to the uncertainties following Brexit until it began researching the market. 
There was no reason to believe that Granite routinely advised on annuities for non 
UK residents.
Canada Life confirmed to Granite on 15 August 2018 that it was unable to offer 
annuities to non UK residents, but it had also told Mr N that it had taken this decision 
in February 2019, to be implemented in March 2019. This disparity highlighted the 
issues faced by both Mr N and Granite in determining the actual position relating to 
annuities for overseas residents.
Granite was also unable to provide financial advice unless Mr N visited one of its UK 
offices, and this was a regulatory requirement. The quotations were provided in 
anticipation of a visit to the UK, and this was initially due to happen in April/May 
2019, but a date was never agreed. A further date was agreed in October 2019, but this was then cancelled.
Granite informed Mr N shortly after his initial enquiry that a condition of establishing 
an annuity was that he be a UK resident. Mr N had confirmed that he would be 
resident overseas for the next two to three years, and although he was paying UK 
tax, he wouldnt have been considered a UK resident.
He understood that the experience might have been frustrating for Mr N, but it hadnt 
been possible to establish an annuity with Canada Life before its decision to stop 
offering these for overseas residents as Mr N hadnt visited the UK before that point.
It was beyond Granites control that providers changed their position regarding non 
UK residents and it was reasonable that it wouldnt have been aware of this until it 
began researching quotations.
The available evidence didnt support the position that Granite tried to retain Mr Ns 
pension funds to earn greater commission from the invested sum  rather, the 
evidence demonstrated that Granite had tried to source an annuity provider for Mr N.
Mr N had confirmed that, as he required additional funds, he withdrew £80,000 from 
his pension in February 2020. This was the option advised by Granite and appeared 
to have been the only one available to him whilst resident overseas.
Mr N disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
The stated inability to set up an annuity when not in the UK was a smokescreen. He 
hadnt been informed that an annuity would be obtained if he visited the UK. Granite 
was doing all it could to prevent him from taking an annuity.
The investigator had said that Granite had sent quotes in December 2018 which 
assumed that he was living in the UK, and then further quotes from other companies 
who no longer provided annuities for UK non-residents, but Granite was aware that 
he had been resident overseas for the preceding 12 years. He queried as to whether 
this was not in itself an error which was cause for complaint.
Although the investigator had said that Granite hadnt been aware of which providers 
were pulling out of the annuity market for overseas residents, Mr N queried as to 
whether it should have done.
Mr N disputed that him not visiting the UK had caused the problem. Mr N requested 
sight of the conflicting evidence which had been provided by Canada Life.
The investigator had referred to his withdrawal of pension funds in 2020, but this was 
the only option available to him by then. It wouldnt have been the only option, had 
Granite carried out its duties correctly.
The investigator responded, saying the following:
The email from Granite dated 4 January 2019 said that the annuity quotes would only 
be available for a short period during Mr Ns visit to the UK. Reference had also been 
made to a conversation in which it was explained that it would be necessary for Mr N 
to be present in the UK when any application was made.As Mr N was seeking an annuity, it was reasonable for Granite to provide annuity 
options which were available to him, even if this required the annuitant to be living in 
the UK.
It wasnt unreasonable for Granite to only learn which companies were offering 
annuities to overseas residents once it had approached them for a quote.
Mr N had withdrawn the lump sum in February 2020, but this was Mr Ns choice, and 
Granite had carried out its duties properly.
The investigator provided the email demonstrating the conflicting information which they said 
had been produced by Canada Life.
Mr N didnt agree, however, and requested that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for 
review. And so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 9 December 2022, in which I set out my 
reasons for not upholding the complaint. The following is an extract from that decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Granites position on this is broadly that it tried to assist Mr N in researching 
annuity options, but couldnt actually apply for one without Mr N being in the UK at the time. 
Its view is that there was a point when Mr N might have been able to establish an annuity in 
his position, and that this was communicated to him, but that due to Mr N not attending its 
office to complete the required forms, this didnt happen.
Granite couldnt provide Mr N with formal financial advice, as it needed him to be in the UK 
to do so. It clearly offered an opinion on whether an annuity would be the right course of 
action for Mr N, but I think this is rendered somewhat moot by the ultimate inability of Mr N to 
establish an annuity in the UK  hence the lump sum withdrawal of £80,000 in 2020.
I think Granite needed to provide accurate information to Mr N relating to this  otherwise, I 
can understand why he might be reluctant to attend a meeting in the UK if it wasnt clear that 
he would in fact be able to establish an annuity in the UK. And I think the available evidence 
supports the position that Granite was making it clear, from shortly after Mr Ns initial 
enquiry, that due to uncertainties caused by Brexit, Mr N may not be able to establish an 
annuity if he was resident overseas.
I dont think it failed to disclose this information. Mr N has suggested that the assumption 
that hed be resident in the UK accompanying the annuity quotation in 2018 would in itself be 
cause for complaint as the adviser was aware that hed been living overseas for many years.
And on the face of it, the timeline as set out above would seem to indicate a cycle of Granite 
conveying quotes which assumed that Mr N would be living in the UK, with Mr N then 
routinely confirming that he in had no intention of living in the UK  at least for several years.
I think its arguable that it wasnt unreasonable for Granite to have provided annuity quotes 
on the bases stated  it was effectively conveying options as known to it, and it would then 
have been up to Mr N to determine whether this would apply to him. Granite couldnt itself 
alter the terms of the quotes - it was simply conveying them.
And regarding Mr Ns point about whether Granite ought to have known that other annuity 
providers were pulling out of the market for overseas residents, I think, due to the changing landscape as Brexit became nearer, it would be reasonable for it to obtain this knowledge 
during the process of seeking quotes from the various companies.
Mr N has further said that the lump sum withdrawal of £80,000 in February 2020 was by then 
his only option, the suggestion here being that, had it fulfilled its duties correctly, Mr N would 
have been able to establish an annuity at an earlier point.
But there are a couple of points on this, and ones which suggest that the process wasnt 
quite as straightforward as the above timeline  and the apparent cycle of Granite informing 
Mr N that hed need to be living in the UK, with him then confirming that this wouldnt be the 
case  would suggest. 
The available evidence  in house email communication from late August/early September 
2018, in advance of the phone call which was held on 5 September 2018 to arrange a 
meeting, indicates that Granite had tried to ascertain a definitive position relating to whether 
Mr N would be able to buy an annuity.
The initial enquiry read as follows:
I would like to be clear as whether [Mr N] can buy an annuity whilst he is living in [overseas]. 
He would complete the application here and he is a UK tax payer (UK resident for tax). I 
assume that the payments would need to be paid in a UK bank account but I should be 
grateful if [email recipient] would clarify the exact position. [Another adviser] thought that 
there could be problems but I dont understand exactly why.
The recipient of the email wrote back to the adviser as follows:
I have spoken to LV, Aviva and Canada Life on the phone today and this is what I have 
found:
LV  Happy to offer Protected Retirement Plans like the one attached for people 
living abroad, as long as they have a UK bank account.
Aviva  Would not offer an annuity to someone living abroad unless it was bought 
using an Aviva pension they already held.
Canada Life  Happy to offer annuities to people living abroad, as long as they have 
a tax code with HMRC (UK Tax Resident).
My understanding is that Mr N had informed Granite that he paid UK tax, and he had a UK 
bank account, so it might reasonably be assumed that both LV and Canada Life could have 
accommodated his annuity request. 
Further email correspondence resulted in the following comment from Granite on 4 January 
2019:
I understand that you are a UK resident for tax purposes but some annuity providers have 
said that the applicant must be resident in the UK. This is one of the points that I will discuss 
when I speak to them prior to obtaining the final quotes. As these will only be valid for a short 
period I will undertake this in anticipation of your visit.
You may remember that we discussed this when we spoke in September and in answer to 
your question, I confirmed that it would be necessary for the application to be made when 
you are next in the UK which you said would be in April.When it seemed that Mr N would be visiting the UK, as indicated by his email of 14 April 
2019, Granite said that it would be useful to agree a date for a meeting so that the 
appropriate preparation could be undertaken to establish an annuity.
On 19 April 2019, Mr N confirmed that no further action was required at that time, but in 
response, Granite said that if Mr N still wished to apply for an annuity, they would need to 
agree a date for a visit to its offices as it would need to undertake work in preparation.
There doesnt seem to have been further communication until August 2019, at which point 
Mr N confirmed the following in his email dated 5 August 2019:
I still remain a fiscal resident of the UK and all money payments would be to a UK Bank and 
correspondence to my UK address. Any Provider must allow this. Please bear this in mind 
although it may change over brexit.
Unfortunately, following further communication relating to the possibility of an enhanced 
annuity, Granite then confirmed on 10 September 2019 that annuity purchase wouldnt be 
possible whilst Mr N was resident overseas.
But as far as I can tell, the research which Granite had been undertaking would appear to 
have been consistent with its understanding of Mr Ns situation  in that the providers from 
which it had sought quotes might, at the time of asking, have provided an annuity to people 
who had a UK bank account or a UK tax code.
That position may then have changed over time, as indicated in the January 2019 email 
exchange, but as far as I can tell, once quotations had been sought, the outstanding matter 
was for Mr N to visit it in the UK to complete the application process. This didnt then 
happen, but I dont think I can hold Granite responsible for this.
As such, my current view is that I dont think I can fairly or reasonably hold Granite 
responsible for the inability for Mr N to set up an annuity. As far as I can tell, it took 
reasonable steps in researching the annuity options and conveyed these to Mr N  and it 
then anticipated a visit from Mr N to complete the relevant application forms, but this didnt 
happen. 
Ive also thought about the matter of the transparency of the fees, but I can see that, 
although there was some initial concern expressed by Mr N over this, agreement was 
reached in December 2018 on how these would be paid.
Granite had nothing further to add, and although Mr N expressed disappointment at my 
findings, saying that he felt the outcome to be unjust, he made no further comment on the 
merits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My view on the matter remains the same as that set out in the provisional decision, and for 
the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman