DRN-3902711
The complaint
Mr M complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (BG) failure to properly maintain his 
boiler, under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr M said that he had held boiler cover with BG that included an annual service. He said that 
following a routine service, by BG, its engineer found that there was corrosion in the 
combustion chamber. As a result, he decommissioned the boiler. Mr M had to buy a new 
boiler at a cost to him of £2,931.00. 
Mr M believed that as BG had been servicing his boiler for around nine years, it should have 
identified the corrosion much earlier. If it had done so, then he might not have needed to 
replace the boiler. So, he complained to BG as he wanted it to reimburse the costs of the 
new boiler that he had to buy. 
In its final response, BG said that there was no evidence that its engineers had failed to 
identify corrosion. It said that during the last two annual services, no corrosion was found in 
the boiler. And both engineers outlined what steps they took to check for corrosion. So, it 
was difficult to ascertain when the corrosion started. And it said it wouldnt be liable for a 
contribution towards the cost of Mr Ms new boiler. BG did however offer Mr M £40, as a 
gesture of goodwill for the frustration that he had encountered. 
Mr M was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service, as he remained 
unhappy. One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said that there was no evidence from Mr M that showed when the corrosion 
started. There was no evidence of corrosion when the engineers attended. Or that it was the 
result of BGs actions. For these reasons, she was unable to ask BG to contribute towards 
Mr Ms new boiler. Unless Mr M was able to provide evidence to the contrary, that she could 
consider. 
BG accepted the view. Mr M did not. He said that had BG carried out the annual services 
correctly, it would have found the corrosion sooner. And he wouldve been able to repair the 
boiler rather than replace it. There was no evidence from BG that it checked for corrosion. 
And he only wanted more compensation for the poor service, rather than reimbursement of 
the boiler. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr M, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr M held a home emergency policy with BG that provided cover for his boiler, including an 
annual service. Mr M explained that over the previous nine years BG had carried out annual 
services on his boiler. He said that had BG been thorough during the annual services, then it 
would have found the corrosion in his boiler earlier, which couldve meant that he was faced 
with a repair, rather than the expensive replacement of his boiler.
BG said that it wasnt liable for a contribution towards Mr Ms boiler, as its engineers had 
checked for corrosion during the last two annual services, and none was found. Further, 
there was no evidence as to when the corrosion started, and it was possible it couldve 
started between the annual services. 
Ive considered what both parties have said and the evidence both have relied upon. I have 
also looked at the policy terms and conditions. To decide whether BG was fair and 
reasonable to decline to contribute towards Mr Ms new boiler.  I note that Mr M has now 
said that he would like BG to offer him compensation for the poor service, but when he 
initially complained to BG it was for either full reimbursement of the new boiler or a 
contribution towards it. 
Ive read the policy terms and conditions, and it allows in certain circumstances, for BG to 
replace Mr Ms boiler. But I dont think Mr Ms boiler met the conditions. These were that BG 
would replace a boiler that was less than seven years old (Mr Ms boiler was around nine 
years old). Or if the boiler had been under 10 years old, installed by BG and serviced by BG 
(but I cant see that Mr Ms boiler was installed by BG). As neither condition applies, BG had 
no obligation to replace or contribute towards the replacement boiler, under the policy terms 
and conditions. 
BG has provided me with a work record, which details the work carried out by each engineer 
who attended to Mr Ms boiler.  This record effectively gives a contemporaneous account of 
the work carried out. Also, Mr M would have been given a job report following each visit. 
Having read the work record, I can see no evidence of corrosion being found anywhere on or 
in Mr Ms boiler. In addition, BG said that the last two engineers who attended, detailed what 
steps they took to check for corrosion. And, that neither engineer found corrosion to be 
present. BG also said that the corrosion was likely started due to a leak that was localized. 
Although, Mr M has said that corrosion of this kind wouldve taken a long time to manifest, 
which I agree. But what Mr M hasnt provided me with any expert evidence of when the 
corrosion started. Nor is there any evidence that could show that even if the corrosion was 
found earlier, it could be repaired rather than replaced. BG has provided evidence from its 
engineers (who would be considered to be experts) that no corrosion was visible on previous 
annual service visits. And that it couldnt provide a timeframe when the corrosion started. 
It also said that it was possible that any corrosion could have occurred between the annual 
services. And this is a reason why it wasnt picked up until its engineer found the corrosion, 
following the last annual service. 
In the absence of any expert evidence from Mr M that refutes what BG has said, I dont think 
it would be fair for me to direct BG to make a contribution towards Mr Ms replacement 
boiler. Consequently, I think the £40 goodwill gesture is fair and reasonable for the 
frustration that BG said Mr M encountered. Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr M will be, Im 
satisfied that BG were fair and reasonable not to contribute to the replacement boiler. And I 
think it was fair in its offer of £40 for the frustrations that Mr M encountered. Accordingly, I 
cant fairly ask BG to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman