DRN-2455702
The complaint
Miss G has brought a complaint about The Co-operative Bank Plc regarding a Professional 
Career Development Loan (PCDL) she has with them. 
What happened
In November 2013, Miss G took out a £6,000 loan with Co-op. Prior to the first repayment, 
Miss G requested a top up loan of £4,000, with a repayment term of 48 months. She then 
rang Co-op to try and defer the loan repayments. Co-op accepted and extended the loan to 
five years reducing the monthly repayments to £211. 
Miss G received a notice of default in February 2018. She rang Co-op and was informed the 
default notice had been issued in error. They confirmed Miss G was up to date with her 
payments and that she could ignore the default notice. They then wrote to her and said that 
while they had agreed amended monthly repayments from her, they were required to 
maintain her loan account based on the original repayment term and were required to 
calculate arrears based on the original monthly repayment. If she maintained the amended 
monthly repayments she would still receive certain notices such as a default notice 
confirming the arrears position.
Co-op told Miss G that after a default notice was issued, they would arrange for the loan to 
be managed by a collection agent and that the collection agent would continue to honour the 
repayment arrangement in place with no interest added to the account.  
Miss G complained to Co-op and was paid £150 compensation but in June 2019 she 
received a further default letter from them. She had made a payment of £211 in June 2019 
but in July 2019 Co-op cancelled the standing order and terminated the agreement. They 
then started to try and reclaim the outstanding balance and the account was transferred to a 
collection agent. 
Miss G complained to Co-op again as she said she received several threatening letters from 
the collection agent asking for full payment of the outstanding balance. She has since been 
told by the collection agent the account has been passed back to Co-op. Co-op offered her 
£50 compensation, but Miss G referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator who reviewed the complaint said Co-op had not treated Miss G fairly and as 
a result Miss G has suffered anxiety over a long period of time. So they recommended £350 
for the distress and inconvenience caused, minus any compensation that had already been 
paid. In addition, they suggest that Co-op should contact Miss G to set up a repayment plan 
for the outstanding loan balance of £716.
Co-op accepted the view of the investigator, but Miss G did not. She said the investigators 
recommendations do not reflect all the stress, anxiety, intimidation, harassment
and bullying that the Co-op have put her through during that period. Nor did she think it was 
fair that she has to pay additional accumulated interest when Co-op has failed in managing 
the communication process on the loan. The investigator explained in detail how there was 
no additional accumulated interest added to the loan and that the compensation awarded 
was fairly significant when there had been no financial loss and no impact on a credit file, but 
Miss G asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I do believe Co-op had good intentions for agreeing the extension of the loan, they 
were not clear what the consequences of this would be for Miss G. They told her incorrect 
information several times which undoubtedly would have led to frustration and confusion for 
Miss G.
I appreciate Co-op have regulatory duties they needed to carry out to inform Miss G of her 
arrears, but I feel they have not been clear and transparent towards her from when the loan 
was extended. They initially agreed to the extension without telling her what the 
consequences would be, then told her to ignore default letters and gave poor customer 
service around this. All of this would have been confusing and upsetting for Miss G, 
especially given what shes told us about how it made her feel.
I know Miss G doesnt feel it is fair to pay outstanding accumulated interest in the 
circumstances here. But interest has always been due on the loan repayment and would 
have been payable whether the loan was extended or not and Miss G agreed to that when 
she took out the loan. So I cant agree that she should not pay the interest. I have also noted 
that Co-op have refunded two interest payments after Miss Gs made her last payment in 
June 2019 and so there has been no loss to her despite the shortcomings in Co-ops service 
here. And Co-op has confirmed that this type of loan isnt reported on Miss Gs credit file  
so theres been no impact in this sense either.
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that Co-op get in touch with Miss G to arrange a repayment 
plan and pay her £350, minus any compensation already paid, which I think is fair in the 
circumstances. As Co-op have already paid £150 then this will be deducted from the £350, 
resulting in a £200 payment for the impact this has had on her. Miss G can then speak to 
Co-op when they contact her to discuss an agreeable way forward for whats owed here.
My final decision
 My final decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay Miss G £200 and contact 
Miss G to arrange a payment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman