DRN-2891346
The complaint
Miss C complains that Vantage Motor Group Limited trading as Vantage Citroen  
Morecambe (Vantage) mis-sold her a personal contract purchase (PCP) for a car which 
was unsuitable for her needs.
What happened
In January 2019 Miss C decided she required a larger car due to her personal circumstances 
and so attended a dealership. She ordered a car and paid a £600 deposit. She also 
arranged to hand back her current car which was also subject to a credit agreement. Miss C 
says that when Miss C ended this agreement it was all settled with nothing further to pay. 
Miss C says she believed she was taking the second car on a straight hire purchase 
agreement and that the salesperson did not discuss with her any mileage limit or optional 
final payment amount.
Miss C says that she received the finance agreement via her email address but at the time it 
arrived she was pushed into signing it by the supplying dealership who were on the phone 
with her. She says she wasnt given time to read it.
Miss C collected the car around one week later. She says she then asked about receiving a 
copy of the credit agreement and was told one would be sent to her in the post. Miss C took 
the car.
In November 2019 Miss C raised again that she didnt have a copy of the paperwork. She 
was provided with a copy of the agreement and the post sales pack. She says she then 
realised it was a PCP agreement and says that there was a mileage limit of 4,000 miles per 
year. She complained to Vantage about being mis-sold the agreement.
Vantage didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. It said that a hardcopy of the agreement wouldnt 
have been provided because everything was sent and signed electronically. Vantage said 
this was a secure system as a customer had to verify the email address first and select 
security questions to answer to prove identity once the agreement was sent. Miss C had 
followed these steps and signed the agreement. The agreement set out the monthly 
payments, the length of the agreement and the optional final payment. It also set out the 
mileage limit.
Vantage said the post sales documents provided showed the questions and answers given 
by Miss C including her anticipated mileage. It said she had received all the documentation 
in advance of signing and so would have had an opportunity of declining if the terms werent 
suitable for her.
Miss C was unhappy at Vantages response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He said the evidence didnt support 
Miss Cs view that she had been rushed into signing the agreement and that she should 
have been aware of the terms and conditions she was agreeing to.
Miss C disagreed with our investigators view and the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of Miss Cs first credit agreement and a copy of the one which is the subject 
of her complaint. Ive also seen a copy of the post sales documents. Unfortunately, I dont 
know what was said between Miss C and the salesperson nor do I have copies of any emails 
so there is some evidence that is missing. Where evidence is missing or contradictory then I 
need to decide what I think is the most likely thing to have happened.
Miss Cs original car was also acquired via a PCP agreement for 39 months with a different 
credit provider. The agreement contained a mileage limit of 6,000 miles per year and had a 
final optional payment of £6,439. I understand from Miss C that this was a newer but smaller 
car than the one she acquired via the agreement with Vantage.
Miss C has said she was concerned that the second agreement was headed Hire 
Purchase agreement when it was in fact a PCP. This is because a PCP is hire purchase 
agreement, but the terms differ in that a PCP usually has lower monthly payments than a 
hire purchase as the consumer has the option at the end of the agreement to either return 
the car, use it in part exchange for another or purchase it by paying the final optional 
payment. Ive seen that Miss Cs first agreement is also headed a Hire Purchase 
Agreement so I think its reasonable to consider that Miss C should have been aware of that 
and so I cant reasonably say that not heading the agreement PCP was misleading.
Miss C says she required a bigger car and there appears to have been some discussion 
between her and the salesperson as to monthly payments. Understandably Miss C wanted 
payments around the same cost as her original car. Ive seen that the second car cost £13 
per month more but the final optional payment was lower at £4,797 at the end of a 48-month 
term. I think its fair to say that Miss C would have been unlikely to find the cost of this 
second car suitable if this agreement wasnt a PCP as the instalments would have been 
significantly greater if the credit agreement had been to repay the full cost of the car over the 
48 months unless she had paid a substantial deposit. So, I think its more likely than not that 
Miss C was agreeable to the monthly cost of the car.
Miss C says she wasnt given time to look at the agreement before being pressurised to sign 
it. However, Vantage says that the agreement was sent not from itself but directly from the 
credit provider. Miss C and the supplying dealer agree that Miss C signed the agreement 
away from the dealership. As it is the usual practice for the credit provider to send the 
documents then, although Miss C is unsure who sent it, Im satisfied it wasnt forwarded by 
the dealership.
Miss C says the supplying dealer pressurised her into signing, but I am unclear how it would 
have known to phone her at the time the documents were sent. As set out above these 
documents are security protected and consumers have to verify their email addresses in 
advance and then answer security questions to open them so only Miss C could have 
accessed the email.
Vantage says the documents were provided to Miss C in advance and so she would have 
had an opportunity of looking at them in advance of signing them. I havent seen any proof of 
when these documents were sent, and I accept Miss Cs point that the post sales paperwork 
is unsigned. However, all the terms and conditions are set out in the credit agreement that 
she signed. And this agreement is also very similar to the one she had signed for her first car, I think its reasonable to have expected Miss C to have been familiar with the terms of a 
PCP and been able to recognise them. All the terms appear on the first page of the credit 
agreement and I think the information about the monthly instalments, the final optional 
payment and the mileage limit are clearly set.
I dont have sufficient evidence to reasonably say that Vantage pressurised Miss C into 
signing. She received the documents at home and would have been able to scan the 
agreement to ensure the terms were acceptable to her.
I also accept what Vantage says that no hardcopy would have been provided as the 
documents were provided electronically. It would be for Miss C to review the documents via 
the link provided by the finance company.
I think Miss Cs biggest concern is regarding the mileage limit on the agreement which she 
says is 4,000 miles per year. But she is mistaken in how she is reading that limit. The 
mileage limit is 32,000 miles over 48 months so its 8,000 miles per year which is 2,000 
miles more than she had with her first cars agreement. While I can appreciate how Miss C 
has reached this mistaken conclusion, I think the agreement does specify the mileage limit is 
32,000 and the post sales documents specify clearly that it is an 8,000 mile per year limit.
Miss C says the mileage limit wasnt discussed but this limit is better than the one she had 
with her first car. The post sales documentation says that Miss C had stated 8,000 miles per 
year was suitable. As this mileage limit is higher than her first PCP, I think it is more likely 
than not it was discussed by the salesperson. It is also shown on the credit agreement and I 
think if this limit hadnt been suitable Miss C would have had the opportunity of raising that 
before signing the agreement.
Looking at the evidence I dont think I can reasonably say Vantage misled her about the 
PCP agreement nor allowed her insufficient time to read the agreements terms and 
conditions before signing it.  So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Miss 
C, Im not upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman