DRN-1791916
The complaint
Mr F complains about the valuation Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited placed on his 
campervan under his motor insurance policy after it was stolen. Hes also unhappy that it 
hasnt provided him with a courtesy car or paid out for the loss of items stolen with the van. 
He wants a fair valuation for his campervan. 
What happened
Mr F had converted a vehicle into a campervan. It was stolen and Markerstudy offered him 
£46,000, less the policy excess, in settlement of his claim. But Mr F said he couldnt replace 
the van for that amount due to its specification. He was unhappy that Markerstudy hadnt 
provided him with a courtesy car. And he said that hed lost personal possessions worth 
£6,500 that were in the van. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Markerstudy 
should base its valuation on the market value of the base vehicle Mr F used. And then he 
thought it should rely on an estimate Mr F had obtained for the cost of a conversion to the 
same specification as his van. This meant that he thought Markerstudy should increase its 
valuation to £55,561.40. He thought Markerstudy wasnt required to provide a courtesy car 
under the policy terms and conditions. But he thought it should pay Mr Fs claim for stolen 
personal possessions up to the £200 policy limit.   
Mr F replied that Markerstudy had offered contents cover up to a limit of £2,000 with £300 for 
any one item. 
Markerstudys engineer said hed valued the van as £38,000 but Markerstudy had instead 
offered Mr F the policy inception value of £46,000. He provided examples of new build vans 
that could be bought for this amount. Markerstudy said the contents claim was being dealt 
with as a separate complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Markerstudy has told us its dealing with Mr Fs contents claim separately. So Ill not consider 
that further here. The investigator has already explained that Mr F isnt entitled to a courtesy 
car under his policy terms and conditions. Ive checked these and I agree with his view. 
Mr Fs main concern was the valuation of his campervan. Mr F explained that hed bought a 
base vehicle and then added components to create his campervan. He said hed shopped 
around and bargained for these. He said when the conversion was finished, he told 
Markerstudy this and the van was insured for what it had cost him, £46,000. The receipts for 
this work were in the stolen van but Mr F was able to provide some evidence for this. 
When the van was stolen, Markerstudys engineer said its market value, based on his 
research, was £38,000. Mr F disputed this and Markerstudy offered him £46,000, which was 
the estimate Mr F had provided when hed converted the van. But Mr F said he now couldnt 
find a replacement for this amount. He said his quotes for a replacement van have all been 
over £60,000. 
I cant see that Mr F had an agreed value policy for his van. Hed updated the broker with the 
vans value with an estimate of £46,000 after hed made the conversion. But he hadnt 
changed the policy to an agreed value one. So I think Mr F was covered for the market value 
of his van at the time of its loss.  
This is defined in the policy as: 
The cost of replacing the insured vehicle at the time of loss or damage compared with one 
of the same make, model, specification and condition The market value will be assessed 
by an automotive engineer in conjunction with the published trade guides at the time of loss.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we usually obtain valuations from 
motor-trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides 
to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide 
research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We 
also take all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Because the van was a conversion, its not possible to find a valuation for it in the motor 
trade guides. So our investigator thought that the fairest approach was to use the guides to 
provide an estimate for the base vehicle and then use a detailed estimate provided by a 
specialist converter to determine the market value for a van with the exact same 
specification as Mr Fs.
I think this is a fair and reasonable approach as it ensures that the valuation takes into 
account the vans specification. This is central to its market value as defined by the policy 
terms and conditions and accounted for a significant proportion of the vans original cost.  
And I think this is a reasonable way of arriving at the cost of replacing the van. 
Markerstudy provided market research examples of replacement campervans. But I cant 
see that these matched the specification of Mr Fs campervan. So I dont think it would be 
fair to rely on them. Mr F also provided examples of similar vans to his own priced much 
higher. But I think these are newer vans with less mileage, so I dont think it would be fair to 
rely on them either. 
I think its reasonable to rely on the estimate for the conversion provided by the specialist 
converter which had done work on Mr Fs van. This is because I think this, along with the 
guides valuation of the vans base, is more likely to provide a market value that meets the 
policy definition. 
Our investigator found that the average valuation provided by the motor trade guides for the 
vans base was £19,949. The estimate for the conversion work totalled £35,612.40, including 
VAT. Together, the valuation for the van was £55,561.40.
Putting things right
So I think that, to put things right for Mr F, Markerstudy should increase its settlement offer 
for his campervan to £55,561.40.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman