DRN-4137975
The complaint
Mr Z complains that esure Insurance Limited asked him to pay the outstanding balance of 
his premium for his motor insurance policy after he cancelled it. Hes also unhappy with the 
courtesy car esure provided and that he couldnt take it abroad.
 
What happened
Mr Z renewed his policy with esure. His car was then damaged in an accident, and he made 
a claim on his policy. Mr Z was unhappy with the courtesy car he was provided with and that 
he couldnt take it abroad. The car was upgraded but Mr Z had to pay to insure himself on a 
friends car to travel abroad. 
Mr Z called esure and asked to cancel the policy. But he wasnt warned that, because he 
had made the claim, the full premium would then be due. esure corrected this mistake the 
next day. It paid Mr Z £350 compensation and covered the full claim costs. 
But Mr Z thought it should waive the outstanding premium balance. esure declared Mr Zs 
car a total loss. But Mr Z said it hadnt allowed him to change the vehicle on cover and he 
was now paying for two policies. esure said Mr Z hadnt requested a change of vehicle. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esure 
had made an error, but it had corrected it promptly. She thought it was entitled by the 
policys terms and conditions to request the full premium after Mr Z cancelled the policy as a 
claim had been made. And she thought esures compensation and cover for the claim was 
fair and reasonable for the impact of the error. 
She saw that esure upgraded Mr Zs courtesy car to like for like, allowed him to keep the car 
beyond the policy limit and offered to reimburse the cost of the extra insurance he had to 
pay. She saw no evidence that Mr Z intended to replace his car on the policy. She thought 
esure didnt need to do anything further. 
Mr Z replied that hed been caused prejudice as he thought he could have made a decision 
about changing the car on cover after his complaint had been resolved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr Z felt frustrated by how his claim was handled. I can see that esure 
accepted that its level of service had been wanting. When a business makes a mistake, as 
esure accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as its 
able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
And Im satisfied that esure has fairly and reasonably restored Mr Zs position and 
compensated him for the impact of its errors. Ill now explain why I think this. 
There was initial confusion about whether Mr Zs car was repairable or a total loss. The claim 
wasnt managed well, and this caused an avoidable delay. I can see that Mr Z called esure 
often for updates and this caused him inconvenience. But Im satisfied that esure considered 
this under its compensation. 
Mr Z was entitled to a like for like courtesy car, but this wasnt provided until after he 
complained. He was then given a faulty car, and this had to be replaced. I can understand 
that this must have been frustrating for him. But esure did keep Mr Z in hire for 38 days, 
rather than the 21 days he was entitled to under his policys terms and conditions. And, 
again, Im satisfied that this was reasonably considered under its payment of compensation. 
Mr Z had made it clear that he wanted to take the hire car abroad. But he wasnt correctly 
advised that he couldnt do this, and he had to arrange an alternative. Fortunately, Mr Z was 
able to insure himself on a friends car and so he could take it abroad. And I think esure has 
reasonably agreed to reimburse Mr Z for the cost he incurred on provision of evidence of this 
expense. 
Mr Z said his cars tyre had been damaged during the recovery. Mr Z wanted to retain the 
cars salvage and so I can understand that he was upset by this. And esure has reimbursed 
Mr Z for the cost of a replacement tyre so he wasnt caused a loss. 
When he asked to cancel the policy, Mr Z wasnt then told that the full premium would then 
be due. And Mr Z thought that because of this esure should waive the balance. But I dont 
think that would be fair or reasonable. This is because on page 15 of Mr Zs policy booklet 
under the heading Total loss of your car it states:
If we decide your car is a total loss: 
No refund will be issued and if youre paying by direct debit the full annual premium 
will need to be paid unless we have already deducted this from your claim payment
Your policy will be cancelled including the car hire benefit, unless we agree 
otherwise
I think this is a common term and condition in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it 
unusual or unreasonable, but it is significant. And I think it has been clearly set out in the 
policy wording where it was available for Mr Z to read. And so Im satisfied its reasonable for 
esure to rely on it.
esure paid Mr Z a settlement for the total loss of his car and so Im satisfied it indemnified 
him under the policys terms and conditions. And then esure was entitled by the above terms 
and conditions to request the full premium. esure offered to reinstate the policy so Mr Z 
could pay this by monthly instalments, but Mr Z declined this offer.
Mr Z said he wasnt given the opportunity to replace his car on the policy. But Mr Z didnt at 
any time ask about replacing the car on his policy. And he told us that he had found cheaper 
cover elsewhere. Mr Z had retained his cars salvage. There was a months gap between the 
cancellation of the policy and Mr Z insuring his new car. So I think he evidently didnt intend 
to replace his car when he cancelled his policy. So I dont require esure to waive the 
outstanding balance of Mr Zs premiums. 
I think esures compensation payment of £350 is in keeping with our published guidance for 
the level of impact its errors had. So I dont require it to increase this or to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman