DRN-2665512
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled his claim on his mobile 
insurance policy. 
Mr C is being assisted by his partner, Miss A, in bringing this complaint.
Any reference to Aviva also includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr C has his mobile phone insurance as part of a package of benefits with his bank account. 
In November 2020, while on holiday with Miss A, his mobile phone was stolen. He made a 
claim, but Aviva turned it down as the phone contract was in a family members name and 
Mr Cs policy only covered phones owned by the bank account holder.
Miss A complained to Aviva and said shed already explained in an earlier phone call that the 
contract wasnt in Mr Cs name. She also said she was told at the time the claim would be 
accepted despite this. 
Aviva said it couldnt locate the phone call in question but was satisfied it had correctly 
declined Mr Cs claim. Miss A provided a screen shot of the call log on her phone as 
evidence of the specific call. But Aviva took down the number incorrectly and subsequently 
told Miss A it didnt recognise the number she called, and it wasnt a valid number. 
Miss A asked to speak to a manager and was informed shed receive a call-back within 48 
working hours. When she didnt hear back within this timescale, Miss A rang Aviva and was 
advised a manager would call her back the next day. A manager called Miss A the following 
day and explained the claim outcome was correct. He offered £20 as a goodwill gesture for 
being unable to locate the call where Miss A might have been misinformed. But Miss A 
turned it down and referred the matter to our service. She also complained about the service 
she and Mr C received from Aviva.
Our investigator was satisfied the claim had been fairly declined as Mr C wasnt the legal 
and contractual owner of the phone. He thought Aviva had made a few mistakes but was 
mindful the outcome of the claim would have remained unchanged even if it had searched 
for the call using the correct number and had been able to listen to it. The investigator 
explained he could only consider the impact of Avivas mistakes on Mr C and thought the 
compensation Aviva had already offered fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience 
experienced by him.
Miss A didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. She feels the policy terms arent specific enough. She also feels £20 isnt a fair 
reflection of the impact of Avivas mistakes as she had to spend a lot of time on the phone to 
Aviva while on holiday. She says she and Mr C couldnt relax and go in the sea together as 
she had to keep a constant watch over her phone as she was awaiting a call-back from a 
manager. Miss A considers £100 compensation to be an appropriate amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for any complaint about a declined insurance claim is the agreement 
between Mr C and Aviva  the policy terms and conditions. 
Ive seen a copy of the terms and conditions applicable at the time of the claim. On page 2, 
they state:
4. Your Cover  what you need to know
This cover is for the phones you own (including phone contracts where you will 
become the owner at the end of the contract, or where you are responsible for any 
damage to the phone). 
So, for Mr Cs claim to be covered, he either needed to have (i) owned it, (ii) become the 
owner at the end of a phone contract, or (iii) leased it (which meant the phone was returned 
to the lease provider at the end of the contract but he remained responsible for any damage 
for the duration of it). I know Miss A feels the terms arent specific enough but, in this 
instance, I consider the policy wording is sufficiently clear in setting out the scenarios under 
which cover is provided.
The phone Mr C had stolen from him wasnt purchased outright. It wasnt leased from a 
lease provider either. Mr Cs told us it was obtained on a phone contract. But it wasnt in his 
name, meaning Mr C wouldnt have become the owner at the end of the phone contract.
I accept a crime has undoubtedly been committed here, and I sympathise with the distress 
this must have caused Mr C. But as the phone he submitted a claim for didnt meet the 
above criteria, Im satisfied it wasnt covered under the policy. Accordingly, I dont find Aviva 
acted unfairly, unreasonably or contrary to the policy terms when declining Mr Cs claim.
Ive next considered what Miss A has said about Avivas service failings. I think its important 
to note I can make awards for complainants. In this case, while Miss A is bringing the 
complaint, Mr C is the complainant as hes the customer of Aviva. While I recognise Miss A 
has spent time overseeing the matter, I need to think about how Mr C has been impacted by 
Avivas actions.
I think Miss As frustrations surrounding the dispute over the phone call would have in turn 
caused Mr C some distress. But Im also mindful by the time a complaint was made about 
what Miss A had been told previously, Aviva had already informed Mr C of its decision to 
decline his claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. So, whether the call happened 
and whether Miss A was misinformed wouldnt have changed its decision to decline Mr Cs 
claim. 
I accept Mr Cs expectations were raised in the short period of a few hours between the 
phone call and the claim being turned down. And I acknowledge pursuing the matter further 
is likely to have had some impact on Mr C, especially as he and Miss A were on holiday. 
Complaint handling, of itself, isnt something we investigate as it isnt a regulated activity. But 
in as far as is relevant to Mr Cs claim, I think £20 Avivas already offered is in the region of 
what Id have considered asking it to pay if the offer hadnt been made. In the circumstances, 
I consider it to be fair compensation.I realise Mr C and Miss A are likely to be disappointed with my findings. But for the reasons 
given, I dont consider the impact of Avivas mistakes is such that it needs to pay Mr C any 
more compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is Aviva Insurance Limited has already fairly 
resolved this complaint. I require it to pay Mr C £20 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman