DRN-3016460
The complaint
Mr K complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
These are the main details of a loan Everyday Loans provided to Mr K: 
Date 
takenAmount Term Contractual 
monthly 
repayment 
dueActual 
monthly 
repayment 
set up Date 
repaid
19/07/2019 £3,000 18
months£278.62 £359 13/12/2019
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Mr K with the loan and she asked Everyday Loans to put things right. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr K would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did Everyday 
Loans make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr K 
irresponsibly. The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or 
affordability check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Everyday Loans had to 
think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr K.
Everyday Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr K would be able repay his loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Everyday 
Loans had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, 
the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts and the borrowers overall financial 
circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Everyday Loans was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loan  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case.
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Everyday Loans asked Mr K for information about his income and expenditure and it also 
obtained a credit report and reviewed bank statements from Mr K and used statistical 
information to help build a detailed picture of Mr Ks financial situation. Everyday Loans 
calculated his monthly payments to outstanding creditors and allowed a buffer to take into 
account fluctuations in income or spending. The figures it worked out showed Mr Ks monthly 
spending on his financial commitments and regular living expenses would be around £1,821. 
So Everyday Loans concluded that he should still have had disposable income of around 
£58 after taking into account his repayment on this loan. 
From what Ive seen, I think the checks that Everyday Loans carried out before it agreed to 
lend to Mr K were, broadly speaking, reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances. 
However, I dont think that Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision on this occasion.
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans said its affordability calculations were more than 
conservative as, right from the start, Mr K was able to pay around £80 extra towards the loan 
- which was more than the amount of disposable income it had calculated. And I can see 
that Mr K appears to have made regular overpayments leading to the loan being paid in full 
within just 5 months. 
Everyday Loans felt this showed that its loan enabled Mr K to take charge of his lending. 
But whilst I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, this doesnt 
affect my view overall. Everyday Loans was aware that Mr Ks take home pay from both his jobs was 
approximately £2,158. Looking at the creditor repayments Everyday Loans recorded 
after reviewing the information it had gathered, this appears to show that he was 
spending around £841 each month on credit. After taking out this loan and using it to 
repay the credit debts Mr K told Everyday Loans it was intended to clear, Mr K would 
be replacing payments of £292 and £12.39 with a single new monthly repayment for 
this loan of £278.62. Whilst this reflected a monthly saving of around £26, it still meant 
that he would be spending approximately £814 each month on his credit commitments 
 around 38% of his income on servicing debt.
I think our adjudicator was right to point out that this was such a significant proportion 
of Mr Ks monthly income it couldnt reasonably say that it was likely that Mr K would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way.
I've also taken into account that this loan didnt significantly improve the amount of 
spare cash Mr K would have each month and I think Everyday Loans was able to see 
that he had been struggling to manage his money.
The information Everyday Loans saw on Mr Ks credit report showed he was making 
payments to a debt collector, he had recently entered into an arrangement to pay on 
one account and he was in arrears on another loan. It was also evident that his credit 
cards were both close to their limit and Mr K hadnt made any significant inroads into 
reducing his card debt for many months. So it wouldnt have looked like the monthly 
saving Mr K would be making when he took out this new loan with Everyday Loans 
was going to be enough to enable Mr K to make any significant overall improvement in 
his financial situation. 
I think, taking all this into account, Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been 
aware that taking further, costly lending was unlikely to help Mr K and more likely to 
potentially increase his indebtedness over the longer term. 
I acknowledge that Mr K made significant overpayments on the loan right from the start  but 
its unclear where the money that enabled him to do this came from and it doesnt 
necessarily mean that the loan was sustainably affordable for him. To my mind, the point is 
that Everyday Loans cant have known that Mr K would be able to do this and the 
calculations it worked out and relied on didnt fairly support its lending decision. I think, in 
these circumstances, Everyday Loans should reasonably have concluded that it was not fair 
to lend to Mr K.
So, I am planning on upholding Mr Ks complaint that he should not have been given the 
loan.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr K in some other way. But taking everything into account, I dont 
think Everyday Loans should have agreed to provide the loan to Mr K. 
As Mr K has been further indebted with an expensive loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong. So, I think Everyday Loans needs to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from either party and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr K to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not 
have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr K shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed. Everyday Loans should: 
A) refund everything Mr K paid over the principal loan amount and repay this to Mr K 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled
B) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr K. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman