DRN-2046306
The complaint
Mr L complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim he made on a home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L held a home insurance policy with Ageas. His property was damaged following a water 
leak and he made a claim on the policy.
Ageas agreed to cover the claim but during the course of investigations into the damage, 
further leaks were discovered and had caused mould to develop in a bedroom. Surveyors 
were appointed to establish the extent of the repairs which were required and put together a 
schedule of works. Mr L arranged for contractors to provide quotes for these works, but was 
unable to get these as the contractors said that the schedule put together by the surveyors 
didnt include works which were necessary in order to properly repair the property.
Ageas agents asked for further information from Mr L about why further works beyond what 
was on the schedule were required. After ongoing contact between Ageas, its agents and Mr 
L, an expanded schedule including the further works which had been suggested by his 
contractors was agreed and the claim was settled.
Mr L complained to Ageas about the way the claim had been handled. He wasnt happy that 
the original schedule of work hadnt covered all of the necessary repairs, or that alternative 
accommodation hadnt been provided. Ageas said that while it thought it had dealt with the 
claim as it should have, it did think that its communications with Mr L could have been better 
and could have responded to his contact sooner. It paid £300 compensation to him to 
recognise the upset and inconvenience caused to him because of this.
As Mr L wasnt satisfied with this, he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
thought the compensation already paid recognised the inconvenience caused. Ageas had 
offered to provide alternative accommodation but Mr L had declined this, preferring to stay at 
the property while the works were carried out. She recognised that Ageas had paid a 
disruption allowance during that period. And she thought it was fair for Ageas to have 
queried whether the schedule of works should be expanded. 
Mr L didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He believes that Ageas 
surveyor didnt include the necessary repairs in the original schedule so that the amount 
Ageas would have to pay out was reduced. He also said that remaining in the property 
caused health problems.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The primary issue in dispute around the schedule of works was the extent to which a mastic 
asphalt dampproof membrane needed to be repaired or replaced. The original schedule of 
works indicated that this should be patched in areas where it was damaged. Mr L disputed 
this, and provided evidence from contractors that the whole membrane should be replaced. 
The whole membrane was replaced when the repairs were carried out, and this was covered 
by Ageas.
Mr L argues that the schedule of works should always have included the full replacement of 
the flooring membrane, rather than patching. I understand why hed say this, as contractors 
he asked to provide quotes for the works had indicated a full replacement was required. But 
Im not persuaded that Ageas and its agents acted unfairly when putting together the original 
schedule. I say this for a number of reasons.
The nature of a schedule of works is that, depending on the results of further investigations 
or information being received, amendments can be made to extend the scope of the repairs 
being carried out. I can see that Mr L was unable to find a contractor who would carry out the 
works as indicated on the original schedule. But I can also see that at no point did Ageas 
own contractors become involved in giving quotes for the works or assessing the suitability 
of the schedule of works, as Mr L had indicated hed prefer to use contractors hed found 
himself.
Where a dispute arises about the suitability of the original schedule of works, what Id expect 
to happen is for Ageas to have reviewed its position and, if necessary, amended the 
schedule. And thats what happened here. It asked for further information about why the full 
replacement was necessary, rather than patch repairs. Mr Ls original report was from a 
roofing company, albeit one that also specialises in mastic asphalt flooring installation and 
repair. But Ageas didnt consider that there was enough information within this report and it 
was agreed with Mr L that a more detailed report would be required. When this was 
provided, Ageas agreed to cover the full replacement of the membrane. I think its fair for 
Ageas to want clarity about why a more substantial repair was required above what its 
surveyor had originally suggested.
Mr L was also unhappy that Ageas hadnt covered alternative accommodation for him and 
his wife while the repair works were carried out, saying that he and his wife suffered health 
problems as a result of staying in the property. But the information available to me is that 
Ageas did offer Mr L alternative accommodation, but that this was declined by Mr L as he 
preferred to remain at the property. At one point, he and his wife did move out, and stayed 
with relatives. Ageas has paid a disruption allowance to them in recognition of this. Normally 
such an allowance would be paid to recognise that certain facilities arent available, rather 
than moving out and staying with relatives. So I dont think Ageas has acted unfairly by 
paying this here, or could have acted differently based on what Mr L was saying about 
staying at the property originally. 
This isnt to say that there were no issues with the way Ageas handled Mr Ls claim. I think 
that there were times when communication from Ageas and its agents with Mr L could have 
been clearer, particularly around obtaining and providing reports in relation to the flooring 
and membrane. At one point, Ageas said it would obtain a report from a certain supplier, but 
then changed its position due to the cost of getting the report. There were also delays after 
Mr L submitted invoices, and, I think a lack of urgency on the part of Ageas and its agents in 
reviewing these and making the necessary payments. These issues meant that Mr L was 
having to contact Ageas and its agents more than he should have been, and I acknowledge 
he was been upset by the lack of clear communication and progress with the claim. 
But  when Ageas reviewed Mr Ls complaint, it acknowledged that it could have handled 
aspects of his claim better, and paid £300 as compensation for this, in addition to the 
disruption allowance it had paid separately in respect of the accommodation. Im satisfied 
that the amount of compensation paid to date appropriately reflects the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr L.
My final decision
Its my final decision not tio uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman