DRN-4285925
Complaint
Mrs D has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mrs D with a loan for £1,300.00 in March 2022. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £107.04. One of our adjudicators reviewed what        
Mrs D and Likely Loans had told us. And she didnt recommend that Mrs Ds complaint be 
upheld. Mrs D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ds complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mrs D could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mrs Ds application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mrs D could 
afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Mrs D has said 
she was in financial difficulty and shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs D and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans has suggested it carried out credit searches 
which showed that Mrs D didnt have that much in the way of existing credit commitments 
and what she did have was relatively well maintained. It also obtained a recent payslip from 
Mrs D as well as a copy of a bank statement.
Its fair to say that Mrs D had had previous difficulties repaying credit in the form of a couple 
of defaults. However, these were historic. One of these had already been settled and the 
outstanding balance on the other one has been reduced by a third. Furthermore, Mrs Ds 
existing commitments at the time of this application were relatively well maintained. I accept 
that Mrs D appears to be suggesting that her actual circumstances may not have been fully 
reflected either in the information she provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. 
But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. Given the low amount borrowed, the low monthly payments  
and the lack of obvious indicators of current difficulties in the information obtained, I dont 
think that Likely Loans decision to lend was unreasonable. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mrs D - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And, in any event, Ive not been provided 
with anything else that suggests Likely Loans doing even more would have prevented it from 
lending either.
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mrs D unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with his loan. And Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mrs D. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Likely of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding balance on 
Mrs Ds loan and it be the case that she is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman