DRN-3645250
The complaint
Ms R complains about the advice that Lonsdale Services Ltd gave in relation to a pension 
drawdown strategy. She says shes now suffered a financial loss as shes paid more tax 
than she was expecting.
What happened
Ms R had several different pensions.
She initially approached Lonsdale for advice in 2015. According to a financial planning 
report that Lonsdale produced, Ms R had bought a property and intended to use some of 
her existing pension provision to fund the renovations. It noted that Ms R expected shed 
need to drawdown an income soon, with the likelihood being that shed deplete the fund 
over about a 24-month period as and when she required the funds. Ms R was employed 
at the time and also received income from self-employment.
Lonsdale noted that Ms Rs existing pensions didnt allow flexibility for income withdrawals 
without switching to an alternative product. So, it recommended she switch to a plan with 
a different provider. It also noted that Ms R understood (if she remained on her current 
level of income) shed be paying 40% tax on any additional income after shed taken a 
25% tax-free cash lump sum. Due to that, it said her intention was to try and keep any 
income she took within the 20% tax bracket. However, it noted that if she needed to take 
more income, she was comfortable with the fact that it may take her into the 40% tax 
bracket, as she had no other means of funding the renovations. Ms R didnt proceed at 
that time.
She again sought Lonsdales advice in 2018. Amongst the information Lonsdale noted was:
Ms R was retired and a non-tax payer. She intended to start the renovation 
of the property, so it could be used as a holiday let from 2020.
According to Ms Rs own calculations, she needed an overall amount from her 
pension of £150,000 including an initial tax-free lump sum of £25,000 and the 
balance of the tax-free cash (about £25,000 also) around October 2018. Shed be 
looking to draw down a regular monthly income of £6,500 from October 2018 to 
December 2019.
Once the renovation was complete, Ms Rs target annual income was £33,000. 
Thereafter, no further income would be required from the pension and it would 
leave a residual fund.
Her total investments were valued at £194,280.72.
Her assets were worth £410,000.
Her monthly net income from her state pension would be £780. Her expenditure 
was around £458.
She had savings of £1,200.
She wasnt able to fund the project through other means, such as securing credit.
Ms Rs attitude to risk was low to medium and she had low capacity for loss. 
Lonsdale noted that Ms R mainly wanted advice about the following:
Taking tax-free cash and a regular income for around 12-18 months to 
fund the conversion.
Ms R wanted to keep her pension arrangements in a tax efficient and flexible 
environment (so she didnt want to buy an annuity). Her future income needs 
could then be varied to reflect her changing needs and circumstances.
Lonsdale recommended, in a suitability report prepared in April 2018, that Ms R switch 
her pensions to a flexi drawdown personal pension with a provider Ill call R. It said that 
would allow her to withdraw her tax-free cash in two instalments - £25,000 immediately 
and the remainder in October 2018. Shed also be able to draw down an income of 
£6,500 a month net of tax from October 2018 to December 2019. Whilst invested, 
Ms Rs remaining fund would benefit from tax advantaged growth. It was to be invested 
in a portfolio, which had a low to medium risk rating and reflected Ms Rs attitude to risk.
Lonsdale also said under a heading Risk Warnings that by taking all of the pension 
benefits in one go, or in stages, may incur higher tax liability as a consequence and may 
also compromise future retirement income and state benefits entitlement.
Lonsdale completed a further suitability report in September 2018 focusing on 
similar objectives to those documented in April 2018. It noted that between now 
and December 2019 the conversion has to be completed.
It recommended Ms R draw benefits from her pension as follows:
A further tax-free cash lump sum of £23,855.08 (on top of the payment of 
£25,000 already taken).
From October 2018 to December 2019 income of £8,125 a month. Lonsdale 
pointed out that didnt equal Ms Rs stated requirement of a net figure of 
£100,000 (according to her own calculations) after the two tax free cash 
payments had been made.
It added that it does put your earnings in both tax years impacted in the higher 
rate as per the cashflow.
The balance of the funds that Ms R needed could be taken from the remaining 
pension funds.
In both suitability reports under the heading taxation Lonsdale said: Income Tax:
Personal Allowance - £11,850 rising by inflation 
Basic Rate  20% for £34,500 band rising by 
inflation Higher rate  40%.
In an email sent to Lonsdale in August 2019, Ms R said despite leaving some of her 
money invested in her pension, she needed all of it to fund the property conversion as 
the framework is proving to be much more expensive and she had unbudgeted costs 
and other changes to allow for. She asked Lonsdale if shed need to contact R directly 
to drawdown the remainder in the 2020/2021 tax year to reduce the tax liability. 
Lonsdale suggested that Ms R may deal with R directly if she was looking to withdraw 
the whole fund, but if only taking part I would guess they would require you to come 
via us. Lonsdale pointed out that as Ms R took the permitted tax-free cash earlier, all 
of the remaining fund would be liable for income tax. So, if she took it all in one go, the 
tax deducted would be high.
Ms R contacted Lonsdale and said that her pension provider, R, had paid out her 
pension to her completely when shed only expected to take an income drawdown until 
December 2019 to minimise any tax liability. As shed continued to receive an income drawdown until April 2020, shed paid a larger amount in tax due to her having been put 
into a higher tax bracket. She also mentioned that she was intending to draw down the 
balance of the pension, but not until the 2020/2021 tax year, in order to further 
maximise her tax benefits.
Ms R later complained to Lonsdale about the advice shed been given. There was 
apparently also a dispute about the amount Ms R wanted to draw down and the period 
over which that would happen. Ms R appeared to accept that her initial plan (as per her 
own calculations) was to take income of £6,500 a month between October 2018 and 
December 2019. But she says this was revised in discussion with Lonsdale to twelve 
monthly payments of £8,125 gross (£6,500 net) over two tax years. Ms R felt that would 
keep her within the lower tax band because her income after her personal allowance 
had been deducted would be less than £50,000 in any one tax year (total income of 
£58,110 less, according to Ms Rs figures, a personal allowance of £12,500 =£45,610, 
therefore keeping her within a basic tax band of £50,000).
Lonsdale upheld part of the complaint. It said that Ms Rs need for income of £6,500 a 
month between October 2018 and December 2019 was replicated in virtually every 
document it had. And that Ms Rs own spreadsheet showed a requirement for income 
of £150,000, which had to come from her pension plan as there were no other means 
to secure it. Lonsdale said it was unable to explain why Ms R now said she only 
wanted to draw down payments for six months and that the amount to be taken was a 
gross figure. However, Lonsdale said it wasnt able to query the amounts Ms Rs 
business needed and whether they were appropriate, nor could it advise on the rights 
and wrongs of running a lettings business. In fact, Lonsdale thought it was surprising 
that the amounts hadnt been queried earlier as it felt the withdrawal amounts 
probably needed to be higher at the outset given Ms Rs overall requirement to secure 
£150,000.
However, Lonsdale accepted that the intention was for payments to cease after 
December 2019 and that this hadnt been communicated to R, as its application form 
didnt allow for this. Also, it accepted the suitability letter should have made it clear that 
it was Ms Rs responsibility to stop income withdrawals after December 2019  not least 
because she hadnt signed up for an ongoing advice service.
Lonsdale felt that withdrawing the sums required by December 2019 would have 
made avoiding a 40% income tax deduction a challenge. However, it accepted that, 
with the benefit of hindsight, there was no requirement for Ms R to withdraw the 
amounts of income at the rates she thought shed need - not least due to delays on 
the build. And had those delays been known at the outset, it said it might have been 
possible to spread payments over a longer period to avoid Ms R paying higher rate 
tax. However, it thought that period was probably over about five years, which 
wouldnt have met Ms Rs initial requirements. Lonsdale agreed to refund the 
additional tax Ms R paid because payments hadnt stopped in December 2019 as 
expected. It also offered to make a goodwill payment of £348.24 (to round the overall 
payment up to £4,250).
Ms R wasnt happy with Lonsdales response, so she complained to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into the complaint and upheld it. He said:
Given what was noted in the various suitability reports and fact find, Lonsdale 
should have given an instruction to R about income payments ceasing in 
December 2019. As Lonsdale offered redress in connection with that, the 
investigator said he wouldnt be asking it to do anything else about that aspect.
Lonsdale acknowledged in the fact find that Ms R would become a higher rate 
tax payer if she withdrew £8,125 a month from October 2018. However, the 
investigator didnt think enough emphasis was placed on that in the April 2018 suitability report to ensure that Ms R was aware of the drawbacks. So, he didnt 
think Lonsdale had appropriately communicated the tax implications of Ms Rs 
objective.
Tax efficiency was clearly a key factor for Ms R. And he thought she would 
have chosen a more tax efficient path if shed been properly made aware of 
the tax implications.
The investigator recommended that Lonsdale contact Ms Rs accountant about the 
overpayment of tax between October 2018 and December 2019. And pay that amount 
to her together with interest.
Ms R accepted the investigators assessment, but Lonsdale didnt. Amongst its 
comments it said:
It had never argued that monthly payments should have stopped in December 
2019.
Its suitability report and cashflow model pointed out the tax implications.
With hindsight, if it had been told that the project had been delayed, it could 
have suggested that income payments were altered to reduce the amount of 
tax paid.
It was actually informed that the project was costing more money; but 
accepted that further payments could have been made in the following tax 
year.
There was no tax strategy possible to take pension income over three years 
other than the one attempted. For the tax strategy to be longer, Lonsdale 
would not have been able to meet Ms Rs objectives. And it felt that had the 
project been delivered on time, Ms R would have achieved her own objective 
and there would be no complaint.
The investigator considered Lonsdales comments. And whilst he accepted that 
Lonsdales advice was in line with Ms Rs objectives, he thought that if shed been 
advised differently about the tax implications, shed have altered the amount she wanted 
to draw down or taken it over a different period.
Lonsdale asked for an Ombudsman to consider the matter afresh, so its been passed to 
me to decide.
My provisional decision
I sent Ms R and Lonsdale my provisional decision on 19 July 2022. Ive included the main 
extracts in which I said:
...unless I receive other evidence or comments to cause me to change my mind, Im 
currently intending to reach a different outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why.
What was Lonsdale required to do?
There are a number of fundamental obligations on firms like Lonsdale. Those include 
the principles for businesses, which are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Handbook.
In addition, the regulator places other important responsibilities on financial firms. When it 
comes to a consumer switching their pension funds to a different arrangement, the firm 
would be expected to show overall that the switch was in the consumers best interests so 
as to make the advice suitable. Generally speaking, in a case such as this, Id take 
account of things such as (this is by no means an exhaustive list) why the consumer was 
looking to switch; whether their wants or needs were reasonable taking account of their circumstances at the time and whether they switched to an alternative pension that 
matched their attitude to risk. When it comes to a pension drawdown strategy, firms need 
to consider things such as the consumers income needs in retirement and whether 
drawing down regular income would leave enough to provide sufficient income in their 
retirement.
Amongst her concerns, Ms R doesnt believe that Lonsdales recommendation 
appropriately considered and advised on the tax implications of what she wanted to do. 
And shes gone as far as saying that Lonsdale didnt give her the opportunity to revise 
her plans so as to minimise her tax liability. As a consequence, Ms R says shes had to 
pay more tax than would otherwise have been the case and thats something she feels 
Lonsdale is responsible for.
Did Lonsdale give Ms R suitable advice?
Lonsdale accepted it hadnt advised Ms R of the need to cancel drawdown payments 
after December 2019. And it didnt think it unreasonable for her to assume thats what 
would happen. However, payments continued. And, according to Lonsdale, that meant 
Ms R incurred income tax at 40% on payments that would otherwise have attracted 20% 
income tax. Whilst Im intending to uphold that part of the complaint, I can see that 
Lonsdale has already offered to pay Ms R compensation of £4,250 in total to cover the 
financial loss she suffered including an additional goodwill payment of £348.24. I think 
Lonsdales response here is reasonable.
Whilst I accept that Ms R didnt want or need those extra payments, she has ultimately 
had the benefit of the money. And that would likely have incurred income tax. So, in the 
circumstances, it seems fair for Lonsdale to pay compensation of an amount equivalent to 
the extra tax that became due, together with an additional goodwill payment to recognise 
the inconvenience caused. Its not entirely clear if Ms R has since accepted that payment. 
But if not, Im intending to say that Lonsdale should now award that amount to Ms R.
Turning now to the key outstanding issues in relation to this complaint.
Ms R believes there were a number of errors with Lonsdales advice concerning the 
drawdown strategy. There also seems to be some dispute that Ms Rs main goal was to 
complete the renovations by December 2019, using the pension drawdown funds. Ms 
Rs indicated that her main objective when asking Lonsdale for advice was for it to give 
her a recommendation that enabled her to stay below the 40% tax bracket. And shes 
added that all discussions were about making sure the drawdown was done in the most 
tax efficient way.
In contrast, Lonsdale says Ms Rs need to draw down an income of around £6,500 a 
month between October 2018 and December 2019 was replicated in virtually every 
document it had. In other words, it seems to be saying that this was the overarching 
priority for Ms R.
Where theres a conflict, as there is here, I need to decide things on balance taking 
account of all of the evidence before me. And having thought carefully about Ms Rs 
comments, Im not persuaded by some of whats been suggested. Ill explain why.
I agree with Ms R to the extent that the evidence does show (even as early as 2015)  that 
she was concerned about keeping her tax liability to a minimum. But that also needed to 
be considered in the context of what she was trying to achieve. I can see she was working 
when she first asked Lonsdale for advice and was also in receipt of self-employed 
income. Lonsdale told her shed likely be paying 40% tax on any income she took once 
shed taken a 25% tax-free cash lump sum. Ms R didnt proceed with her plans at that 
time. And whilst not clear, her decision may well have been linked to the tax implications 
of what she wanted to do.
When she approached Lonsdale again in 2018, Ms R had retired and was due to receive a state pension. And its possible that this change in circumstances may, in part, 
have prompted Ms R to get in touch with Lonsdale again.
However, by the time shed contacted Lonsdale in 2018, Ms R had already drawn up a 
business plan setting out the amount of income she needed and over what period. And 
no doubt that was with her objective in mind of completing the renovation work and 
getting her holiday lettings business underway. I think Ms R was right to expect Lonsdale 
to consider the most tax efficient way of doing things, but I think it also needed to 
consider that against Ms Rs objectives and whether they could be achieved whilst 
keeping the tax liability to a minimum. I also agree that it needed to explain the tax 
implications of anything Ms R decided to do. However, Im not persuaded from the 
evidence Ive seen, that this means Ms Rs overarching objective was to agree a 
drawdown strategy that would ensure she remained below the 40% tax bracket.
I say that because had that been her primary objective, it seems unlikely that Ms R would 
have come to Lonsdale with a figure in mind whilst stating the period over which it needed 
to be drawn down. Instead, it seems more likely to me that, Ms R would have sought 
advice about the level of drawdown income that was likely to help her stay within the lower 
tax bracket, once her state pension had been factored in. And shed then have gone away 
and formed a business model around that  even if that meant it would take much longer 
to complete the renovation project. The fact she didnt suggests that time was of the 
essence for Ms R. And Im inclined to agree with Lonsdales point that drawing down 
smaller amounts over a longer period, whilst remaining in the lower tax bracket, may not 
have enabled Ms R to realise her objective in the period suggested.
It wasnt for Lonsdale to give Ms R accountancy advice  thats for an accountant to do. 
But it wasnt simply a case of it agreeing to transact for her either. Bearing in mind that 
shed already ruled out other ways of generating the income she needed (such as 
securing credit) and was looking to use her pension to fund the project, it was Lonsdales 
role to advise her about the feasibility of doing that. In doing so, it needed to bear in mind 
that Ms R was looking to draw down fairly sizeable amounts (relative to how long 
retirement income would typically be expected to last), so it needed to consider whether 
that was in her best interests when taking account of her objectives. Importantly, it also 
needed to make her aware of risks such as the knock-on tax implications.
So, thats the backdrop against which Ive considered whether Lonsdale gave Ms R 
suitable advice overall.
Lonsdale noted in the April 2018 suitability report that Ms Rs only source of income was 
her state pension. And whilst she had assets worth over £400,000, as I understand the 
position, those werent assets that could easily be relied upon if Ms Rs pension provision 
fell short. Thats because the figure included the value of the conversion property itself. 
But Lonsdale would also have been aware that, until renovated, the property probably 
couldnt achieve its full value.
Im satisfied from the suitability report that Lonsdale considered Ms Rs pension in the 
context of her overall assets and investments. And it was aware that according to her 
business plan, Ms R could potentially achieve income of around £33,000 a year by 
letting the property. According to Ms Rs testimony, other similar businesses in the 
area were successful and were presumably achieving similar returns.
As Ive indicated, Lonsdale needed to consider this in the context of the risk that Ms R 
could deplete her pension funds too early into her retirement and with little obvious 
means for her to replenish them. I can see that it considered the income that Ms R might 
eventually generate from her rental business along with the level of income that she 
thought she might need in retirement. And it concluded that Ms R wouldnt be able to 
generate the same level of income from her pensions, especially given her low to medium 
attitude to risk. I think that seems a reasonable conclusion to reach.Ms R had no other obvious means to realise the funds she needed. Her existing pensions 
didnt give her the flexibility of income drawdown. And she only had a relatively small 
amount of savings to support her retirement income. But, as Ive said, Lonsdale also knew 
that Ms R couldnt achieve the rental income expected until such time as the renovations 
were complete. And even allowing for the income drawdown needed to fund the project, 
Ms R was able to leave a proportion of her pension invested in funds suited to her attitude 
to risk and in a way that allowed for tax advantaged growth. So, this seems to meet Ms Rs 
objectives at least in part. And as Ms R also wanted to keep her pension arrangements in 
a flexible environment (so her future income needs could be varied to reflect her changing 
needs and circumstances) Lonsdales advice and recommendation seems to meet that 
need too.
Ms R said Lonsdale didnt advise her that the plan agreed was at risk of generating 40% 
tax on some of the income. She added that the drawdown figures discussed led her to 
believe that shed remain within the 20% tax band. Whereas she now knows that she 
should only have drawn down £34,500 a year (taking account of her state pension and 
personal allowance) to stay within the lower tax band.
Its difficult to see from the evidence I have how Ms R could have achieved her objectives 
whilst staying within a lower tax bracket. I say that because, realistically, the renovations 
would have taken a much longer time to complete if funded mainly from her pension 
drawdown. And that would have had a knock-on impact on when Ms R could start to 
generate rental income. I understand that despite drawing down the amounts suggested, 
the project was delayed. And, with hindsight, I accept that Ms R didnt ultimately need the 
amount of income she took. Had that not happened, she may well have been able to 
reduce her tax liability by taking payments over a longer period. But I dont think thats 
something that Lonsdale could necessarily have foreseen at the time.
I do think that Lonsdale could perhaps have made it crystal clear even earlier that Ms R 
would end up with a higher tax liability if she drew down the amounts expected over the 
period concerned. But for the reasons Ill go on to explain I dont agree that Ms R wasnt 
told of the risks concerning the amount of tax that might be payable.
In its April 2018 suitability report, Lonsdale noted under a heading Risk Warnings that 
by taking all of the pension benefits in one go, or in stages, may incur a higher tax liability 
as a consequence and may also compromise future retirement income and state benefit 
entitlement. It gave a similar warning with its September 2018 suitability report. However, 
in that report it did go as far as saying it does put your earnings in both tax years 
impacted in the higher rate as per the cashflow. So, I think that made the risks much 
clearer.
And in its 2018 fact find under the heading What are the tax consequences of taking 
pension benefits Lonsdale noted Basic rate tax  will become higher rate. The fact find 
is a note of the discussions between the adviser and the consumer. So, I think its 
reasonable to conclude that the likely tax implication was acknowledged or discussed to 
some degree.
Given all of these things together, I think Ms R would have been put on notice of the 
likelihood of becoming a higher rate tax-payer if she drew down her pension income in 
the amounts suggested. And, as I understand things, those amounts were put forward by 
Ms R rather than Lonsdale.
I wouldnt expect Ms R to be an expert in tax matters. But Lonsdale also said in 
both suitability reports under the heading taxation:
Income Tax:
Personal Allowance - £11,850 rising by inflation 
Basic Rate  20% for £34,500 band rising by inflation 
Higher rate  40%.
I think this ought to have given Ms R cause to think that would probably apply to her 
given the amounts she expected to draw down (a gross income of around £8,905 a 
month including her state pension). And she could also have sought specialist tax advice 
if she wasnt sure. Whilst I take Ms Rs point that as payments were drawn down on the 
first of each month that meant an extra payment being taken in the 2018/19 tax year, I 
dont think it would have made a difference overall. I think payments drawn down in each 
year were already likely to be above the threshold for basic rate tax, which in 2018 was 
£34,500.
So, this, when taken together with the other warnings Ive referred to, means Im 
satisfied that Lonsdale did make Ms R aware of the potential for increased tax 
liabilities. Further, it looks like Lonsdale sent the September 2018 suitability report to 
Ms R around 13 September 2018. So, had she been concerned at the time, I think 
there was probably an opportunity for Ms R to revise her business model and 
drawdown strategy before the first monthly payment was made in October 2018 if 
reducing her tax liability was her overarching objective. For the reasons Ive already 
set out, Im not persuaded it was. And Im mindful that drawing down smaller amounts 
over a potentially longer period wouldnt have enabled Ms R to complete the 
renovations by December 2019 (as expected at the time of the advice).
Taking account of everything Ive seen, Im currently satisfied that Lonsdales 
recommendation for Ms R to switch her pensions (to allow for a drawdown strategy) was 
suitable based on her circumstances and objectives at the time. Im also satisfied that 
Lonsdale appropriately advised her of the likely tax implications of doing so. Given that, I 
cant fairly say that Lonsdale was responsible for the losses that Ms R says shes suffered 
as a result of proceeding with the drawdown strategy.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lonsdale hasnt responded. 
Ms R sent me a copy of the income release form to R and has made detailed comments. 
Those include:
Lonsdales adviser made several administrative errors regarding her pension. 
These didnt become apparent until after most of it had been drawn down.
Her main objective in releasing her pension was to create a plan that was as tax 
efficient as possible. At no time did she say her objective was needing to release the 
money by a specific time. 
December 2019 is the erroneous date detailed on the forms to R that the Lonsdale 
adviser completed on her behalf. Ms R believes this was an invention by Lonsdale to 
mitigate their mistakes. Ms R believes that Lonsdale knew the refurbishment was a 
long-term project as her partner was doing most of the work in his downtime.
Ms R disputes that she went to Lonsdale with a business plan  she says it was 
completed with the advisers help to justify her actions in releasing the pension 
and to show how it would be used to contribute to her future income.
The £6,500 a month drawdown was suggested by the adviser as a gross figure 
(although she said that it made a mistake in later treating that as a net figure) and 
was to be drawn over 12 months across two tax years, with payments ending in 
September 2019. All of this was calculated to ensure Ms R didnt go into a higher 
tax bracket once her state pension and personal allowances were taken into 
account.
At no time did she state a need for a specific amount of money, nor were there any 
time constraints for releasing her pension.The reason for her leaving a residual amount in the pension was to ensure, again, 
that she didnt draw down too much in any one year. She says she contacted 
Lonsdale towards the end of the agreed drawdown period to ask for its advice on 
how to release the balance of her pension in a new financial year. Ms R says it was 
only at this point it became apparent to her that there was no money left in her 
pension pot. And it was then that she realised the drawdown amount had been 
higher than was agreed and the period over which it would be drawn down had 
been extended. Ms R says thats despite her having made it clear to Lonsdale at 
every interaction that it needed to make sure the pension release plan would keep 
her in the lower tax bracket. And that was always her intention and main objective. 
She adds why would anyone want to pay 40% tax if they can avoid it - especially 
as, unlike an employee, I can prevent this by spreading the drawdown over several 
tax years?. 
Ms R says there is nothing within her files that would clearly show the plan would 
put her into a higher tax bracket. She adds that she didnt pay too much attention to 
Lonsdales paperwork because she thought her objectives and instructions were 
clear. She also said she found Lonsdales paperwork impenetrable and 
overwhelming.
In summary, Ms R says I would not have gone with this plan if they had spelled out the 
higher rate tax implications. As far as I am concerned, this likelihood was not pointed out, 
explained or explicit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not intending to address each individual point that Ms Rs made. Instead, Ill mainly focus 
on those I see as being central to this complaint.
Im not persuaded by Ms Rs point that her plans were never time critical and that the 
December 2019 date was an invention by Lonsdale to mitigate its mistakes. December 
2019 is a date thats littered throughout the evidence and particularly in the suitability 
reports, including the one that Lonsdale drafted around April 2018. Bearing in mind that 
suitability reports are usually prepared following a fact find with a client, its reasonable to 
conclude that Lonsdale simply recorded the detail it was given. Lonsdale had nothing to gain 
from inventing this date. The only reason I can see for its inclusion was that this was the 
date that Ms R had told it she intended to complete the renovations by. And as Lonsdale 
included this date in its advice from the outset - even when Ms R didnt act on that advice in 
April 2018  I dont agree its something invented by Lonsdale in order to mitigate for any 
mistakes. Thats because, at that point Lonsdale couldnt have known that Ms R believed it 
had made mistakes.   
And in her later communication with Lonsdale (around July 2020) Ms R herself accepted that 
her original intention was to take an income of £6,500 until December 2019. So, I'm satisfied 
that Ms R did tell Lonsdale that she needed an income of £6,500 a month up until December 
2019 and that Lonsdale recorded this accurately and appropriately incorporated it into its 
advice.
However, Ms R seems to be suggesting now that it was only ever intended to be a gross 
figure. And that she wanted to take that amount over two tax years, beginning in October 
2018, as that would ensure she remained within the lower tax bracket. I cant say exactly what was and wasnt discussed at the time. But I'm satisfied that Ms R 
appears to be mistaken when saying that Lonsdale later (incorrectly) treated the £6,500 as a 
net figure. Thats because, in exchanges with Lonsdale in July 2020, she referred explicitly 
to expecting to receive six monthly drawdown payments in the 2018/19 tax year of £8,125, 
coming to a total of £48,750. So, given that Ms R herself said that she expected to receive 
£8,125 a month gross, I'm satisfied that she didnt imply or tell Lonsdale that she only 
needed £6,500 a month gross rather than net. And its notable that, in fact Ms R drew down 
exactly what she expected to in the 2018/19 tax year.
Ms R also says that she only wanted to take six monthly payments in the 2019/20 tax year. 
That is the period from April until September 2019. But, because of mistakes by Lonsdale, 
those drawdowns continued. As I've said above, there is clear evidence that Ms R had said  
she wanted her drawdown income to continue until December 2019. That said, there is 
some support for Ms Rs position that she wanted to take income (of £8,125 a month) over a 
12-month period. Thats because the income release form Lonsdale sent to R suggested an 
income of £97,500 should be drawn down, which would be achieved in 12 months by making 
a monthly drawdown of £8,125. But, the suitability report clearly said, from October 2018 to 
December 2019 income of £8,125 a month. 
So, while the income release form indicated a drawdown period of 12 months, the suitability 
report said that the period would be 15 months. Its apparent that Ms R didnt query this date 
at the time as, by her own admission, she didnt pay too much attention to Lonsdales 
paperwork as she felt her instructions were clear. But regardless of how clear Ms R thought 
her instructions to Lonsdale were, shed still be expected to check the details and to let 
Lonsdale know whether they reflected what was discussed. Ms Rs instructions to Lonsdale 
involved a considerable amount of money and there is always  in any transaction -  the 
possibility of an instruction or advice being misinterpreted or misunderstood, which is why its 
important for advising firms like Lonsdale to set out their advice in a manner thats clear, fair 
and not misleading. I think Lonsdale did that on this occasion. And, if there were mistakes or 
misunderstandings (other than the one that Lonsdale has already accepted), but Ms R didnt 
identify those because she didnt read the paperwork, I dont think thats something that 
Lonsdale could be held responsible for now. 
Having said that, even if Ms R had queried the dates at the time, it may not have made a 
difference in terms of whether the income fell within the lower or upper tax limits (although it 
obviously would have made a difference to the actual amount of tax due). I say that because 
Ms R is clearly under the impression (according to what she said in an email to Lonsdale 
around July 2020) that if she took an income of £8,125 a month (gross) over six months in 
each tax year, it would keep her within the lower tax bracket, because shed be earning less 
than £50,000 a year. But I dont think thats right. As I said in my provisional decision, in 
2018/19, the basic tax rate of 20% was on annual earnings above the pay as you earn 
(PAYE) tax threshold (which in 2018/19 was £11,850). So this meant that basic rate tax 
would be paid on any earnings above that amount up to £34,500. That means that higher 
rate income tax became payable once income went above £46,350 (£11,850 + £34,500). 
But, after factoring in Ms Rs income from her state pension, her income would still have 
gone into the higher income threshold. 
And Im satisfied that Lonsdale did try to spell that out to Ms R. It referred to taxable 
allowance rates in both of its suitability reports. And, in its September 2018 suitability 
report  it said explicitly it does put your earnings in both tax years impacted in the higher 
rate as per the cashflow.  So it did tell Ms R that the recommended drawdown strategy 
would move her into the higher rate tax bracket. And I dont think it would be Lonsdales 
fault if Ms R didnt pay attention to that in the paperwork. 
It seems to me that Ms Rs position is also influenced by an apparent misunderstanding  of how tax allowances work. In her July 2020 correspondence to Lonsdale Miss R set 
out what her income was for 2018/19 was and how the taxable allowance would affect 
that. She said:
Total income in this tax year @£58110 - less personal allowance £12500 = £45610 
keeping my annual income in the basic rate tax allowance of £50000
But thats not my understanding of how a tax personal allowance is applied. Its not a 
question of it being deducted from overall income. Rather, it just means that Ms R 
wouldnt pay tax on any amount up to that level. So, using Ms Rs figures (although it 
looks like the personal allowance in 2018/19 was £11,850 a year) shed have paid no 
tax on her first £12,500 of income. She would then pay 20% tax on any income from 
£12,501 up to £46,350 and 40% tax on income above that. 
So, while its now apparent that Ms R perhaps didnt have a clear understanding of how 
personal allowances work, given that Lonsdale did set these out in its suitability reports, 
and did tell Ms R that she would go into the higher tax bracket, I dont think Lonsdale is 
responsible for any misunderstanding that occurred.  
Overall, Im satisfied that Lonsdale did enough to let Ms R know that she was likely to move 
into the higher rate tax bracket. And if she was of the view that keeping her tax liabilities low 
was her overwhelming priority, there would have been an opportunity to have flagged this 
with Lonsdale sooner because the income drawdown didnt take effect until October 2018. 
And, again, whilst Ms R seems to be saying that she didnt pay particularly close attention to 
the information Lonsdale sent her, it wouldnt be fair to say thats something that Lonsdale 
should be held responsible for now. 
For all of these reasons, Im not minded to change what I said in my provisional decision. 
That said, Lonsdale accepts that it did make a mistake in failing to stop payments after 
December 2019. So, Ive set out below what it needs to do to put that right now. 
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. 
I direct Lonsdale Services Ltd to pay Ms R the £4,250 it previously offered (if it hasnt 
already done so). This recognises the additional tax that became due as a result of 
Lonsdales failure to stop drawdown payments when expected. The payment also includes a 
goodwill payment in respect of Lonsdales error. Im satisfied that recognises the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Ms R. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman