DRN-3242048
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice and customer service he received from British Gas 
Insurance Limited when there was a problem with his boiler. And that he was told there 
would be no charge for repairs when the problem with his boiler wasnt covered by his policy.
What happened
Mr C has a HomeCare Four policy with British Gas for a rental property he owns. The policy 
provides cover for servicing and repairs for his boiler, boiler controls and central heating. It 
also covers plumbing, drains and home electric repairs. 
In July 2020 Mr Cs tenants reported an unpleasant smell in the house. Mr C says that this 
happened after British Gas had dealt with an earlier leak in the bathroom under his policy. 
Mr C says that British Gas sent multiple engineers out to investigate the cause of the 
problem. But the cause of the smell, an incorrectly installed condensate pipe, wasnt found 
until December 2020. In this time Mr C says his tenants became increasing frustrated and 
annoyed, eventually complaining to the Council, who sent him an enforcement letter. And Mr 
C says the tenants withheld rent and eventually left the property.
Mr C says he was given different advice about the cause of the problem by the multiple 
engineers who attended. And one of them told him that because of the delays and 
inconvenience hed experienced he wouldnt be charged for correcting the installation issues 
with his boilers condensate pipe.
The work to re-route the condensate pipe was completed by British Gas on 5 January 2021. 
And they billed Mr C for this work, which they say hed been told wasnt covered by his policy 
as it was an installation fault.
Mr C complained to British Gas, but they didnt uphold his complaint. They said their 
engineers had made multiple visits to his property and hed been told in September 2020 
that the problem was due to an installation issue and wasnt covered by his policy. And they 
werent prepared to cover the cost as a gesture of goodwill, as hed suggested, as hed been 
told more than once about the installation issue, and that this needed to be resolved.
Mr C wasnt happy and complained to our service. Our investigator considered what Mr C 
had said about being given the wrong advice by British Gas. He said that the system notes 
British Gas had provided showed that Mr C was told on 10 September 2020 that the 
condensate pipe had been poorly installed and needed to be moved, and this work would be 
chargeable. And they called Mr C on 16 September 2020 repeating this advice.
British Gas visited the property on 28 October 2020 to adjust and bleed the radiators. The 
notes from this visit state that the issue with the condensate pipe still hadnt been fixed and it 
needed upgrading. On 5 November 2020 British Gas quoted for digging up the condensate 
pipe and placing it in the correct position so there wouldnt be a smell.
Mr C said that the work to fix the condensate pipe should be covered by his policy, as British 
Gas had done work on it. Our investigator considered the system notes going back to 
December 2016 and couldnt find any record of work on the condensate pipe. And he said 
Mr Cs policy didnt cover him for faults which existed before he took out his cover, or cover 
repairs theyd told him about which he hadnt fixed. So our investigator was satisfied that that 
the fault with the boiler was pre-existing from when the boiler was first installed, and wasnt 
covered by Mr Cs policy. 
Our investigator said there wasnt any record of which engineer told Mr C he wouldnt have 
to pay for the repairs. Mr C told us that this was during a call on 24 December 2020. British 
Gas couldnt provide this call due to the time that had passed. But from the evidence hed 
seen our investigator was satisfied that Mr C was told twice in September 2020 that the work 
would be chargeable and wasnt covered by his policy. British Gas had apologised for any 
inconvenience caused by their engineers advice and our investigator thought this was 
enough.
Our investigator also considered what Mr C had said about delays in resolving the problem 
causing a dispute with his tenants over rent. He said that the tenants first reported the smell 
in July 2020. By 10 September 2020 British Gas had identified the cause of the smell. He 
accepted that it would have been frustrating for Mr C while British Gas were trying to find the 
cause of the smell. But he didnt think that two months was an unreasonable timescale, 
particularly as theyd investigated Mr C drains as a potential cause of the problem in this 
period as well.
And as Mr C was told twice in September 2020 what the cause of the smell was, and could 
have agreed then to pay to have it resolved, our investigator didnt agree that British Gas 
were to blame for the problems Mr C had with his tenants.
Finally, our investigator said that he couldnt consider how British Gas had handled Mr Cs 
complaint as this wasnt a financial activity which comes within our jurisdiction.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy doesnt cover him for pre-existing faults. This is clearly set out in the 
Insurance Product Information Document he received from British Gas. Ive considered the 
system notes British Gas have provided about Mr Cs property and I cant find any record of 
them carrying out work on the condensate pipe before Mr Cs tenants reported the smell in 
July 2020.
After Mr C contacted British Gas in July 2020, I accept that a number of engineers attended 
his property before the cause of the smell was identified. His drains were also investigated to 
see if these were the cause of the problem. But by 10 September 2020 British Gas had 
identified the cause of the problem as an incorrectly installed condensate pipe. They told Mr 
C then what work needed to be done to fix the problem and that this wasnt covered by his 
policy.
I dont think that two months was an unreasonable time for British Gas to find the cause of 
the smell. Although I accept that this would have been inconvenient and frustrating for Mr C 
and his tenants. 
Im not persuaded that British Gas were responsible for the problem not being resolved until 
December 2020, or for the problems Mr C had with his tenants. Theres no evidence that British Gas had previously done any work on the condensate pipe. The problem was a result 
of an installation issue and it existed before Mr C took out his cover. So its not covered, 
even if the problem only arose after his cover had been in place for some time.
Once Mr C had been advised of the cause of the problem, and that it wasnt covered by his 
policy, he could have arranged for the work to be carried out, but he didnt. I dont accept 
what Mr C has told us, that he wasnt advised of the cause of the problem until December 
2020. I think its clear that he was. And after this British Gas provided a quote for the work 
that was needed.
British Gas have no record of any of their engineers telling Mr C he wouldnt be charged for 
the work. Hes told us that this was said during a call on 24 December 2020. Due to the time 
that has passed British Gas havent been able to provide a copy of that call. But even if Mr C 
is correct and he was told this, the work isnt covered by his policy and hed already been 
told this. And we wouldnt tell British Gas to pay for something that wasnt covered simply 
because theyd made a mistake. British Gas apologised for any inconvenience Mr C 
experienced, and I think this is enough.
The necessary work on the condensate pipe was completed in January 2021 and Mr C was 
billed for this. Hed been told in September 2020 that this work would be chargeable. So I 
dont think British Gas have done anything wrong and I wont be asking them to take any 
action.
The issues that Mr C has raised about how British Gas dealt with his complaint arent within 
our jurisdiction, so I cant consider them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about 
British Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman