DRN-4285393
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC placed an adverse fraud marker against his 
name unfairly.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive only summarised 
them briefly below.
Mr D held a bank account with Barclays. In August 2022, Mr D received two payments into 
his account totalling £5,000 which were withdrawn soon after.
Later, Barclays received a report from the sending bank letting it know that the £5,000 
originated from the proceeds of crime. It provided information to Barclays regarding a fraud 
that had been committed against its customer.
Barclays placed blocks on Mr Ds account and carried out a review. As a result of this, it took 
the decision to close Mr Ds account immediately and loaded a fraud marker against his 
name on the Cifas and National Hunter databases.
Mr D, unhappy with Barclays actions, made a complaint. Barclays contacted Mr D and 
asked him to account for the funds that had passed through his account. Mr D told Barclays 
that hed been looking to obtain a loan to pay off other debts and was referred to a third-
party by a friend. This individual agreed to provide the loan and paid it into Mr Ds account.
Barclays considered Mr Ds testimony but felt it had placed the markers fairly. So, Mr D 
referred his complaint to our service as he remained unhappy.
An Adjudicator considered the evidence and testimony provided by both parties but 
concluded that the fraud markers applied were fair. Broadly, they pointed out that Mr Ds 
testimony had been inconsistent and that no evidence existed to support his claim that the 
funds were received from what he believed to be a legitimate loan.
Mr D disagreed. While he admitted he had made an error in judgement, he felt the marker 
was unfair considering he is, and was, no risk to the banks.
As Mr D disagreed with the Adjudicators assessment, the matter has now been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the relevant considerations here is set out by Cifas: the fraud marker database 
controller. In its Handbookwhich members must adhere to when loading markersit 
sets out the burden of proof the member must meet. The relevant standards applicable to 
this complaint are:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted.
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
These standards mean that Barclays must have more than mere suspicion when loading a 
marker against a persons name. It must have strong evidence to support that a financial 
crime has been committed or attempted and that the person to whom they are loading the 
marker against is more than likely to have had witting involvement.
Im satisfied that the first of the above two standards has been evidenced here. Barclays has 
provided conclusive evidence it received a report from a third-party bank informing it that the 
funds paid into Mr Ds account originated from a fraud against its account holder. Therefore, 
Im satisfied that Barclays did have reasonable ground to believe a fraud had been 
committed.
Moving onto the second standard. Barclays were made aware in 2020 that Cifas updated its 
guidance on how to deal with customers suspected of laundering the proceeds of crime 
through their account. This guidance set out that, as of June 2020, Cifas members were 
expected to contact its customer via two methods of communication to give that customer a 
chance to explain the activity on their account. This was introduced to ensure customers that 
were unwitting or victims of fraud themselves werent loaded to the database unfairly. 
Here, Ive not seen evidence that that Barclays did carry out a thorough investigation until 
Mr D raised a complaint about its decision to load the marker. I can see that its sent a letter 
to Mr D asking him to get in touch, but didnt attempt to contact him via any other method. 
While Barclays hasnt carried out a review in line with the guidance set out by Cifas, Ive 
considered the evidence that has now been provided to ensure the loading currently against 
Mr Ds name is fair or not.
Mr Ds testimony throughout Barclays and our services investigation has been inconsistent. 
The reasons for the payment have changed over time and Mr D has recently disclosed that 
the payment was in fact for gambling rather than to pay off some of his existing debts. Hes 
also been inconsistent with some of the details of the people who provided, and referred him 
to, the loan.
While I dont intend these comments to suggest Mr D has been dishonestas he may have 
merely been experiencing a particularly turbulent and difficult period in his lifeit does 
impact the reliability of the information hes provided. 
This lack of reliability is also compounded by the fact that Mr D has been unable to furnish 
either Barclays or our service with evidence to support his testimony. Hes been unable to 
provide any correspondence between him and the loan provider. He says that this was due 
to all conversations being carried out over the telephone, but Im not persuaded that a loan 
agreement could have been reached without any formal written agreement, messages 
providing banking information or confirmation of payments being carried out.
I also find that Mr D ignored some of the red flags that were presented to him as part of the 
payment process. The payments into his account were made from an account not in the 
name of the person he says provided the loan. The payments were made in two batches 
rather than one and the payment provided a reference relating to a motor vehicle rather than 
for a loan. Mr D should have picked up on some of these inconsistencies and questioned 
them further before spending the funds.
My role is not to accuse Mr D of any wrongdoing here. Im merely making the above assessment to establish if Barclays has sufficiently demonstrated its met the burden of proof 
set out by Cifas to load the marker against him. And when considering the inconsistency in 
the testimony, the lack of evidence to support the loan and the red flags that were presented 
as part of the payment process, I find that it has. This, in my view equates to more than mere 
suspicion or concern and I therefore find that the marker was loaded fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman