DRN-3403074
The complaint
Mr B complains that esure Insurance Limited provided him with poor service and unfairly 
settled what he sees as fraudulent claims against his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B parked his car close behind a stationary vehicle next to a shop in September 2019. He 
said their number plates touched. He then went into the shop, where he noted that another 
customer (Mr A) was making a call. Mr A left the shop, only to return a short time later to 
say Mr B had damaged his vehicle. Mr B went outside to inspect. A passenger (Mr A2) 
emerged from the vehicle and accused him of hitting it when he parked. All the parties 
present (including the shop owner, Mr C) agreed that there was no visible damage.
 
Mr B heard nothing further about the incident, as expected, but when he called esure in 
January 2021 about another matter, he was told there was an ongoing claim. It was later 
settled for £2,694, based on the personal injuries claimed by Mr A and Mr A2  although 
there was no claim for damage to their vehicle. Mr B was unhappy about the payment, by 
not being updated by esure and by the fact that his witness (Mr C) wasnt contacted.
esure paid Mr B £100 compensation for not updating him. It said it hadnt contacted Mr C for 
a witness statement as Mr B knew him. esure said Mr B had said his car touched the other 
vehicle and also that there were two people in it at the time. It said hed later told esure that 
there was no contact with the other vehicle, yet an independent engineer had found minor 
damage to the front of Mr Bs car (which Mr B said was pre-existing). esure said it had 
rejected the personal injury claims from Mr A and Mr A2and had made a drop hands offer to 
settle the matter, thereby making savings on a potential court case. It said Mr Bs no claims 
discount (NCD) was unaffected, but that a fault claim had been recorded on his policy. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. He thought esure had acted fairly - 
given the discrepancies in Mr Bs account - and that it had compensated him adequately for 
its lack of updates. He thought esure had tried to avoid a court hearing, where both personal 
injury claims may have been upheld. Mr B said hed been told that a sum had been paid for 
the personal injury claims anyway, despite the fact that hed told esure that only one person 
(Mr A2) could have been in the other vehicle when he parked. He also said Mr C wasnt a 
friend, just a local shop keeper known to everyone in the area.
   
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision partly upholding the complaint as follows: 
The policy allows esure to decide how to settle any claim. We only intervene if we think an 
insurer has acted unreasonably in exercising its discretion. As part of our review, we 
consider whether the insurer carried out a full investigation into the circumstances of the 
claim before making a decision.
I think its clear from the correspondence and notes on the file and the calls between esures 
advisors and Mr B that esure was sceptical about the personal injury claims from the start. 
There was no damage to Mr As vehicle  but Mr B  had confirmed that there was contact 
between it and his car - and some slight damage was found on the front of his car. In these 
circumstances, I think its possible that someone sitting in Mr As vehicle when Mr B parked 
his car may have sustained an injury, even though it seems very unlikely. Mr B confirmed 
that Mr A2 got out of the other vehicle  although not at the time of the accident. And Mr A2 
was able to produce medical evidence of his alleged injury.
I think it was reasonable for esure to conclude in these circumstances that the best and most 
economical way to deal with Mr A2s claim (even if it thought it was fraudulent) would be to 
settle it and to avoid the cost of court proceedings. We think thats fair if an insurer thinks it 
might not be able to defend a claim successfully. It doesnt mean esure disbelieved Mr B or 
that it ceased to think the claim may be false or exaggerated. But it had to consider what 
was likely to happen in court should proceedings be taken. 
 
Had a payment been made in relation to Mr A2s claim, then even if Mr As claim was 
rejected, a fault claim would still have been recorded against Mr B, as esure had made a 
payment. A fault claim normally leads to an increase in premiums. But a payment was made 
for Mr As claim too. I can see why Mr B would have been particularly upset about that. 
Mr B had told esure that Mr A was in the shop when he entered it immediately after parking. 
If thats the case, Mr A couldnt possibly have been injured. Mr B gave esure the details for 
Mr C - and one of esures advisors said hed be contacted. esure says that didnt happen 
because Mr C didnt see Mr B parking his vehicle. It concluded that he could have no other 
useful information to give esure. But I dont think that was reasonable.
In my opinion, Mr C should have been contacted. Although he was known to Mr B, it seems 
their relationship was only that of retailer and customer (whereas Mr A and Mr A2 are 
related). Mr C could have confirmed whether Mr A was in his shop when Mr B arrived at the 
location. If hed done that, I dont think esure would have settled Mr As claim, as it would 
have had evidence to put to his representatives of his account of events being false. 
Its possible that Mr C would not have confirmed Mr Bs account, but he wasnt given the 
chance either way. I think that was poor service on esures part and contributed significantly 
to the frustration, upset and anger felt by Mr B about the way the claim was handled. 
esure says Mr B gave it different accounts of how many people were in the other vehicle. I 
think any discrepancy on this point is likely to have been cleared up by contacting Mr C. And 
I think esure could have clarified the discrepancies by asking Mr B about them. It seems 
there were two people travelling in the other vehicle, which may explain why Mr B said there 
were two people in it. But Mr B has always said that one of them was in the shop at the time 
of the accident. Mr B wasnt even aware that a passenger was in the vehicle at that point. I 
think he could have explained the situation to esures satisfaction if challenged.
esure recognised that it had provided poor service to Mr B in relation to its poor contact with 
him and its lack of updates. I think the £100 it paid him for that was reasonable. But in my 
opinion, it would be fair for esure to pay Mr B a further £200 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience as a result of not having contacted his witness. Had it done so, the outcome 
may have been different. And regardless of the outcome, I think Mr B would have faced 
much less upset. Mr B isnt looking for compensation. His aim has always been to show that 
the claims made by Mr A and Mr A2 were fraudulent. But I think Bs service was lacking, and 
in my opinion compensation for that is appropriate.  
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Neither esure nor Mr B did so.   What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party commented on my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr B a further £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience (£300 in total).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman