DRN-3793935
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Banking Group Plc, trading as Lloyds Bank, will not refund him 
the money he was charged to repair a clutch on a rental car.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr F used his Lloyds credit card to hire a car, whilst abroad. He paid 
£172.26 to hire the car for six days. Mr F says on the fourth day he experienced problems 
with the clutch. The car hire company agreed to give him a replacement car but said he 
would need to pay for the cost of the clutch repair. Mr F says he initially refused to pay this 
but said the car rental company got the local police involved. In the circumstances, Mr F said 
he felt pressurised to make the £169.23 payment. Mr F paid £65 to hire a car elsewhere for 
the remaining rental period. Mr F says he was told by another rental company that he should 
not have been responsible for the cost of the clutch repair. Mr F wants Lloyds to refund him 
the cost of the repair.
Mr F disputed the transaction with Lloyds, it rejected his claim. It said Mr F didnt have a 
valid chargeback claim under Mastercard rules, as he processed the payment by entering 
his personal identification number (PIN), so it wasnt a fraudulent transaction. It also said Mr 
F hadnt provided any evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation for a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mr F complained to Lloyds, it reviewed 
his claim and maintained it hadnt done anything wrong.
Unhappy with this outcome Mr F brought his complaint to our service. But our investigator 
didnt think it could ask Lloyds to do anything more. He didnt think Mr F had raised a dispute 
with Lloyds about the £65 cost of hiring another rental car. He also said Lloyds were not 
obliged to carry out a chargeback in the circumstances, as the transaction for the repair was 
verified by Mr Fs PIN. And he didnt think Mr F had provided enough evidence to show that 
there had been either a breach of contract or misrepresentation for a successful section 75 
claim. 
Mr F said he wasnt claiming for the £65 additional rental costs but wants Lloyds to refund 
him the costs of the clutch repair, on the basis that the transaction was fraudulent. He asked 
for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr F asked Lloyds to refund the money that had been charged to his account, there 
were two possible avenues open to it  chargeback, and section 75.
Chargeback
There is no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. But if the right 
to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules  and if there is a 
reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to be good practice for a chargeback claim to 
be made. The chargeback rules are clear, and they require a valid chargeback reason to 
raise a claim.
Mr F says he felt pressurised to make the £169.23 repair payment and later learned from 
another rental company, that he should not have been responsible for the cost of the clutch 
repair. Mr F says the transaction was fraudulent.
Lloyds position is it didnt submit a chargeback because Mr F verified the transaction by 
entering his PIN, so it cant be treated as a an unauthorised or fraudulent transaction under 
the chargeback rules.  Mr F was aware of the transaction taking place, he used his card and 
entered his PIN to pay for the repair. So, the transaction doesnt fit under any of the 
Mastercard fraud or any other chargeback reasons, so whilst I can see how frustrating this is 
for Mr F, the rules only permit chargebacks for specific reasons. In the circumstances, I 
cannot fairly say Lloyds should have progressed a chargeback on Mr Fs behalf, as there 
was no valid chargeback reason. 
Section 75
Section 75 provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has
an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or
misrepresentation, by the supplier of goods or services. For Mr Fs section 75 claim to be 
successful he would need to evidence that there was a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by the car rental company.
It is not my role to determine the outcome of a section 75 claim, that is something Lloyds has 
considered. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Fs 
complaint to do this, I have to take into account the relevant law, which includes section 75 
and consider the evidence Mr F provided to Lloyds in support of his claim.
 
Lloyds said it rejected Mr Fs section 75 claim because he hadnt provided any evidence to 
show there was either a breach or misrepresentation by the car rental company.
Mr F provided a copy of a receipt dated 2 February 2022, a car rental booking form and the 
car rental companys terms and conditions (in Portuguese), to Lloyds for its consideration. 
Mr F says that he was pressurised to pay £169.23 for a clutch repair, but the receipt doesnt 
indicate the payment amount or describe what the payment was for. Ive not seen any other 
evidence to indicate what the payment was for or anything to show the car rental company 
was not in their rights to apply the charge. Neither has Mr F provided any evidence to show 
that he didnt get a hired car for the period shown in the booking form. So, Im not persuaded 
there was any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the car rental company. 
Im not saying I disbelieve Mr F or that he hasnt lost out here, but Im unable to conclude 
that Lloyds acted unreasonably in rejecting his section 75 claim, due to the lack of 
supporting evidence of either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the car rental 
company.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Karen Dennis-BarryOmbudsman