DRN-3721243
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont contribute to the cost of a new device to 
use their updated Barclays application (app).
What happened
Mr B uses the Barclays app on his device. Barclays told Mr B that he needed to update the 
software for the app, but he says he was informed that some of the features wouldnt work 
on his device, so he bought a new one which cost him over £300. Mr B says it later 
transpired that he didnt need the new device, and he was unable to return it and get a 
refund as he had started using it. Mr B made a complaint to Barclays.
Barclays did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. They said the alert they sent mentioned hed need 
to update his mobile or gadgets to IOS 13 or above in order to use the Barclays app. If he 
was unable to update his device for various reasons, then he would be able to continue to 
use their online banking. Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said there was no mention in Barclays 
alert of the need to purchase a new device. He said Barclays explained that in the event Mr 
B couldnt update his device, then he would need to use online banking to manage his 
account. There were reasonable alternatives provided by Barclays in the event his old 
device couldnt be updated to the latest software without the need to purchase a new device.
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he wouldnt bank online due to being potentially exposed to viruses. He 
said their alert caused concern and confusion, which they have admitted on phone calls hes 
had with them. He said he can still use the original device now, so there was no need to 
send the message out. He said Barclays first response was to tell him he had been tricked 
by scammers. He said their latest notification says you can still use IOS12.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of points to this service and Barclays and Ive considered and read 
everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal 
body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
While Barclays may have initially misunderstood Mr Bs complaint and may have told him 
this was a scam, this was corrected, and the alert was genuine. Ive considered the wording 
of the alert Barclays sent Mr B. This read From May 2022, you'll need to have IOS13 or 
above running on your mobile device to use your app. It's easy to update to the latest 
version just go to Settings, General then Software Update. If for any reason you can't update 
your device, you'll need to use Online Banking to manage your account instead.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr B says that this message is confusing. Looking at 
the message, it clearly states he would need to have IOS 13 or above running on the device. 
As Mr B had IOS 12 then he would need to update this, but he has told us his device is an 
older device and it wouldnt be able to update to IOS 13. So the message also says if there 
is any reason he cant update the device  which in Mr Bs case he couldnt  then he would 
have to use online banking to manage his account instead. 
Mr B has detailed the reasons why he doesnt trust online banking. And it is his choice not to 
use online banking. But here, Barclays did make alternative ways for Mr B to manage his 
account. So Im not persuaded the message was misleading or would give Mr B the 
impression that he would have to buy a new device, despite him saying call handlers have 
told him that the message was confusing.
Ive considered what Mr B has said about their latest notification says you can still use 
IOS12, which proves his point that they confused him. Ive looked at the screenshot that Mr 
B has sent us. It shows at the top of the screenshot that this is from their terms and 
conditions. So Ive looked at the app terms and conditions. The app terms and conditions 
which were issued in June 2022 say At the moment, the app works on..iOS 11 or later 
(we update these regularly). There are different features depending on your phone or tablet, 
operating system or version of the app you have.
But while the app may have still worked on IOS 11 after Barclays had told him from May 
2022 hed need to have IOS 13 or above running on his device to use his app, Im still not 
persuaded that the original message could be interpreted that Mr B would need to buy a new 
device. If Mr B had any concerns about the alert they originally sent him he could have 
contacted Barclays prior to buying a new device. So as Ive seen no evidence Barclays have 
specifically told him to buy a new device, it would not be proportionate for me to ask them to 
contribute to the cost of Mr Bs new device. 
Mr B should be aware that since he brought his complaint to us the app terms and conditions 
have changed twice more (in October 2022 and December 2022). These both say At the 
moment, the app works oniOS 14 or later (we update these regularly). There are 
different features depending on your phone or tablet, operating system or version of the app 
you have. The terms also state For security purposes, always use the latest version of the 
app. So as Mr B has expressed his concerns at security, he should ensure that he uses the 
latest version of the app if he wishes to use their mobile banking app. But it follows I dont 
require Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman