DRN-3581811
The complaint
Ms B complains shes paid more on her debt management plan with MoneyPlus Group 
Limited than she actually owed at the beginning of the plan 17 years ago.
What happened
Ms B says shes paid off more than her debts were, so thinks there shouldnt be anything 
outstanding at this point.
MoneyPlus said the current amount outstanding was £5,417.09 which they estimated would 
take another three years and four months to complete the plan in full.
MoneyPlus said when Ms B first got in touch in August 2005, they spoke to each of her 
creditors to find out how much was owed. They listed out each of these balances, explained 
a further debt had been added in February 2017, and the total debt Ms B owed was 
£33,298.32. They said Ms B had paid £35,280 into the plan, of which £28,115.01 had been 
distributed to her creditors, and £7,164.99 had been paid to them in management fees. 
Having set this out, MoneyPlus said it leaves a discrepancy of £233.87, and said this relates 
to interest and charges continued to be charged by Ms Bs creditors at the start of her plan  
but all creditors have since frozen interest and charges. Overall, they didnt uphold Ms Bs 
complaint.
One of our Investigators explained we had no authority to look at complaints about debt 
counselling / debt adjusting  which is what Ms Bs concerns relate to  until April 2007. So, 
this meant we couldnt look at the setting up of the plan, or whether the original balances 
were correct  we could only consider if MoneyPlus had managed the plan properly after 
April 2007.
Both parties accepted this  so one of our Investigators then assessed the substance of 
Ms Bs complaint and didnt think MoneyPlus had done anything wrong. Ms B didnt agree, 
saying shed paid more than she owed and didnt think the amount MoneyPlus said she 
owed was accurate. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has said in her response to the outcome of her complaint that shed paid more than the 
debt she owed. This is true based on what MoneyPlus have said  because out of the 
amounts Ms B has paid, £7,164.99 have been taken in fees (as at the time of the response 
from MoneyPlus) to them for managing the plan.
As Ive set out above, I cant make any findings about issues that occurred before we had 
authority to consider them. I can consider whether Im satisfied the amounts Ms B has paid 
have been fairly distributed  either to her creditors or taken in fees by MoneyPlus.
Payments to creditors
From MoneyPlus notes I can see the plan started in July 2005 with a monthly payment of 
£180, and annual reviews were carried out from then onwards. Ive also seen frequent 
updates to the balances of the debts, with them reducing regularly over the years. So, it 
seems from the information I have MoneyPlus have been paying off Ms Bs creditors as Id 
have expected.
Ive noted as well MoneyPlus have sent Ms B annual reviews, and annual statements  both 
of which show the outstanding balances to her creditors. These also show the balances 
reducing over the years Ive got this information for. So, overall, I think MoneyPlus have 
been paying off Ms Bs creditors as they should have been.
Fees
For me to uphold this element and say Ms B has been overcharged or MoneyPlus have 
done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied theyd applied the fees incorrectly or not 
made her aware of them.
Although I cant consider what happened when the agreement was taken out, MoneyPlus 
have provided a copy of the original agreement Ms B took out  which says the fees would 
be 16% of her monthly payments  coming to £28.80 / £28.79 per month. 
There were then three increases to the monthly fee charged which I can consider. The 
second change of fee document shows the fees would now be 17.5%, coming to £31.50 per 
month. The fourth and last fee change MoneyPlus wrote to Ms B on 3 April 2018 to tell her 
the new fee shed be charged was a flat fee of £44.50.
There was a third fee change I dont have paperwork for but given MoneyPlus did tell her 
about the fees three out of the four times, I think its more likely than not they told her about 
this third time as well.
Ms Bs monthly payment remained at £180 for the lifetime of the plan. Her statements show 
the following:
July 2005-May 2008 Ms B paid £28.80 / £28.79  which is 16% of her monthly 
payment.
June 2008-November 2009 £31.50 per month  which is 17.5%
December 2009-May 2018 £35 per month  which is 19.4%
June 2018 to the date of the complaint £44.50 per month  a flat fee theyre now 
charging.
So, the charges have been applied in line with the documents I have for three out of the four 
series of charges. For the remaining one, Ive also seen in the annual reviews and annual 
statements Ive been given the fee of £35 was being mentioned.
Overall then, I have to conclude that Im satisfied Ms B was made aware of the fees, and Ive 
not seen anything to suggest theyve been charged incorrectly.
Summary
Taking everything into account Ive seen nothing to suggest MoneyPlus havent been 
crediting the money to Ms Bs creditors as they should be  nor have I seen any evidence 
theyve applied their charges unfairly or incorrectly.Ms B has a plan with MoneyPlus on which theyll continue to charge fees for their services  
and its these fees I think which have caused Ms Bs concerns. As I said at the beginning, 
she has paid more than her debts were when she first took out the plan, but shes not 
factored in the fees shes been charged. But, as Ive found these fees have been charged 
correctly, MoneyPlus havent done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman