DRN-1529406
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains on behalf of her mother Mrs W, about the problems she experienced when 
trying to use the debit card on Mrs Ws account with TSB Bank plc (TSB).
She is also was unhappy because the issues were unresolved for over five months, and she 
wasnt satisfied with how TSB dealt with her complaint.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mrs B and TSB, so there is no need for me to repeat it all again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mrs B holds a Power of Attorney for her mother Mrs W in order to manage her financial 
affairs. In June 2018, Mrs B obtained full access to her mothers account, and TSB provided 
her with a debit card.
When Mrs B tried to use the card in July, it did not work, and so TSB issued another one to 
her. That didnt work either and so TSB issued a third one. Unfortunately Mrs B didnt 
receive it and another was issued, which she did receive. But once again this card didnt 
work, despite Mrs B unblocking the PIN, as directed by TSB, and so a fifth card was issued 
to her. On the 26 September Mrs B complained and the following day TSB accepted that 
Mrs B had experienced poor service and so offered and paid into Mrs Ws account £100 in 
compensation with an additional £2 to cover her call costs.
Mrs B continued to experience problems and re-opened her complaint on the 19 October. 
Those problems continued until January when the bank statements show that she was able 
to use the card on the 7 January 2019.
TSB reviewed her complaint and paid a further £48 to Mrs B which it felt would cover any 
further expenses Mrs B may have incurred.
Mrs B was unhappy with TSBs final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator agreed there had been 
poor service but thought the amount of compensation offered and paid was sufficient to put 
things right. 
Mrs B didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether TSB acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I have 
to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what 
Ive done here. 
TSB acknowledge that there was a clear failing in the level of service Mrs B was entitled to 
receive. By way of explanation TSB said there were known issues with their customers debit 
cards being declined at the relevant time, and those issues were not limited to just Mrs Ws 
account. That said, and whilst IT issues do arise from time to time, I can see that it took an 
extraordinary length of time for TSB to resolve the matter. 
During the first period of July to September 2018, TSB issued 5 cards and that still didnt 
resolve the problem. That would have been immensely frustrating for Mrs B and I dont 
underestimate the aggravation and annoyance she would have felt. But, putting it into 
context, it was only Mrs Bs card which could not be used, as Mrs W was able to use her 
card without issue. And her account statements show there was no effect on any standing 
orders or other direct payments. Of course I understand that Mrs B had specifically obtained 
access to Mrs Ws account, by way of a Power of Attorney appointment, in order that she 
could monitor and otherwise keep an eye on it for her mothers benefit, and without her debit 
card working properly this made it more difficult for her. So, at the end of September, when 
TSB thought they had resolved the matter they offered and paid £102 by way of 
compensation.
The problem though, was not solved at that point, and Mrs B was put to further trouble until 
the 7 January 2019 when she was finally able to use her card. However, during that period 
Mrs W was able to use her card without problem, and her regular payments were also 
unaffected. Fortunately Mrs B was able to shield Mr W from any further upset and trouble by 
not disclosing to her the full extent of the problem.
Looking at the transaction list TSB has provided, it shows that Mrs W was able to use her 
card very regularly through June, July, August, and up to the 3 September. There then 
appears a period of inactivity as far as the use of Mrs Ws card is concerned up to the 22 
October, which I am presuming is the time Mrs W was on a cruise (save for one purchase on 
the 4 October which is likely to have been whilst she was away). After that the card was 
used regularly until the 12 November and there was then a period of inactivity (as far as Mrs 
Ws use was concerned) until the 18 March 2019. I make the assumption that Mrs W was 
probably away during that time, although that is not crucial to my decision.
The direct impact of TSBs IT failings on Mrs W appears therefore to have been minimal, not 
least because she was able to use her card in any event, and also because she was away 
on a cruise for a large proportion of the time. I have noted Mrs B protected her mother from 
the issues which also avoided further upset for her. The person who bore the brunt of the 
problem was undoubtedly Mrs B.  
TSB has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it should pay 
compensation to Mrs W. And so it paid into Mrs Ws account a total sum of £150. As Mrs B 
doesnt believe this is sufficient to put matters right, Ive given this some further thought and 
in so doing Ive considered the level of awards this service has made for trouble and upset in 
similar cases. Ive also taken into account, in the light of my findings, the impact the error is 
likely to have had on Mrs W and also Mrs B. But, in some complaints, the problems a customer encounters dont just affect them 
financially, and that is the case here. Those problems can lead to the customer being 
caused some trouble and upset and it is only right that the business should think about what 
it could do to put matters right. Any award of compensation for trouble and upset caused 
needs to be balanced and measured against the vicissitudes of daily life in dealing with other 
people, businesses and organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at 
times.
I know Mrs B draws a distinction between the amount TSB originally paid in compensation 
up to the end of September, and compares that with the amount they subsequently paid, 
arguing the two are incompatible given the disproportionate amount of time she expended in 
dealing with the matter. And I have taken into account the time it took TSB to resolve 
the complaint fully. But putting all of this into the balance and looking at the totality of the 
compensation offered I do think that the amount TSB paid is fair and reasonable. There is no 
scale of compensation to refer to, and it is a question of judgement as to what is fair and 
reasonable. And I think what TSB has paid is enough to put matters right.
So, although Mrs B will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst TSB have 
indeed made errors, I cant say TSB has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably here 
and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
TSB has already paid £150 to settle this complaint, and that is fair and reasonable. So my 
final decision is that I dont require TSB to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman