DRN-3052314
The complaint
Miss C complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited is responsible for poor 
service in connection with her motor insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a small car first registered in 2009. In October 2020,
Miss Cs partner bought the car for about £5,000.00. He gave her the car at Christmas. For
the following year, Miss C took out insurance for the car. The policy was branded with the
name of an insurance intermediary.
In February 2021, a third party damaged the front of Miss Cs car in an accident. The
intermediary said Miss Cs car was a total loss and valued it at £3,100.00. After she
complained to the intermediary, it increased its valuation to £3,714.00, then £4,120.00.
On 24 February, the intermediary wrote a final response turning down Miss Cs complaint
about the valuation. Unhappy with that, Miss C sent some further emails to the intermediary
and then brought her complaint to us on 2 March 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator said that the policy was underwritten by Advantage, so he had dealt with the
complaint as a complaint against Advantage. He didnt recommend that the complaint should
be upheld. He thought that Advantage had dealt with Miss Cs claim fairly and in line with the
policy terms.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss C 
and to Advantage on 27 August 2021. I summarise my findings:
I was satisfied that we should deal with Miss Cs complaint primarily as a complaint 
against Advantage.
I didnt consider that Advantage had treated Miss C unfairly.
It wasnt until mid-June that Miss C complained about the sale of the car. If she is 
complaining that Advantage didnt have the right to sell the car, then she will need to 
put that complaint to Advantage before we can deal with it.
Subject to any further information from Miss C or from Advantage, my provisional decision 
was that I  didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Miss C disagrees with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
She only dealt with the intermediary. This was on the basis that it would handle the 
claim against the third party on her behalf.
She didnt understand that she was making a claim against her own policy.
She didnt complain about Advantage.
She didnt complain about the valuation of the car.
She only ever wanted the car to be repaired. 
She complained that the intermediary decided it was an Insured Total Loss in view 
of its repair estimates, refused to confirm if it had approached the third party insurers 
as requested, offered an amount of money instead of repairing, increased it only after 
she complained, and pushed her to accept the low settlement offer, rather than 
approaching the third party insurer with the bill to repair the car as she wanted.
The intermediary advised that she had to accept the £4,120.00 which she received 
from the intermediary and not Advantage, before she could complain to us.
She purchased a similar replacement for the damaged car. She has sent us the 
invoice (dated early March 2021 for £5,850.00).
Someone sold the damaged car and asked DVLA to issue a new log book to a new 
owner.
The intermediary overstates repair bills, in order to force people to take a low pay-
out. Then as they then have the car, get it repaired at less and then resell. 
A further complaint would be a waste of time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent listened to any telephone call recordings as none were available.
The Financial Ombudsman Service
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules (DISP). One of those rules is that, before we can consider a complaint
against a regulated financial firm, the consumer mustve made that complaint to that firm and
waited up to eight weeks for a final response.
We deal with a consumer complaint against a regulated financial firm. Where its a complaint 
about a claim under an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint against the insurer that 
was responsible for dealing with that claim.
We have to publish our final decisions. We name the regulated financial firm against which
we have recorded the complaint. We dont identify any other party.
We often see complaints about the market value of a vehicle. Our approach to such
complaint is described on our website. We look at whether the insurer has treated the
consumer fairly and in line with the policy terms. We expect insurers to use retail prices fromthe trade guides. We generally find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of likely selling prices.
Purchase of the vehicle
Ive noted that the invoice in October 2020 recorded a mileage of only 36,750.
Insurance
The welcome letter and the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) each mentioned
both motor insurance and motor legal expenses insurance.
Motor insurance
The motor insurance policy terms included the following:
Information about your contracts of insurance
The Primary Policyholder enters into two separate contracts when taking out an
insurance Policy through us.
1. The first contract is with the Insurer named on your Certificate of Motor Insurance
and your policy schedule, for providing your insurance. Theyll charge you a separate
premium for this, including insurance premium tax. Their terms and conditions are set
out at the front of this document.
2. The second is with us for arranging and administering your insurance Policy. Well
charge you arrangement and administration fees for this. Our terms and conditions
are set out in the second part of this document.
Also, the definition of We/Us/Our said that the intermediary was acting on behalf of the
insurer named on the certificate of motor insurance. 
And the certificate of motor insurance named Advantage. So I find it clear that Miss C had a
contract of motor insurance with Advantage as the insurer responsible for dealing with
claims.
The policy terms included the following:
If your Car is damaged or lost because of an accident, vandalism or malicious
damage there are three ways your Policy can help you get back on the road again.
Your Insurer will do one of the following:
 Pay for any necessary repairs
 Replace your Car
 Pay the Market Value of your Car immediately before the loss.
I consider that it was for Advantage to decide which of those three ways to settle any claim.
Thats not necessarily the same as putting Miss C back in the position she was in before the
accident.
Motor Legal Expenses Insurance
For the motor legal expenses insurance, Advantage wasnt the insurer responsible for
dealing with claims. The IPID named a different insurer.
Pre- accident market value
Ive noted the make, model, year and condition of Miss Cs car before the accident.Afterwards the inspection report said the mileage wasnt readable. So Ive proceeded on the
basis that immediately before the accident, the cars mileage was still low for its age.
Miss C sent us adverts for cars similar to hers. But cars can often sell for less than
advertised prices. So I place more weight on the trade guides.
For a car like Miss Cs at the time of the accident, Ive seen trade guide prices as follows:
Cazana £3,447.00
CAP £3,900.00
Glasss £4,330.00
I find that immediately before the accident the value of Miss Cs car was within the range of
those three figures.
Claims- handling
As far as Advantage is concerned, it was bound to treat Miss C as making a claim on her
policy unless she made clear that she wasnt (which I dont consider she did at the
appropriate time).
From the terms of the motor insurance, Im satisfied that  after the accident - the
intermediary was acting on behalf of Advantage. Thats why the intermediary dealt with the 
claim  on behalf of Advantage. Im satisfied that we should deal with Miss Cs complaint 
primarily as a complaint against Advantage.
Damage and loss
After the accident, Advantage (or the intermediary on its behalf) quickly decided Miss Cs car 
was likely to be a total loss. The inspection report said that there was no structural damage 
to Miss Cs car. But it estimated the cost of repairing Miss Cs car as £4,417.84.
I dont find that cost was over-stated - as theres no other estimate.
The complaint
Miss C sent an email to the intermediary on 20 February. She complained that the third party
should either pay £5,000.00 or repair the car. 
There was an exchange of emails on 24 February. Shortly before sending its final response,
the intermediary sent an email including the following:
If you want to have your vehicle repaired, you would need to have an estimate 
completed on your vehicle privately and then submit this to our engineers to
review to see if we could authorise the repairs, however there is no guarantee of
these repairs being approved.
The final response turned down the complaint about valuation.
Shortly after the final response Miss C emailed the intermediary asking it to confirm that it
had sent the repair estimate to the third party.
On 26 February, there was a further exchange of emails. The intermediary offered an interim
payment. Miss C declined and asked again whether the intermediary had contacted the thirdparty.
On 2 March there was a further exchange of emails. The intermediary said that, until it had
an outlay on repairs, it wouldnt claim against the third party. It also said the following:
If you want the vehicle back to repair yourself I can calculate a retaining fee for you,
this would need to be paid back to us from the settlement thats been paid to you,
once received I can arrange for [vehicle company] to deliver the vehicle back to you.
Please note the follow conditions to retaining your vehicle 
- As your vehicle is currently at our salvage yard the battery will be disconnected and
the fuel will be drained for safety reasons.
- Although we expect our salvage agents to take good care of your vehicle, we will
not be held liable for any further damage caused in transit.
- The total loss category will remain on the vehicle, which in turn can reduce the
value of the vehicle if you choose to sell it or if you make another claim.
- We expect the vehicle to be repaired to a roadworthy standard in order to cover any
future damage.
- Some insurance companies do not insure previous total loss vehicles and may
affect the premium of some insurance policies
- You dont need to get an MOT straight away but it will need to pass the MOT when
it is due
I dont find that the intermediary said that the car might be uninsurable.
Miss Cs reply complained that she didnt know she had claimed against her own policy and
had expected the intermediary to pursue the third party. She complained that the latest email
was intimidating.
Complaint issues
Even if the car had still been worth £5,000.00, the estimated cost of repairs wouldve been
over 80% of that value. Thats a higher percentage than insurance companies usually agree
to pay for repairs. So I dont find that Advantage treated Miss C unfairly by declining to repair
her car.
I dont condone Advantages first offer of £3,100.00. But Im satisfied that its second offer of
£3,714.00 and its final offer of £4,120.00 were each fair and reasonable.
Miss C had the use of a courtesy car until early March. Advantage made clear that she could
have the £4,120.00 without deduction of an excess. I dont accept that Advantage or the 
intermediary told Ms C she had to accept that amount before she could bring her complaint 
to us. On the contrary, the intermediary said the payment would be without prejudice to her 
complaint to us.
That money was available to Miss C when she (or her partner) bought the replacement car. 
So I dont consider that Advantage is responsible for any inconvenience she suffered 
through not having a car for a short time.
The invoice shows that the replacement car cost her more than the valuation of her old one. 
And I can see why she feels she is out of pocket. But Ive found that Advantage offered a 
reasonable amount in settlement of her claim.
I wouldnt expect Advantage to send the repair estimate to the third partys insurer until
Advantage had settled the claim and wished to recover its outlay.Im not persuaded that the third partys insurer wouldve agreed to repair her car. Rather it
wouldve paid no more than the pre-accident market value. 
But I wish to make clear that Miss C remains free to complain to the intermediary or the 
motor legal expenses insurer about acts or omissions in relation to the motor legal expenses 
insurance. As that might involve the motor legal expenses insurer (which has had no 
opportunity to answer any complaint ), I make no comment on any further complaint.
If an insurer has made a total loss payment, its usual for the insurer to keep the damaged
car and sell it for salvage. So I dont share Miss Cs view that it was inappropriate for
Advantage to ask her for a retention payment if she wished to keep the damaged car and get 
it repaired herself.
I understand why Miss C felt her insurer wasnt looking after her and was pressing her to
accept its payment. But I havent seen any evidence that Advantage (or the intermediary on
its behalf) said anything inappropriate to Miss C.
From what Miss C has said, Advantage sold the damaged car, someone repaired it and
there is a new owner. I dont consider that this shows that Advantage was wrong to decline
to repair the car. Its not uncommon for a repairer to buy a damaged vehicle and to find a
way of repairing it more cheaply than an insurer would. I dont find it likely that Advantage or 
the intermediary repaired the car before it was sold. 
Overall, I dont consider that Advantage has treated Miss C unfairly.
It wasnt until mid-June that Miss C complained about the sale of the car. If she is
complaining that Advantage didnt have the right to sell the car, then she will need to put that
complaint to Advantage before we can deal with it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman