The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the service provided by Insurance Factory Limited, trading as 
Equesure, when she contacted them to make a claim on her horse insurance policy.
Background
In April 2019, Miss M purchased a horse and took out an insurance policy through Equesure, 
who was acting as a broker in this sale. 
Unfortunately, less than two weeks later, Miss Ms horse passed away so she contacted 
Equesure to ask about making a claim. During these conversations Miss M says the agent 
was unprofessional and laughed at her distress.
Equesure looked at into the matter and upheld the complaint. It said that although the agent 
had a nervous laugh in times of seriousness, it didn't think this behaviour was acceptable. It 
did say that the agent had contacted Miss M directly to apologise and a full refund of the 
policy had been provided.
Miss M remained unhappy and referred the matter to this service. Our investigator found that 
Equesure should have handled the matter better and provided more support to Miss M. She 
said that it should pay £150 compensation to Miss M for the distress this incident had 
caused her.
Equesure disagreed with the investigators recommendations for compensation. It said that 
these types of event would always be distressing, and the agent wouldn't have been able to 
prevent this. And it said that it had already provided a full refund of the policy and waived its 
cancellation fee of £20 so it doesn't think it should pay anything more. 
As the complaint couldn't be resolved, it has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint relates to the phone call made to Miss M and the poor level of service she 
says she received from the agent. Equesure has accepted the call was not handled well and 
so this is not in dispute. However, it doesnt agree that it should have to pay any further 
compensation. So, what I need to decide is whether its resolution of the complaint is fair, 
based on what happened and the impact that has had on Miss M.
DRN-1161670Equesure has said there are certain events which are likely to have an emotional impact, 
regardless of whether anything goes wrong. And that having to call its offices in this scenario 
would be upsetting for Miss M. I agree this would have been an upsetting time for Miss M but 
this doesn't preclude us from considering any additional distress she may have suffered 
following this incident.
Equesure has said it wouldn't have been able to foresee Miss Ms distress. But this call was 
made by Equesure to Miss M in order to ask for information surrounding the circumstances 
leading up to the death. And it seems this was following on from a previous conversation 
with her. So, I think the agent would have already been aware of how difficult this call was 
likely to be for Miss M. 
I have listened to the recording of the conversation. And I can understand why Equesure 
has said the laughter wasn't intended maliciously. But that doesn't alter the impact it had on 
Miss M. She was clearly offended by this as she questioned it at the time. The answer given 
by the agent was that she wasn't laughing at Miss M, but she was laughing at herself. Im not 
satisfied this would have given reassurance to Miss M about the agent's conduct. Miss M 
was looking to Equesure for help and advice in a difficult situation and has told us that, as a 
result of this conversation, she felt like she wasn't being taken seriously, and she didn't feel 
supported. I have heard how incredibly upset she was during the conversation and I can 
appreciate why she would feel this way after what happened. 
Equesure has waived the cancellation fee of £20 in recognition of the poor service. And Im 
aware that the agent has also apologised directly to Miss M and feedback has been given  
which is the right thing to do. But Im not persuaded this is enough to reflect what happened 
and the impact to Miss M as a result of this incident. Equesure has told us it provided a full 
refund of the amount paid for the policy  which was around £112. However, Miss M was 
entitled to this anyway as the cover was cancelled within the 14-day cooling-off period  so 
this cannot be considered as compensation. Taking everything into account, Im persuaded 
an additional sum of £150 should be paid to Miss M to reflect the distress caused to her by 
the poor customer service.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint.
I direct Insurance Factory Limited, trading as Equesure, to pay Miss M £150 for the trouble 
and upset it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman