DRN-4226625
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the service Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) provided when 
issuing new account cards and that they dont provide a virtual card payment option. Hes 
also unhappy they closed his account.
What happened
Towards the end of 2022 Mr T ordered new cards for his two accounts, when they didnt 
arrive, he reported them lost.  At this point new cards were ordered but he continued to have 
issues receiving the cards. Having reported them lost on a number of occasions, they were 
reordered last on 16 December 2022.
In February 2023 Mr T contacted Nationwide as he received four cards at the same time and 
was unsure why and which cards would be the ones he should use. They explained which 
cards were active and which cards could be disposed of as were noted as lost.  The adviser 
explained that it couldve been due to the postal strikes.
Unhappy that he received duplicate cards Mr T decided to make a complaint. He also 
complained that he hadnt received the PIN numbers with the cards. The adviser requested 
PIN reminders were sent to Mr T and logged his complaint.
Nationwide responded and apologised for Mr T having received all four cards at once but 
explained that the postal strikes that had taken place at the end of 2022 had impacted post 
reaching their customers and indicated that this was likely in relation to that. They said they 
had no log of Mr T requesting PIN reminders until 25 October 2022 and apologised that Mr T 
hadnt received the PIN reminder sent. They then issued PIN reminders for both accounts in 
February 2023 when Mr T requested them. Additionally, they explained that they didnt offer 
the facility for a virtual debit card via digital banking but directed Mr T to other well know 
virtual pay options.
Nationwide also carried out a review of Mr Ts accounts and noted theyd received several 
complaints from him in relation to the service they had provided. They contacted Mr T 
explaining they felt the relationship had broken down but was looking to see if they could 
resolve things, but during the call decided that they could no longer meet Mr Ts banking 
requirements and provided notice of closure on the call and followed up in writing.
Mr T brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong in relation to the replacement cards and availability of a virtual debit card.  
And felt they had closed his account in line with the terms and conditions. Remaining 
unhappy Mr T asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr T had to request new cards on a number of occasions and when they finally 
arrived, he received four at the same time. Having looked at the card requests and the dates 
when Nationwide actioned the requests by issuing a new card, I can see they did issue them 
at the time Mr T requested the new cards.  Its unfortunate Mr T didnt receive them until 
February 2023, when he received them all at once. However, having checked I can see 
there were postal strikes that took place in November and December 2022. Given that 
Nationwide have shown evidence of the requests made and the dates of issue Im satisfied 
that the reason for the delay and Mr T receiving all four cards at once is likely due to the 
postal strikes taking place at the time of the requests. This is out of Nationwides control and 
therefore not something it would be fair or reasonable to hold them responsible for.
It isnt common practice for new PINs to be sent when a new card is requested. A PIN would 
only generally be sent when a customer has requested it. I can see a request was made in 
October 2022 and Nationwide have provided evidence to show this was issued. Mr T didnt 
receive this but Im satisfied it was sent. In February 2023 Nationwide issued PIN reminders 
for Mr Ts accounts which was the only other time requests have been made from what I can 
see.
Mr T felt Nationwide should offer a virtual card through the APP. Whilst I can understand 
why this wouldve been beneficial to Mr T whilst waiting for his cards it isnt a facility 
Nationwide offer. And theyre entitled to decide which facilities they do and dont provide.
 
In relation to account closure the terms and conditions of the account say:
Closing the account - You or we can close your account by ending this current account 
agreement (which is separate to any arranged overdraft agreement). If we end this 
agreement we will give you not less than 2 months written notice. You can end this 
agreement at any time by contacting us via the Internet Bank or in any branch and you 
must repay all the amounts you are responsible for under this agreement.
So Nationwide are entitled to close an account provided they give at least two months 
notice.  Im aware that Nationwide made Mr T aware of the account closure in a telephone 
call that took place on 24 March 2023. A follow up email was also sent that day confirming 
that Nationwide would commence the closure process on 24 May 2023. Im not aware of any 
specific reason meaning Mr T required more time than this so Im satisfied they have 
provided Mr T with two months notice as required. 
It is for Nationwide to decide who they have a relationship with. Having listened to the call of 
the 24 March 2023 I can see Nationwide were looking to reach a resolution with Mr T but as 
they felt they werent able to repair the relationship breakdown and meet his banking needs, 
decided to close his account. I dont think theyve been unreasonable here as they have tried 
to resolve things with Mr T. As he remained unhappy with the service Nationwide had been 
providing and a way forward for a more positive relationship wasnt agreed, they gave Mr T 
the required notice period in line with the terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman