DRN-1657105
The complaint
Ms W says Leeds Building Society (Leeds) mis-sold her a Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI) policy with her mortgage in November 1999.
What happened
I see Lloyds has already offered to pay Mrs and Mr P some money in relation to part of the 
commission it received from selling the mortgage. 
But Ms W also says that she was made to feel she had to take out the PPI and it was never 
explained to her.  
The cost of the PPI cover at the outset was £26.53 per month and it covered Ms W 
against losing her job or being unable to work.
One of our adjudicators has already provided Ms W with an answer about this complaint 
some time ago, saying that she didnt think it should be upheld.
Ms W disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws PPI complaint.
This sale took place over 20 years ago and so Leeds doesnt have any sale documents 
still available. Given the circumstances and when it was, this isnt particularly unusual, 
or indeed, unreasonable. Businesses arent required to keep documents indefinitely.
Ms W has been able to give us an account of what happened, explaining that this was 
her first mortgage and she remembers the meeting she had to arrange it. She says that 
she felt pressured into taking out PPI because she was strongly made aware of what 
the consequences would be if she couldnt meet her mortgage payments. 
I have to make my decision based on what I consider is likely to have happened at the 
time. I can certainly see that Ms W would have been told having PPI was a good idea. 
But that alone isnt enough for me to think that she was put in a position where she had 
no choice but to accept the PPI. 
I can certainly see that Leeds made a recommendation about taking out PPI  which is 
something Leeds agrees it made  but that isnt the same thing as being told that the 
cover must be taken. It means that the PPI needed to be suitable for Ms Ws situation. 
Ive also seen from the copy of the mortgage application form Ms W gave us that she 
agreed to take out the PPI by specifying the type and level of cover and signing 
separately for the cover. The application form also gave her the opportunity to decline 
PPI if she didnt want it. 
It follows that I dont think Ms W was pressured into taking out the PPI or made to think 
she didnt have a choice about having it. 
Ms W has also pointed out to us that she already had some sickness protection 
through her job, being six months at full pay followed by six months at half pay. She 
says that because of this, the cover was unnecessary and so it was mis-sold to her.
Ive thought carefully about this and I understand the point Ms W is making. However, 
Im afraid it doesnt naturally follow that this means the policy wasnt suitable. This is 
because from what Ive seen Ms W was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The cost of the cover was 
moderate, and Ms W hasnt said it was a cost shed have difficulty in meeting. As a 
mortgage, the loan would have been a significant and long-term commitment for Ms W 
and importantly, it was secured against her home. So the consequences of not being 
able make the repayments could have been serious.
The PPI policy, on the other hand, was designed to help in times of unforeseen financial 
difficulties and provide assurance that Ms W would be able to meet her commitments. In 
the event of a successful claim, it would have paid a monthly sum for up to 12 months if 
Ms W had needed to make a claim. This was in addition to any other means Ms W had at 
the time, such as savings. So whilst I accept I cant say why Ms W decided to have the 
PPI cover, it looks as if it was suitable for her.
Leeds also had a duty to provide information that was clear. I dont know for certain the 
extent it did this, but Ive seen from the papers Ms W gave us that she was given an 
insurance schedule for the PPI, showing the cost of the policy. So I think its likely Ms W 
was also given something explaining the rules of the policy.
 
So, taking everything into account, I dont have enough evidence or information to say 
the policy was mis-sold. Im sorry to disappoint Ms W.
My final decision
It follows that I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman