DRN-3662547
The complaint
Mr B complains Lloyds Bank PLC allowed the sum of a fraudulent cheque to show in his 
account balance before the cheque had cleared. He says this resulted in him parting with a 
luxury watch.
Mr B is represented in his complaint by his father, but for ease of reading I will mainly refer to 
Mr B throughout, even where submissions have been made on his behalf.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a brief 
overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr B was selling a luxury watch. In December 2020, his father met the buyer in a Lloyds 
branch. Mr B says after making several calls the buyer confirmed to his father that the 
agreed purchase price of £9,000 had been transferred to Mr Bs Lloyds account. Mr B says 
he checked his mobile banking app and the sum appeared in his account balance. Believing 
hed safely received the payment he told his father to hand over the watch. Later the cheque 
was returned unpaid.
In summary, Mr B complained to Lloyds that it had allowed a fraudulent cheque to show in 
his account balance. But Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said it wouldnt be 
refunding Mr Bs loss as the deposit appeared on his mobile banking as an uncleared 
cheque payment  not a bank transfer. And the funds were not available at the time Mr B 
instructed his father to give the watch to the buyer.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr B asked our service to investigate the matter. Our 
Investigator said that she didnt think Lloyds needed to reimburse Mr Bs loss. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked that an Ombudsman review his complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say Im sorry to hear that Mr B has fallen victim to a scam. I can, of course, 
appreciate his disappointment that he has parted with his luxury watch, for which he has not 
received payment. I understand that hed like to do all he can to try and recover his loss but I 
can only direct Lloyds to refund Mr B if I can fairly and reasonably conclude that its actions 
resulted in that loss. And in the circumstances of this complaint I dont think I can. Ill explain 
why. 
I appreciate Mr B thinks Lloyds, in reaching its outcome, has not considered the fact that his 
account was a young persons account and that he was only 17 years old at the time of the 
scam. Firstly, I think its important I explain that simply having fallen victim to a scam and 
being a younger person doesnt entitle Mr B to a refund. Ive thought about Mr Bs arguments 
about his vulnerability due to age and his belief that Lloyds ought to have done more to 
identify he was at risk of financial harm. But I dont agree that in these circumstances a 
cheque being deposited into Mr Bs account ought to have triggered Lloyds fraud prevention 
systems. And as there was no interaction between Mr B and Lloyds at the material time 
(when the cheque was deposited), I cant say that it missed an opportunity to identify that 
Mr B was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Mr B says Lloyds were aware of this scam and what he says are its system errors before he 
fell victim to the scam. He knows of other victims who have been fully refunded and 
compensated for the trouble and upset caused. He thinks Lloyds refusal to refund his loss is 
inconsistent and unfair. Whilst I can see why Mr B might feel this way, Im afraid each 
complaint is decided on its own facts. Im not aware of the unique circumstances of each of 
the claims where Lloyds have agreed a refund. And there could be very specific reasons 
(which arent applicable to Mr Bs circumstances) which were the basis for Lloyds agreement 
to provide a refund  or it simply couldve been a gesture of goodwill. But, whatever the 
case, just because Lloyds have agreed to giving another customer a refund, doesnt 
automatically mean it should do the same for Mr B (where he believes the circumstances to 
be the same) nor is it a basis upon which I can fairly ask it to provide Mr B with a refund. 
Mr B says Lloyds told him that it couldnt provide a refund as it had made the appropriate 
changes to its systems before he fell victim to the scam. Mr B assumes these changes were 
due to other customer complaints and he cant understand, considering this, how a cheque 
drawn on the same fraudulent account was allowed to be paid into his account at the same 
Lloyds branch. He says Lloyds ought to have identified the cheque as fraudulent on receipt 
and should not have processed it. He argues Lloyds failure to do so has resulted in his loss. 
Ive thought about what Mr B has said but Ive seen no substantiative evidence to support 
that the Lloyds branch where the cheque was deposited was aware that cheques drawn on 
this particular account were fraudulent  or that it acted outside its procedure when 
processing the cheque which was paid into Mr Bs account. 
So now that Im satisfied there hasnt been a failure by Lloyds in relation to the processing of 
the cheque, Ill consider Mr Bs complaint about his dissatisfaction with how the payment 
appeared on his mobile banking. Mr Bs submission is that he didnt know a cheque had 
been paid into his account. He was under the impression the buyer had made the payment 
by bank transfer. Lloyds have explained the payment wouldve shown as a cheque deposit.  
Ive reviewed the screenshots provided by Mr B of his mobile banking app and they do show 
the payment as a cheque deposit. Im satisfied the narrative about the payment type was 
clear in that the payment hed received had been made by cheque. So I think Mr B ought 
reasonably to have been aware that the payment received was a cheque payment  not a 
bank transfer.   
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account clearly explain that a cheque paid in at a Lloyds 
branch will show in the account the same working day the cheque is received. However, the 
cheque could still be returned unpaid up to 11.59pm on the working day after Lloyds 
receives the cheque. Im satisfied Lloyds have provided Mr B a copy of his account terms 
and conditions. And the information about the cheque image clearing system is also 
accessible and available on Lloyds website. So Im satisfied Mr B was provided with the 
opportunity to understand this process. I can see that Mr Bs available balance (for clarification referred to as balance after pending 
by Lloyds) appears at the top of his mobile banking app. This was showing a balance of 
around £300 before the cheque was deposited. The available balance on the day the 
cheque was deposited was still showing as around £300. The sum of the cheque was not 
showing in Mr Bs available balance. A screenshot Mr B himself has provided also clearly 
shows that the cheque payment had not cleared. The following note was visible in Mr Bs 
mobile banking app: 
NOTE: Uncleared cheques show in your account balance but not in balance after pending. 
You can only use the money when it clears. 
Mr B claims that this note didnt appear till a couple of hours later. Its not possible for me to 
categorically say whether this is what Mr B saw or not  and whether the note was visible 
from the outset. But even if I were to accept what Mr B says about the note Im still satisfied 
the sum would not have shown in Mr Bs available balance as the cheque payment had not 
cleared. And it also doesnt change my finding that Mr B reasonably ought to have known 
the payment was made by cheque  not bank transfer; he had access to information about 
the cheque clearing process; and had been provided with his account terms and conditions 
which made clear that a cheque can be returned unpaid up to 11.59pm on the working day 
after Lloyds receives the cheque. In summary, I dont agree with Mr B that the information 
available to him through his mobile banking was misleading. 
Mr B has argued that funds should not be shown in the account balance unless available. He 
says this is a massive fault in Lloyds banking systems. I appreciate the point Mr B is making 
but this isnt unique to Lloyds. It is the way in which the cheque image clearing system works 
 and applies to most banks  a payment by cheque generally shows in the account balance 
(before it clears) for interest purposes. And as Ive explained above this information is 
available to Mr B. I understand Mr B thought the payment was a bank transfer  but I cant 
hold Lloyds responsible for his misunderstanding. Im satisfied that Lloyds made it clear that 
the payment was a cheque deposit and it was Mr Bs decision to part with the watch before 
the cheque had cleared.  
Taking all of this together I cant say there has been a failing by Lloyds which has reasonably 
resulted in Mr Bs loss  so it wouldnt be fair to ask it to do more. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman