DRN-1881367
The complaint
Mr S complaint is that the car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr S entered into a conditional sale agreement on 13 September 2019 to acquire a 
used car. The car was around 15 years old and had been driven 96,800 miles at 
acquisition.
Mr S reported issues with the car a few days after acquisition. The car was returned 
to the dealer and repairs undertaken. Mr S wrote to Close Brothers asking to reject 
the car.
Close Brothers said that as repairs had been accepted Mr S couldnt reject the car.
Following repairs, Mr S experienced further issues. He reported these and an 
independent inspection took place which showed there were issues with the car from 
the point of supply. The issues were said to be different to those that had been 
repaired previously.  
Mr S again asked to reject the car, but Close Brothers didnt accept this and said that 
the dealer had agreed to repair the car.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He noted the age and mileage of the car and 
agreed that minor issues could occur shortly after acquisition on a car of the age of 
Mr S. However, he didnt think it reasonable that Mr S experienced so many issues 
with the car within days of acquisition and noted the issues were found to be present 
from the point of supply. He didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality and 
thought Mr S should have been allowed to reject it.
Close Brothers didnt agree. It said that given the nature of the minor repairs initially 
carried out and that investigation to fix the new issues could confirm further minor 
repairs were needed it thought repair was the most reasonable resolution.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S acquired a used car through a HPA with Close Brothers on 3 September 2019. 
Under the regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Close 
Brothers can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of 
the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into account all the 
circumstances. In this case the car was 15 years old and had been driven 96,800 
miles at acquisition and so wear and tear would be expected, and it is possible that 
issues could arise shortly after acquisition even if they werent present at the point of 
supply.
Mr S reported issues a few days after acquisition. Under the regulations, a consumer 
has a short term right to reject if a fault is found within the first 30 days. As repairs 
were needed on the car I accept that faults were found and as these were so soon 
after acquisition, Mr S could have had the right to reject. 
However, Mr S accepted that repairs could take place. Given this, he was no longer 
able to reject the car unless further issues arose. Had the repairs resolved all the 
issues with the car then this would have been a reasonable remedy.
Mr S reported further issues with the car and again asked to reject the car. This was 
still within 30 days of acquisition. An independent inspection took place. This 
recorded several issues with the car and said these were present from the point of 
supply.
The issues recorded in the inspection report were, in the main, different to those that 
were repaired by the dealer. However, I note the dealer did carry out a wheel 
alignment and the inspection report said the car was still pulling to one side and a 
wheel alignment was needed. The inspection report also said that the oil pressure 
warning light came on and Mr S initial concerns included the oil sensor light coming 
on which the dealer said was addressed through the service. Therefore, while the 
main faults noted in the inspection report were new, I find that there were ongoing 
issues that had been part of the initial repair attempt. 
Close Brothers says that the fault codes noted in the report could be historic or 
connected to the battery voltage issues so a new battery could resolve the issues. It 
also said that the blue smoke could be due to an issue that could be resolved by a 
minor repair to the seal. It said that the initial repairs were for minor serviceable items 
which wouldnt be uncommon on a car of the age of Mr S and said that repair was a 
reasonable remedy rather than rejection.
I have considered Close Brothers comments. However, the inspection report 
confirmed several issues with the car (not just fault codes) and said that these were 
present from the point of supply. It also noted issues such as the wheel alignment 
which were ongoing despite a repair attempt. I have taken the age and mileage of the 
car into consideration, but it is still reasonable that when a car is supplied it will be 
sufficiently durable. In this case, given the number of issues that were noted within 
the first month of Mr S having the car, I do not find that it was sufficiently durable and 
so I agree with our investigator that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Faults were confirmed, and Mr S made it clear he wanted to reject the car. The initial 
repairs didnt resolve all the issues and I think that his request to reject the car 
following the initial repairs should have been accepted. Given this I find that Mr S 
agreement should be ended with nothing further owing. Had he paid a deposit I 
would have asked for this to be refunded.
I also find it reasonable that he is refunded any payments made towards his 
agreement. Mr S has provided evidence that he hasnt had use of the car and he 
raised the issues and asked to reject the car within the first month.Putting things right
To put things right Close Brothers Limited should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to the customer; 
refund any payments made towards the agreement plus 8% from the dates the 
payments were made to the date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information that may have been recorded on Mr S credit file 
regarding this agreement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Close Brothers Limited should take the 
actions set out above to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman