DRN-3146959
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc made an entry about him on the CIFAS fraud 
prevention database in connection with a mortgage application.
What happened
Mr M and his partner applied for a mortgage with Santander. As part of its consideration of 
the application, Santander asked for proof of income.
Mr M explained that he had both employment and self-employment income. He provided 
wage slips for his employment income. And he said he asked his accountant to complete a 
declaration of his self-employed income.
Santander considered the evidence Mr M had supplied. It had concerns about the evidence 
provided for both his employed and his self-employed income. The employment payslips had 
no deductions for income tax. It says it contacted the accountant named on the certificate, 
who confirmed he had not signed it. Santander therefore added the marker to the database 
and did not proceed with the mortgage application.
Mr M applied to other lenders. He says they turned him down too. And he was advised to 
contact CIFAS  which told him about the marker Santander had recorded. So Mr M 
complained to Santander. He provided a letter from the accountants firm confirming Mr M 
was its customer and the certificate was genuine. But Santander didnt agree to remove the 
marker.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out my view of the complaint. I said:
CIFAS issues principles for its members  which are publicly available on its website  which 
set out the standard of proof to be applied in making an entry on the database.
Making an entry doesnt require proof of fraud or a criminal conviction. The standard to be 
applied is that Santander should have had clear relevant and rigorous evidence such that it 
could confidently report the matter to the authorities should it choose to do so  so the 
standard is not proof of fraud, but reasonable suspicion of fraud.
Ive looked at all the evidence in this case. And having done so, Im not persuaded that 
Santander acted unfairly when it placed the marker on the database.
Santander has pointed to issues with the payslips. And Ive taken that into account. But it 
seems to me that this case really turns on the accountants certificate.
Santander contacted the accountant named on the certificate  who Ill call Mr L. 
Unfortunately theres no recording of this call, but Santanders contemporaneous notes show 
that he told Santander that he did not sign it. On the balance of probabilities, I accept that 
the notes are an accurate record of what was discussed.
Mr L told our investigator that he didnt say he hadnt signed the certificate; he wasnt able to 
say one way or another because he was driving and didnt have access to his business 
records at the time of the call. Though Santanders notes record that it called a landline and 
spoke to a woman who called Mr L to the phone, which doesnt suggest that he was driving 
at the time.
On another occasion, Mr L told our investigator that he didnt confirm anything to Santander 
because he was concerned it was a scam call but that as the most qualified person in the 
firm he would have signed it.
Separately, Mr L has appeared to suggest that the certificate was signed by the accountancy 
firms director, who Ill call Mr J  who didnt realise he should write per pro when signing a 
form under Mr Ls name. Mr J also runs the separate firm which was Mr Ms employer and 
issued the payslips provided at the time of the application.
When Mr M first complained, Mr J wrote to Santander in support of Mr Ms complaint saying 
that the certificate was signed by Mr L and was accurate.
I have seen letters personally signed by Mr J and Mr L, and  though I am not a handwriting 
expert  the signature on the certificate appears to me to be different to those used by both 
Mr J and Mr L when signing letters.
When Santander attempted to verify the accountants certificate by calling the named 
accountant who appeared to have signed it, and that accountant confirmed they had not 
signed it, I think that was sufficient to have given Santander reasonable cause to suspect 
that it had been provided with a document that wasnt genuine. And so I dont think it was 
unfair that it put the marker on the database.
And Ive considered whats been said since, including the differing accounts of what 
happened and the differing signatures. Im not persuaded that the further evidence that has 
been provided shows the standard is no longer met, and so I dont require Santander to take 
any further action.
The responses to my provisional decision
Santander did not add anything further. 
Mr L didnt accept my provisional decision. He said that Santander hadnt met the standard 
for making a report, because it hadnt shown it had clear relevant and rigorous evidence. For 
example, it did not have a copy of the call recording with Mr L, and it was not enough to rely 
on the notes. He said he had not concealed or withheld any information from Santander, the 
information he gave was accurate and the certificate was signed by his accountant. 
He provided a letter from HMRC which set out his employment income and said it had no 
record of self-employed income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered what Mr M has said and I note the impact on him of having a 
marker recorded against his name.As I explained in my provisional decision, in order to put the marker on the database, 
Santander was not required to have proof of fraud, but reasonable suspicion of fraud.
Its unfortunate that theres no recording of the call with Mr L. But that doesnt mean that the 
call can be disregarded; the notes are relevant evidence to be taken into account and given 
appropriate weight. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, Santander carried out reasonable enquiries into 
what it was told. Having done so, it identified a number of discrepancies  including different 
accounts of how the certificate was signed. Different accounts have also been given to us. 
There is other evidence, which I also set out in my provisional decision. Im satisfied that it 
was reasonable for Santander to conclude that the standard for making a report had been 
met and I dont think I can fairly ask for it to be removed. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman