DRN-3714489
The complaint
Ms B complains about American Express Services Europe Limiteds (AESEL) refusal to 
meet her claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). She also 
complains that it did not give her appropriate customer service.
What happened
Ms B instructed a firm of solicitors who I will call H. Ms B paid H in part, by using her 
AESEL credit card. She made several payments to H using the credit card. 
Ms Bs position is that she had two contracts with H one written and one verbal. She tells us 
that H did not perform the services she paid it to carry out. Therefore, she suggests H 
breached its contracts with her. On this basis, Ms B withdrew her instructions from H and 
asked it to reimburse all the money shed paid it which she says is £13,670. It appears that H 
refused to reimburse Ms B, so she complained to AESEL. Ms B relies on the rights that she 
may have under Section 75.
AESELs records showed that Ms B had made several payments to H in 2018. AESEL 
recognised that potentially she had rights against it under Section 75. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers who have used their credit cards to purchase goods or services. In 
particular, the general effect of Section 75 is that if Ms B has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the supplier here H, she can also bring a like claim against 
AESEL provided certain conditions are met. AESEL accepted that Ms B had made payments 
to H in 2018 but that was not enough for it to agree that she could successfully claim against 
it using Section 75. This was because AESEL did not agree that she had demonstrated 
there had been a breach of contract. Ms B complained about:
a. Sabotage of information.
b. Breach of a passport order. 
c. Legal Services not rendered. 
d. Payments breakdown not provided. 
e. Paperwork submission not validated. 
f. Called the police on her. 
g. Breach of GDPR.
h. Subject Access Request denied/not supplied.
Some of what Ms B complained about could have been a breach of contract but it had not 
seen the contract between Ms B and H. On that basis it was unable to establish what she 
had agreed to pay for and what had or had not been delivered. Therefore it followed it was 
not in a position to assess whether the contract had been breached. Further, AESEL also 
pointed out that some of the things that Ms B complained about would not have been 
covered by Section 75 in any event. AESEL declined to uphold Ms Bs claim.
Dissatisfied, with both its response and how it had behaved towards her Ms B complained to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Bs complaint. He did not recommend that Ms Bs 
complaint ought to be upheld.
AESEL appeared to accept this recommendation, Ms B did not. Rather she repeated her 
earlier stance and asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
As Ms B paid for H for services using her AESEL credit card and wanted a refund, Ive 
thought about whether AESEL dealt with her request fairly. I think there were two 
routes open to AESEL chargeback or a claim under Section 75. Ive looked at both 
options.
AESEL did not raise a chargeback. So Ive thought about whether it should have done 
and if this would have made any difference to the outcome here.The chargeback 
process is relevant in this case as I have already said. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants. They are dealt 
with under the relevant card scheme rules.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for AESEL to ask for payments made 
by Ms B to be refunded. Those circumstances include where services arent supplied or as 
described/misrepresented by the company Ms B paid. A chargeback doesnt guarantee a 
refund. It is open to the supplier to raise a defence that could defeat the chargeback 
request.
However, in this instance it appears that a chargeback would not have got off the ground 
regardless of the chargeback reason because the chargeback has to be made within a 
certain time frame and the relevant deadline had already long passed by the time Ms B 
complained to AESEL (which was in 2020).
Moreover, even if the chargeback had been able to overcome this preliminary hurdle, 
which I dont find it could have done in the circumstances I dont think it would have 
suceeded. I say this because, based on the information I have available to me, most likely, 
Ms B would not have been able to demonstrate that H had failed to supply the services it 
should have done.
For all of these individual reasons, I find I have no proper basis for saying that AESEL 
acted inappropriately in relation to the chargeback.
In turn now to the part of Ms B complaint about how AESEL dealt with her claim under 
Section 75. I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a 
financial services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might 
have under Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Ms Bs complaint, I 
have to take account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. 
Therefore, Ive taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same 
outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Ms B pursued a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts 
and operates differently from them.Ms B has sent in a great deal of correspondence between her and H. It is clear from that 
correspondence that Ms B instructed H to carry out a number of different and separate 
activities on her behalf. The difficulty is that there is nothing that shows the full extent of 
the services that H agreed to provide for her, what it actually delivered overall and why this 
was. 
Although there is evidence to suggest at times H was unable to proceed because it 
needed Ms B to provide information or take action and she did not. I see no reason to 
disregard this evidence. Ms B provided it and she has not told us that what H says is 
incorrect and demonstrated this.
Further, Ms B suggests she had both a verbal and a separate written contract with H. A 
contract can be verbal, but I find it unlikely that she did have a verbal contract with H in 
these circumstances, especially given the nature of the services Ms B was purchasing and 
the requirement on H to supply Ms B with a client care letter setting out in writing all the 
services it was instructed to provide.
In any event, I note there is a client care letter from H, but that letter does not set out all of 
the services that Ms B tells us H were meant to perform. Therefore this suggests to me we 
dont have the full picture that is either the contract or sufficient information that allows us 
to piece together the extent of the contract between Ms B and H. 
I recognise Ms B suggests she has both provided sufficient information about both the 
contract and the breach for us to uphold her complaint. But I disagree for each of the 
separate reasons I set out above.
It follows from what Ive said above that, in the circumstances it was reasonable for 
AESEL to ask to see the contract between Ms B and H in order to establish what 
contractual obligations H had towards Ms B. Ms B did not provide that information so I find 
that AESEL acted reasonably in declining to take any further action.
Further Section 75 covers only misrepresentation and breach of contract. Some of the 
things that Ms B raised in her claim were outside the scope of Section 75 in any event.
For all of these individual reasons I have no fair or reasonable grounds for saying that 
AESEL must take any further action. It follows I dont uphold this part of Ms Bs complaint.
Ms B also complains that she did not get the level of customer service she is entitled to 
expect from AESEL. In summary, what appears to have upset her the most, is the time 
taken to look at her claim, the fact that different individuals within AESEL dealt with her 
and being treated rudely on occasion.
In the circumstances, although I recognise that Ms B wanted AESEL to act faster than it did, 
I dont agree that it took too long to investigate and give her its response. AESEL is entitled 
to choose who it assigns to deal with her. I dont think that she experienced any detriment 
because more than one person handled her case. Moreover, whilst I appreciate Ms B thinks 
AESEL was rude she had not said when or how. I have seen nothing in AESELs contact 
with her that I would categorise as rude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman