DRN-3183990
The complaint
Mr W and Miss W have complained about their motor insurer Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited in relation to a cancellation of Miss Ws cover for her car.
What happened
Mr W had a multi-car policy which included cover for Miss Ws car. The policy renewed in 
April 2019. Admiral contacted Mr W regarding some amendments and documents it needed. 
It then confirmed all was ok and issued policy paperwork for the coming year. But, at the 
same time, it also issued another letter to Miss W stating it had found a conviction on her 
driving record that it hadnt been told about and which might give it cause to cancel or avoid 
her cover (treat it as though it had never existed). It said she should contact it within seven 
days or, in line with the terms of the policy, it would cancel her cover. Miss Ws cover was 
cancelled on 10 May 2019 and a letter was issued that day to confirm this. On 13 May 
Miss W had an accident in the car and when Mr W rang to notify Admiral of the claim he was 
told about the conviction and that there was no cover for Miss W.
Miss W was subsequently charged by the police for driving without insurance. But Miss W 
hadnt known about the conviction Admiral had found on her record or the proceedings 
which had led to it being recorded against her. So she made a statutory declaration to the 
court. The court accepted her testimony in this respect and the conviction was removed. 
Miss W found alternate cover elsewhere in order to keep driving her car, but that was more 
expensive with the driving without insurance conviction noted on her record. Miss W was 
also approached by solicitors acting for the motor insurance bureau (acting for the other 
driver involved in the accident on 13 May). The solicitor was seeking a settlement of over 
£7,000 for the bureau but said this would be reduced to around £5,000 if an out of court 
settlement could be agreed.
When Admiral was told that the conviction that had prompted its action had been revoked, it 
wasnt persuaded to change its mind about the policy cover. It said it had cancelled Miss Ws 
cover in line with the policy terms and the conviction, which it hadnt been told about, had 
existed at the point the policy renewed. It maintained that if it had been told about it, it 
wouldnt have put cover in place for Miss W at the renewal. Mr W and Miss W complained.
Our investigator considered whether Mr W and Miss W had misrepresented the situation to 
Admiral at renewal. He felt they had not  because they hadnt been aware of the previous 
conviction. So he felt that Admiral should never have cancelled the policy. He said the 
cancellation should be removed, that Admiral should write a letter to enable Miss W to get 
the conviction for driving without insurance revoked and that it should cover the accident 
claim. Admiral didnt agree to that, so the complaint was passed to me to consider.
I was minded to uphold this complaint. But my reasoning and what redress I felt was 
appropriate, differed to that set out by our investigator. As such I issued a provisional 
decision to explain everything. My provisional findings were: 
avoidance/misrepresentation or cancellation
In this case Admiral didnt actually get to a point of avoiding the policy on grounds of 
misrepresentation (because it hadnt been told about the previous conviction on Miss Ws 
driving record). Mr W and Miss W say it wasnt declared because it wasnt known about. 
I dont doubt what they say. But, actually, given the way Admiral has handled this matter, 
I dont need to consider the misrepresentation issue. 
In my view, Admiral knew there was an issue that might give it cause to say the policy 
should never have been put in place  but knowing that, it then used the terms of the policy 
to exact a cancellation. And Admiral didnt reserve any rights to later revert to a position of 
misrepresentation and avoidance, if the cancellation was found to be unfair in anyway. In 
relying on the policy terms in this way Admiral affirmed the cover which was in place. That 
means it moved past the point of fairly and reasonably being able to seek to avoid liability for 
the policy on grounds of misrepresentation. The only issue I now need to decide is whether 
Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in cancelling the policy. And, if it didnt, what it needs to 
do to put things right.
policy cancellation
Strictly speaking the policy allowed Admiral to cancel it in a situation where Miss W didnt 
cooperate with it. Miss W didnt contact it when it had asked her to, so she didnt cooperate. 
And in that instance the policy allowed Admiral to cancel as it did.
However, I dont think Admiral effected the cancellation fairly and reasonably. I say that 
because Admiral, treating Mr W, as the lead policyholder, wrote to him with a few queries, 
which he answered. And Admiral then issued policy documents for all drivers, including 
Miss W. So Mr W believed everything was ok and there was nothing else that needed to be 
done. But that wasnt true. At the same time as leading Mr W to believe the policy was all 
safely set up and in place for all drivers, Admiral then wrote to Miss W separately regarding 
the conviction and telling her that her cover would be cancelled (in line with the policy terms) 
within seven days if she didnt call it. A copy of this letter was emailed to Mr W. 
I accept that, when viewing the correspondence from a position of hindsight, each of the 
pieces of correspondence is clear. But I can also see that Mr W was likely confused by the 
way in which the correspondence was issued and, through no fault of his own was led to 
believe all was ok with his whole policy, when in fact this was not the case. In thinking this 
I bear in mind that even Admirals underwriters, having reviewed the file activity, found its 
actions to be confusing. I also note the detail of the call Mr W had with Admiral just after 
Miss Ws accident. Im satisfied that he came to that call from a position of having no idea 
there had been any remaining issue with part of the cover at the time of the renewal  his 
recollection was there had been some admin issues, which he had sorted with Admiral and 
the policy was confirmed as set up and in place. So I think Admiral didnt handle matters 
leading up to the cancellation clearly. I think, if it had, Mr W, as the lead policyholder, or 
Miss W would have contacted it, and the cancellation on the grounds of non-cooperation 
would have been avoided. 
Im also mindful that after having given notice of cancellation, when Admiral did cancel the 
policy, it confirmed this by post. The letter it sent by post was dated the same day as the 
policy cancellation, and Miss W had the accident just three days after. Ive no doubt that the 
letter dated 10 May hadnt arrived at the correspondence address by 13 May 2019. And 
Admiral didnt confirm the cancellation by email to the lead policyholder, Mr W. So Miss W 
wasnt, in my view, adequately informed that she was no longer legally able to drive her car 
on the road. Im satisfied that, if she, or Mr W, had been properly informed in a reasonable 
manner, she wouldnt have driven whilst uninsured. All of which means I dont think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to treat Miss W, as being 
off cover at the time of the accident. I think Admiral should reinstate her cover and remove 
the record of the cancellation from its own and any industry database. I know Miss W did 
take out other cover at some point after the accident. Admiral should mark the reinstated 
policy as cancelled by Miss W at the time the new cover begins  Miss W will likely have to 
pay a premium for this period of cover with Admiral.
Admiral will also need to begin dealing with the claim from the other driver. I understand 
Mr W and Miss W have had various communication from solicitors acting for the motor 
insurance bureau which settled the claim for the other driver (because Miss W was seen as 
being uninsured), including requests for payment and a settlement offer. Mr W says theyve 
told the solicitor theyre waiting for the outcome of this complaint before deciding what to do. 
Mr W should pass copies of all correspondence to Admiral so it can begin to act on Miss Ws 
behalf to resolve this as a claim under the policy. And if Miss Ws car was damaged, it will 
need to resolve the claim for that too. If Miss W repaired her car then Admiral will have to 
base any settlement it makes on what it cost her to repair it.  
Miss W was fined £120 for driving without insurance and the court also required her to pay a 
surcharge of £30 to victim services and £85 in costs. Admiral will have to reimburse her 
these sums, plus interest* from the date they were paid until settlement is made.
I understand that Miss W attended court to defend the driving without insurance charge and 
that she was represented by a solicitor. Mr W says they paid £600 for this but he doesnt 
have a receipt. I think it shouldnt be too difficult for Mr W to find proof of payment for this 
charge  the solicitors would have a record of it, and/or it may show in a bank account. If 
Mr W can find proof to show this cost was incurred, Id be minded to make Admiral 
reimburse it, plus interest* (from the date it was paid until settlement is made). But Mr W will 
need to present this proof to me in response to this provisional decision, or I wont make any 
award in this respect.
Mr W also says the price of Miss Ws insurance cover has been affected by the driving 
without insurance charge. That doesnt surprise me, the price of insurance is often affected 
by this type of conviction. So Im minded to require Admiral to compensate Miss W for her 
increased cost of premiums, incurred already and for those which will likely be incurred until 
the conviction is spent. But to determine what a fair compensation amount for that will be, Ill 
need to see a copy of the policy which was arranged after the accident once Admirals 
cancellation had come to light. If I dont see that in response to this provisional decision, 
I wont make any award in respect of increased premiums. If I do get that information, Ill 
consider it and let both parties know, before I make a final decision, what, if anything, I think 
should be paid.
I also intend to make Admiral pay a total of £750 compensation. I think Admirals action 
caused a lot of frustration and significant upset for both Mr W and Miss W. But Im 
particularly mindful that Miss W went to court to try and defend the driving without insurance 
charge. I accept that this would have been stressful for her, as well as inconvenient. I think 
compensation of £750 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Admiral said it accepted my decision. Mr W said he was pleased by it. He said theres no 
claim to make for Miss Ws car  the cost of repair was less than the excess. He also 
provided a letter from Miss Ws current insurer which confirmed that it had removed the 
driving without insurance conviction from her policy details and reviewed its charge for her 
cover in light of that. Which had resulted in it providing her with a refund. Mr W said they had 
not been expecting this and that he recognised this likely meant Miss W had no real loss in 
respect of her current premium. Finally Mr W shared an invoice with us for the solicitors 
charge for representing Miss W in court in respect of the driving without insurance charge.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties are happy with my provisional findings, Ive no need to amend anything I said. 
But whilst Admiral will still need to deal with the part of Miss Ws claim for the other driver, it 
seems Miss W doesnt wish to claim herself in respect of the accident. So Ill amend my 
redress to reflect that. And, in light of the evidence from Miss Ws new insurer, I will remove 
my redress award made in expectation of proof being provided that Miss W had likely 
incurred increased premiums as a result of the driving without insurance conviction. But 
I note the evidence Mr W provided from the solicitor, for the cost of representing Miss W at 
court (£600). So Ive made the award I said would in this respect (pending proof being 
provided, which it has been).
Apart from these two amendments to my provisional decision and my confirmed award, it 
stays the same. My provisional findings, along with the stated amendments to my redress, 
together form this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
Remove the record of the cancellation from its own and any industry database.
Reinstate Miss Ws cover until the point her new policy began, and then mark the 
Admiral policy as cancelled by her.
Consider and deal with the accident claim for the other driver. 
Reimburse £120, £30 and £85 to Miss W, being the sums the court required her to pay 
as a result of her driving without insurance, plus interest* from the date each was paid 
until settlement is made.
£750 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Reimburse Miss Ws solicitors fee of £600 for representing her at court in respect of the 
driving without insurance charge, plus interest* from the date of payment until settlement 
is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from any interest due to Mr W and Miss W, it should tell them how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr W and Miss W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at putting things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021. 
Fiona RobinsonOmbudsman