DRN-3019341
The complaint
Mr D says he is unhappy that Yoga Insurance Services Limited misled him when he took out
his car insurance policy. He thought this included unlimited legal expenses but he later found
out this wasnt included and that hed incur a fee if he wanted to cancel his policy.
What happened
Mr D purchased his policy through a price comparison website. He says he thought his legal
expenses cover was unlimited but once he read the full policy details after purchase he
realised he didnt have this cover in place. He tried to cancel the policy but when he was told
about the cancellation fee he decided not to.
Yoga rejected the complaint, they referred to all the information Mr D saw at the point of sale
and afterwards and explained at no point do they make reference to legal expenses and the
policy explicitly states they dont provide this. They felt the policy had been sold fairly and
that theyd disclosed all the information to Mr D. They say the cancellation fee was also
explained to Mr D before he purchased the policy.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think it was clear to Mr D the differentiation
between legal expenses and legal assistance. He acknowledged the definitions of what is
provided in the policy is included in brochures under optional links but he didnt think it was
enough to expect Mr D to read all of this information, and he wasnt required to do so in
order to proceed with the cover.
Our investigator said it was misleading that the website refers to the customer as being
covered as this suggests a payment or covering of costs. He also said the Insurance
Product Information Document (IPID) says personal injury compensation is covered which
seems to fit under the legal expenses definition.
To settle the complaint he said Yoga should cancel the insurance when Mr D confirms he
has a new policy as the policy suggests Mr D will get a proportionate refund of premiums. He
said Yoga should waive its cancellation fee and if any other fees are charged by the insurer,
Yoga should cover these too.
Yoga disagreed, they said they dont make any reference on their website to legal expenses,
and they explicitly state on their documents the cover provided is not legal expenses but is
legal advice and all of this was provided prior to Mr D making any payment.
In terms of the IPID they said it states this isnt a legal expenses policy and said the extract
explains (in short) that their personal injury assistance solicitors will provide assistance if the
policy holder is injured as a result of an accident at home, in a public place or at work. So the
legal advice is in relation to personal injury and would only be pursued if there was a chance
of success.
As Yoga didnt agree with our investigator they asked for an ombudsman to review the
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision as I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Ive 
included an extract of my provisional decision below. 
Was it clear the policy didnt cover legal expenses?
Yoga had an obligation to present this information clearly so that Mr D could decide whether
the policy was right for him. Ive looked at the documents Yoga provided to Mr D along with
the screenshots Mr D has sent to our service when Ive considered his complaint.
During the course of our investigation, we asked Yoga to define what they meant by legal
expenses and legal assistance.
Yoga said legal assistance cover is for the cost of independent legal advice on any legal
matter covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. If the enquiry meets the criteria,
the customer is entitled to independent legal advice and, if there are prospects of success,
then the insurer can pursue a claim on the consumers behalf. However, if the policy holder
wishes to pursue a claim where the solicitor doesnt feel there would be a chance of success
then the legal costs associated would not be covered.
Yoga said legal expenses insurance is where legal costs are covered in the event of
pursuing a claim. So for instance, if it was a RTA and the customer pursued a personal injury
claim, the legal expense insurance would cover the legal costs of pursuing up to a certain
amount and in the event that the claim is unsuccessful then the costs would be covered so
the customer would not have to pay them.
Mr D referred to a screenshot taken from the price comparison website which shows legal
assistance is provided with unlimited cover. Underneath it says if there is an accident
involving your car and you are not to blame, legal assistance cover will help you claim from
the person responsible. Generally you will be covered if your claim has greater than 50%
chance of success and the claim limit will vary between insurers.
I can understand why Mr D may have thought based on the explanation from the website
that he may have been covered for legal expenses as there does seem to be some overlap
between the two definitions  but these definitions were provided to our service during the
course of our investigation, not at the point of sale. And Yoga havent used the words legal
expenses when referring to this benefit of Mr Ds policy during the sales process, in fact they
have referred to it as legal assistance cover.
Yoga have provided a screenshot taken from their website which they say Mr D would have
seen before proceeding with his policy. There is a table to show what is included in this
policy and within this, legal assistance is listed, there is no reference to legal expenses, so
I think Yoga did make it clear early on that legal assistance was provided, rather than legal
expenses.
Ive also looked at the Legal and Hire Vehicle IPID which shows there is a heading what is
this type of insurance, which is just above the box what is covered. This heading explicitly
states this cover is not a legal expenses policy, so I think Yoga made it clear the policy didnt
provide this service.
Our investigator also looked at the Legal and Hire Vehicle IPID and noted under the section
what is covered there is a tick next to personal injury compensation. So he said this seems
to fit under the legal expenses definition.
This document says Our Personal Injury Assistance Service will help you to ensure that if
you are injured as a result of an accident at home, in a public place or at work, where thenegligence of a third party was the sole or contributing factor for your injury or loss, you will
have access to our specialist solicitors who are ready and waiting to advise you about your
legal rights.
I dont think this is misleading as Yoga have said under legal assistance legal advice would
be given which is accurate -although a claim would only be pursued depending on the
likelihood of success. I appreciate this isnt included on the IPID but it seems Mr D would
have been aware of this having looked at the screenshots from the price comparison website
which he would have gone through. Moreover, the same document (IPID) explicitly and
clearly stated this wasnt a legal expenses policy, so I dont think Yoga gave the impression
this related to legal expenses.
Our investigator said he didnt think Yoga had made a clear distinction between legal
expenses and legal assistance but as explained above I think Yoga made it clear the policy
didnt include legal expenses, and as such I wouldnt have expected them to do anything
further regarding this.
Ive also looked at the policy document which also states this is not a legal expenses policy
and provides the same explanation as the IPID. Ive also taken into account the information
Mr D was given after he took the policy and again, I dont think there is anything there to
suggest to Mr D that hed be covered for legal expenses. So overall I dont think Yoga did
mislead Mr D or that the information it provided wasnt clear. Because of this, I dont think
Yoga need to do anything to put things right.
Unlimited cover
Mr D said in order to settle his complaint he wants the wording unlimited to be removed
against the heading legal on the price comparison website as he feels this is misleading.
Although I cant hold Yoga responsible for actions of a third party, I have looked at the
evidence Mr D provided. The screenshot says legal assistance rather than legal so I think
it is more specific than Mr D has described.
There is a tick against legal assistance and underneath this another tick against unlimited
cover. There is another tick below this which says for all named drivers and passengers.
Immediately underneath this there is an explanation in what circumstances legal assistance
will help, so it does seem to clarify what is covered.
Yoga have said the legal assistance cover is for the cost of independent legal advice on any
legal matter covered under the terms and conditions of the policy, so I dont think saying this
cover is unlimited is misleading, albeit a claim wouldnt always be pursued.
Cancelling the policy
Mr Ds policy was purchased on 14 November 2020 and was due to start on 12 December
2020. Mr D seems to have raised concerns about his policy on 17 November 2020, within
the cooling off period. Yoga explained there would be a set up fee of £49.99 should he wish
to go ahead with cancelling the policy.
Yoga have provided a screenshot which shows Mr D would have been notified on the price
comparison website that there would be a set up fee which would have been shown prior to
payment, and Mr D doesnt seem to dispute this.
Having looked at the information booklet which Yoga says it sent to Mr D after he took his
policy, I can see this explains there is a set up fee of £49.99 if Mr D cancelled his policy
within the 14 day cooling off period.So it does seem Mr D was aware that he would incur such a charge. Because of this I dont
think Yoga were wrong to say this would be applied if Mr D decided to cancel his policy.
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with my findings but I hope my explanation has been
clear in setting out why I dont think Yoga need to do anything.
Yoga had no further comments to add following my provisional decision. Mr D replied to say 
he wanted Yoga to be clearer for future customers and that he hoped theyd think about their 
advertising going forwards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party put forwards any new information or evidence, I dont see any reasons to 
depart from the findings as set out in my provisional decision. 
Mr D has said he wants Yoga to be clearer in their advertising for future customers. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision, based on the evidence provided by both sides, I think 
Yoga did make it clear that this wasnt a legal expenses policy. I dont think they did anything 
to mislead him or that the information it provided wasnt clear. So because of this, I still dont 
think Yoga need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Yoga Insurance Services Limited do 
not need to do anything to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman