DRN-2884001
The complaint
Mr M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) cancelled his 
motor insurance policy in error. He also complains that an incident involving his brother has 
been incorrectly recorded and is therefore affecting the premiums he has to pay. Mr M is 
also unhappy with the overall service hes received from Advantage.
What happened
On the 11 May 2018 Mr M entered into a multi-car insurance policy with his brother. This 
policy renewed a year later on the 11 May 2019. Mr Ms brother had an accident on 7 April 
2019 which he reported to Advantage the day after. It was recorded as a drunk driving 
accident. 
As this type of accident was a direct breach of the terms and conditions of the policy, and as 
Mr Ms brother was banned from driving as a result of the incident, the policy was cancelled. 
Mr Ms policy was accidentally cancelled as well as his brothers. Advantage say they quickly 
corrected the accidental cancellation. 
Mr M complained about the service hed received from Advantage. Advantage upheld his 
complaint due to the policy being incorrectly cancelled and for the level of service provided. 
They offered £150 compensation for the inconvenience theyd caused. They said that Mr Ms 
brothers claim didnt appear on CUE (Claims Underwriting Exchange) in his name.
But Mr M had evidence that the claim was recorded on the CUE database in his name. He 
tried again to get Advantage to look into this. Unhappy with their response, he brought his 
complaint to this service.
In his first view, our investigator felt that the £150 compensation Advantage had paid was 
sufficient compensation for the accidental cancellation and the poor service up to the point of 
Mr Ms first complaint. But he recommended a number of other actions relating to the 
incorrectly recorded claim. 
He recommended Advantage locate and correctly update the CUE record to ensure Mr M is 
not shown as being involved in the incident. He also asked them to recalculate all premiums 
theyd charged Mr M since April 2019 to ensure hed been charged correctly. And he asked 
them to pay him additional compensation of £250  leading to a total compensation of £400 - 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. Additionally, he asked Advantage to pay the 
difference between what Mr M shouldve paid on other insurances with other providers and 
what hed had to pay due to the incorrect record on CUE.
Advantage agreed with part of this view. They said theyd look into CUE and amend any 
errors they found. But they disagreed that they should refund Mr M for any additional 
premiums hed paid to other insurers, if he was able to get any overpayments due to the 
incorrect CUE record back from those insurers directly. 
Advantage also wanted to understand why our investigator had suggested such a large 
increase to the compensation theyd originally offered. 
In his second view, our investigator agreed with Advantage that it wasnt fair for them to 
have to cover costs that Mr M could get back elsewhere. He explained why he felt a total of 
£400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Advantage had caused Mr M was 
appropriate based on the information hed had when writing his first view. 
But he noted that since then, Mr M had provided a further medical explanation about the
impact he feels the errors have had on him. So he now felt itd be fair to increase the total 
compensation for distress and inconvenience to a total of £500 to acknowledge the severity 
of the impact of the issue. He also wanted evidence from Advantage confirming the error 
had been updated on CUE.
Advantage again disagreed with our investigators findings on compensation. They said they 
shouldnt be held responsible for the breakdown in relationship between Mr M and his 
brother, but they should be held responsible for the failings he experienced, which is the 
issue with having CUE updated and it being incorrect in the first place. They said £500 
compensation is usually typical in cases which include financial impact.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 May 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I intend to uphold this complaint. But Im going to require a slightly different outcome. 
Advantage have shown us evidence which confirms that the error has been updated on 
CUE. And Im going to require a different amount of compensation. Ill explain why. 
Poor service and incorrect cancellation of Mr Ms policy
Mr Ms policy was a multi car policy. Although he and his brother had two separate vehicles 
and were two separate policyholders, Mr M was the primary policyholder because the policy 
belonged to him. Advantage have explained that when the drink driving claim was made, the 
policy was cancelled.
Theyve explained that the whole policy was cancelled in error, rather than just Mr Ms 
brothers part. But when Mr M alerted them about this they investigated and reinstated Mr 
Ms part of the policy. They apologised for their error and paid £150 in compensation for this 
aspect of Mr Ms complaint. Mr M accepted their apology and explanation.
I agree with our investigator that this is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. So I 
wont be asking them to do any more on this. But I feel that the £150 compensation 
Advantage have already paid was only in respect of this issue. 
Information incorrectly recorded on CUE adversely affecting claims history
Its clear from the evidence that Mr M has provided through his motorbike insurer that his 
brothers claim has been recorded on CUE under his name. 
Advantage didnt acknowledge this in their final response letter. They appear to have 
checked their own claim record on CUE rather than doing a more detailed investigation. So 
they issued their final response stating there was no issue with CUE. Mr M repeatedly told Advantage that there was an issue with his name being on CUE. He 
explained that he contacted another insurer when he was looking for a motorbike quotation. 
He explained that when he was asked if hed been involved in any previous accidents, he 
responded in full. But that he was then asked about the accident involving his brother, which 
had been incorrectly attributed to him. Naturally he explained that this had nothing to do with 
him. But his premium was impacted anyway. 
So Mr M called Advantage to report this. He says he was told that it couldnt be removed 
from the system. That mustve been incredibly frustrating. Mr M asked Advantage that he 
needed them to revisit this aspect of his complaint so that the incorrect information held 
about him could be removed. 
On 20 November 2019, two weeks after their final response letter, Mr M told Advantage that 
hed received picture evidence from his motorbike insurer that proved the incorrect claim 
was still on CUE under his name on 19 November 2019. On 25 November 2019 Advantage 
asked Mr M to share that proof, but he didnt feel able to as his motorbike insurer had 
included a disclaimer stating the information wasnt to be disclosed to anyone else. Mr M 
again asked Advantage to address the outstanding issues from his original complaint. But 
Ive seen no evidence that Advantage responded.
I note that in his communications with Advantage at the end of November 2019, Mr M
explained that the outstanding issues were causing him serious stress. 
It doesnt seem from the evidence Ive seen that Advantage made any attempt to correct the 
CUE record, even when Mr M explained he had evidence that CUE held incorrect 
information about him. And even though hed explained the stress this was contributing to.
Its clear that Advantages continued miss-recording of the incident on CUE has increased 
the stress Mr M has suffered. Mr M has provided evidence to this service of the physical and 
mental impact the stress hes been under has had. I agree with Advantage that I dont have 
enough evidence to hold them responsible for the breakdown in relationship between Mr M 
and his brother. But I can see that in not resolving Mr Ms clearly described problems in a 
timely manner theyve caused him a lot of distress.
Advantage have offered an additional £75 compensation for the fact that the claim affected 
his future premiums. But theyve not considered any compensation for the distress theyve 
caused over a long period. Advantage told us on 5 May 2021 that theyd finally resolved the 
issues on CUE. Theyve now correctly recorded the claim against Mr Ms policy  as he was 
the policyholder for the policy the claim was made against - but with his brother as the driver.
Taking everything into account, I intend to require Advantage to pay Mr M £250 in additional 
compensation for the distress theyve caused him. I understand that Mr M may not feel this 
is fair given the stress hes been under. Im sorry for what hes been going through, but I 
cant hold Advantage entirely responsible for his distress. Its impossible to say how much of 
his distress is due to the accident itself, and how much is due to Advantages 
mismanagement of it afterwards. But I do hold Advantage responsible for failing to resolve 
this issue for such a long time after the event.
Other outstanding issues
Mr M has asked Advantage to remove any traces of his brothers accident that are against 
his name. Following their update to this service on 5 May 2021 I believe this has been done. 
Advantage have said that they'd look at the previous and current years premiums to see if there's a refund payable due to CUE not having been updated in a timely manner. They've 
said theyd then send Mr M a letter that he could use for any future insurer, explaining the 
situation. But Ive not seen evidence that theyve done that yet.
I agree that Advantage shouldnt have to refund Mr M for any overpayments he can get back 
from other insurers. But I consider that they should pay him back where thats not possible. 
But I will ask Mr M to provide suitable proof in that case.
Advantage have asked Mr M to provide policy documentation to show that his brother is not 
a named driver on his new policy. Theyve agreed to look into whether a refund needs to be 
calculated and to assess that. Theyve said that once this has been done, it would generate 
a letter that Mr M can use for any future insurer. But they note that if his brother is a named 
driver on any policy he will need to declare the incident under his brothers name. 
Mr M has provided us with screenshots which show that his brother isnt on his policy. Hes 
also told us that Advantage have this information already as hes still insured with them.
I note that Advantage told us on 5 May 2021 that they'll be contacting Mr M shortly to explain 
everything. I dont know if that call has taken place yet.
In summary, I acknowledge that Advantage have corrected the CUE record for Mr M. But I 
still intend them to take a number of other actions  listed below  to put things right.
I intend to ask Advantage to take the following actions to put things right:
Provide the explanatory letter theyve promised for Mr M to use with any future 
insurer
Assess and pay any refund due to Mr M from his policies held with them since April 
2019
Refund Mr M for any overpayments he cant get back from any other insurers, upon 
receipt of suitable proof
Pay him an additional £250 for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused him.
Response to my provisional decision
Advantage said they understood that the remedial actions within my provisional decision 
would put Mr M back to the same financial position he wouldve been in. But they felt that the 
£250 Id suggested for distress and inconvenience was too high, considering the remedial 
actions to be taken. They felt that as theyd already issued £150 compensation, a further 
£100 would be more appropriate than the £250 Id suggested.
Mr M sent us further premium evidence, although he said that he wont be able to prove the 
overpayment hed made for his initial motorcycle policy. He said that the fact that this 
complaint has taken over 18 months to resolve has meant hes out of pocket. 
Mr M also said that Advantage have yet to get in touch with him to explain anything. Despite 
the fact that they offered to do this on 5 May 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage have asked me to reconsider the additional compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, given theyd already paid £150. Ive considered their request. But this 
complaint has taken over 18 months to resolve. This has caused prolonged stress for Mr M.
And even though Advantage promised on 5 May 2021 that they would contact Mr M to 
explain everything, they havent. So Im persuaded that an additional £250 for distress and 
inconvenience is warranted in this case.
Mr M provided some premium evidence to this service in his response. But hell have to 
provide that information to his insurers to see if its acceptable to them. If for any reason he 
cant get overpayments back from any insurer, hell have to provide that evidence to 
Advantage instead. 
Overall, no new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view 
I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to take the following actions to put things 
right:
Provide the explanatory letter theyve promised for Mr M to use with any future 
insurer
Assess and pay any refund due to Mr M from his policies held with them since April 
2019
Refund Mr M for any overpayments he cant get back from any other insurers, upon 
receipt of suitable proof
Pay him an additional £250 for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused him.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell them Mr M accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.  
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to take the actions detailed in the Putting 
things right section above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman