DRN-2855799
The complaint
Ms H has complained that Betterpace Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in March 2021 that I summarise below.
Ms H was given a loan of £3,000 by Betterpace in December 2011. The loan, which was
secured against a vehicle that Ms H owned, was due to be repaid in 78 weekly instalments
of around £107. The total amount payable, including interest was just over £8,362. Mrs Hs
partner Mr H signed a guarantor statement for the loan. I understand the loan account was
settled in 2014.
Betterpace initially said that as Ms H took her loan more than six years ago, her complaint
couldnt be investigated by this Service as it was outside the time limits. One of our
adjudicators looked at whether this complaint was something that we could deal with. He
thought that Ms Hs complaint had been made in time and Betterpace told us it would be 
happy for this Service to look into the complaint.
Our adjudicator investigated the complaint. Ms H didnt agree with the adjudicators 
assessment and the matter passed to me to decide.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Betterpace needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. I said that Betterpace was required to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks in order to establish whether Ms H could sustainably repay her loan.
Betterpace asked Ms H for information about her income and expenditure and it reviewed
her bank statements. But I didnt think that Betterpace made a fair lending decision
on this occasion and I explained why.
Betterpace was required to establish whether Ms H could sustainably repay her loan.
Betterpace says it included monthly income from Ms Hs partner when it calculated whether
the loan was affordable for Ms H. Given their joint income and the expenditure that Ms H
declared, Betterpace says it thought the loan was affordable for Ms H. Betterpace also took
into account bank statements from Ms Hs business and says it didnt see anything to
suggest her business may not be sustainable.
But Betterpace was lending to Ms H alone  this was a personal loan, not a loan to her
business, and it was Ms H who was liable under the loan agreement to repay the lending.
Betterpace was required to establish whether Ms H could afford the loan based on her
personal income and expenditure, and not on its assessment of whether her business might
have been sustainable or not. Ms Hs loan was secured against her vehicle  not against her
business. I didnt think it was fair or reasonable to include Ms Hs partners income when it
assessed whether Ms H herself could sustainably repay her loan. Mr Hs monthly salary was
paid into Ms Hs bank account, but Mr H could have chosen at any point to re-direct his
salary into another account  Ms H effectively had no control over this.
Mr H had signed a statement guaranteeing the loan. But an assessment of whether a loan is
affordable for a borrower and for a loan guarantor should be two distinct processes.
Betterpace has told us that it considered both Ms H and Mr Hs income and expenditure in
deciding the affordability of the loan it was giving to Ms H. But I thought it should reasonably
and fairly have assessed whether Ms H as the borrower was in a position to repay her loan
herself, based on an assessment of her financial circumstances, and not on that of her
partner or her business.
I thought Betterpace ought reasonably to have realised from its checks that some of the
information that Ms H had provided in her application about her income was somewhat at
odds with the evidence provided in its checks. It didnt seem from Ms Hs bank statements
that she was receiving the amount of regular income she had declared as wages  either
paid to her as a salary from her business or from another employer. Betterpace says that Ms
Hs bank statement showed a large opening balance and that there was nothing to indicate
financial distress at the time Ms H took the loan. Betterpace also says it assumes that Ms
Hs wages were paid to her from her company. But the business account statement does not
indicate that Ms H was regularly taking a salary from the business. And from what Id seen,
it didnt seem that she was receiving a regular income from any other employment at the
time.
This was an expensive loan and Ms H had to maintain her loan repayments every week for
around 18 months. I thought Betterpace ought reasonably to have considered whether Ms H 
as the borrower could afford the repayments for her loan. I dont Betterpace made a fair 
lending decision when it provided Ms H with the loan. Had Betterpace fairly assessed Ms Hs
circumstances, it ought reasonably to have realised that she wasnt receiving a regular
income and would most likely struggle to repay the loan sustainably over the extended loan
term. In these circumstances, I thought Betterpace ought reasonably to have concluded it
wasnt appropriate to lend to her.
Did Betterpace act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ms H also complained about the high interest rate and charges for the loan. She is also
unhappy about how Betterpace dealt with her when she told it that she was having
difficulties repaying the loan.
But I thought Ms H would have been aware she was taking a high interest loan and 
information about the cost of the loan was set out on the agreement that she signed. The 
agreement also set out alternative ways in which Ms H could avoid incurring additional 
charges, such as making her repayments by standing order. There is limited information 
about what happened when Ms H ran into difficulties repaying her loan. But from what Ive 
seen, Betterpace did agree to reduce her monthly repayments and it was not under any 
obligation to freeze interest attached to her loan.
Overall, I couldnt fairly say that Betterpace treated Ms H unfairly in some other way. But
taking everything into account, I didnt think it should have agreed to provide the
loan to her. So, I said I was intending to uphold Ms Hs complaint and that Betterpace 
needed to put things right.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Ms H told us she didnt 
have anything further to add. Betterpace asked for more time to consider its response. It 
sent us a number of lengthy further comments, all of which I have read and carefully 
considered when coming to my final decision. 
In summary, Betterpace says:It has been difficult to find documents related to this matter due to the time that has 
passed, and it is unfair that the complaint has not been time barred.
All the available evidence would have been gathered and Ms H would have been 
asked to provide evidence of her income. There would have been a thorough 
assessment made of Ms Hs finances, including her business and her partners 
financial contribution, in order to gain a full picture of her financial position. 
The loan was affordable for Ms H and credit checks did not raise any concern. At the 
time, although Ms Hs business was newly incorporated, there was plenty of cash 
flow, high bank balances and nothing to suggest any financial issues, as this was Ms 
Hs main source of income. If circumstances had changed and income from Ms Hs 
partner could no longer be relied upon, then it would have worked with Ms H to 
arrange a payment plan.
Whilst it cannot show all the details of what took place at the time, Betterpace 
believes that everything was done to verify Ms Hs circumstances and check the 
loans suitability. If any concerns had been raised by the underwriter, then a lower 
amount would have been offered or the process discontinued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision. 
This service has previously explained why we can look into this complaint, despite the 
amount of time that has passed. It is difficult to know exactly what took place at the time, but 
I think both parties have been able to provide sufficient evidence for me to make a fair and 
reasonable decision about this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think that Betterpace had made a fair 
lending decision on this occasion. If I do not refer to each further point raised by Betterpace 
it is because I have focussed in my decision on what I consider to be the key issues  but I 
would like to reassure Betterpace that I have read and considered everything it has said.
Ive thought carefully about all the further comments that Betterpace has raised, but these 
have not changed my view of this matter overall. 
I appreciate that Betterpace says it carried out a full assessment of Ms Hs finances and 
therefore this included her business account and her personal bank account. Betterpace 
says there was nothing of concern shown in its credit checks. But from what Ive seen, 
Betterpace included her partners income in its assessment of whether the loan was 
affordable and sustainable for Ms H. Betterpace says that if circumstances changed and the 
income from Ms Hs partner could no longer be relied upon then it would have worked with 
Ms H to arrange a payment plan or payment holiday. But Betterpace was required to ensure 
that Ms H herself could repay her loan sustainably, over the full loan term. I have already 
explained why I dont think it was fair or reasonable to include Ms Hs partners income in its 
assessment of whether or not the loan was affordable and sustainable for Ms H. Betterpace 
was lending to Ms H alone and it was Ms H who was liable under the loan agreement to 
repay the lending. Betterpace says there must have been some other evidence given to prove Ms Hs declared 
level of income, such as payments from payroll, dividends or drawings. But the bank account 
statements and business statements that Ms H provided at the time do not show this. And 
Ive not seen anything else that makes me think its likely that Ms H was receiving further 
income from another source at the time. I think it is reasonable to conclude that this partly 
contributed to Betterpaces decision to include Ms Hs partners income in its assessment of 
the loans affordability for Ms H. 
I understand that Betterpace feels very strongly about this matter and I have considered all 
the available evidence to decide what is fair and reasonable, in the circumstances. But 
taking things in the round, I think Betterpace ought reasonably to have realised that Ms H 
would most likely struggle to repay her loan sustainably over the extended loan term. In the 
circumstances, I think Betterpace ought reasonably to have concluded it wasnt appropriate 
to lend to her.
Having considered everything, including all of Betterpaces further comments, I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I cannot fairly say that Betterpace treated Ms H unfairly in some other way. But I dont think it 
should have agreed to provide the loan to her. So, I am upholding Ms Hs complaint about 
her loan and Betterpace needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms H to have repaid the principal amount that she
borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and
charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her.
Betterpace should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Ms H 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Ms Hs loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Betterpace should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Hs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Betterpace to deduct tax from this interest. Betterpace
should give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Betterpace Limited to put things 
right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman