DRN-3264430
The complaint
This complaint is about the administration of Mr Bs personal pension plans by Royal London 
Mutual Assurance Society Limited.
What happened
In 1993 Mr B was advised by a firm Ill call R to switch a personal pension plan (PPP) 
valued at around £16,039 and an executive pension plan (EPP) into a PPP (ending 413) and 
EPP (ending 770) with Scottish Life. The R advisor based his recommendations on 
illustrations at the time which showed projected investment growth of between 8.5% and 
13%. Both plans were invested in the with profits fund. 
Scottish Life was taken over by Royal London in 2001, and since 2002 the annual bonuses 
have been reduced, so growth of the plans has not met expectations. Over the years Mr B 
has complained about various customer service issues such as annual statements not being 
received and communication by secure email rather than Mr Bs preference which is post. 
Mr B brought a complaint to this service in 2013 and it was rejected by way of a final 
decision. In 2015, 2016 and 2017 Mr B complained about missing statements and referred a 
complaint to this service in 2018 which was passed to the Pensions Ombudsman. 
In March 2019 Mr B complained again to Royal London about the poor communication, and 
also the level of bonus as he was approaching his normal retirement age of 65. Mr B didnt 
want to take benefits yet as hes still working so Royal London moved both plans from the 
with-profits fund to its Late Vesting Account, essentially a cash account, and his retirement 
date was automatically deferred by five years. In August 2019 Mr B moved his PPP 413 to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with provider A. 
Royal London responded to the complaint in October 2019. It couldnt help further about the 
sale in 1993 as the advice had been given by another firm. It explained the information 
provided at the time had been based on the then regulators (LAUTRO) illustration rates 
which it made clear were not guaranteed.. And it felt that Mr Bs complaint about the 
mismanagement of the plans was the same one hed made in 2013. But it paid £150 as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Mr B accepts the plan was originally sold to him by R but holds Royal London responsible 
as it provided the original illustrations. So in December 2019 he referred his complaint to this 
service, and subsequently added further complaint points. 
In March 2020 Mr B transferred his EPP (plan 770) to a SIPP with provider H and wanted an 
explanation of the slight discrepancy between the plan valuation and the amount actually 
transferred. Royal London also erroneously told Mr B his plan value had altered by more 
than 10% when this wasnt actually the case This complaint was upheld in April 2020 and 
Royal London paid Mr B £146.50 which he accepted. 
In October 2020 Royal London wrote to Mr B to advise it had made an error when 
calculating the terminal bonus on his PPP (plan 413). To resolve this it paid him the 
difference being £484.92 (calculated as 25% tax free and the remainder taxed at 20%). Mr B 
believes this error prevented him transferring his PPP to his SIPP in August 2020 and also 
caused an unexpected tax liability. He also questioned whether he could rely on the terminal 
bonus on his EPP and wanted the calculations to be independently checked. 
Mr Bs unresolved complaint points were (in summary)
Royal London (previously Scottish Life) provided the illustrations on which the 
decision to transfer was based;
Businesses shouldnt be able to make unrealistic claims for future performance 
without sanction;
He linked the deterioration in performance to the takeover by Royal London;
Royal London misled him by saying reduced annual bonuses should lead to an 
increased terminal bonus;
Hed accepted compensation over the years but nothing had been done about the 
systemic communication problems hed experienced.
Provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 as Id come to a different outcome to our 
investigator. In relation to Mr Bs concerns about the terminal bonus applied to the EPP he 
said Royal London should review its calculations and refund any loss to Mr B with interest. 
He said we wouldnt require Royal London to engage external auditors, but Mr B could do so 
if he wished.
My provisional decision was not to uphold any element of Mr Bs complaint. I explained that 
his complaint about the administration of the EPP was being invested by the Pensions 
Ombudsman (PO) which looks at complaints about the administration of occupational 
pension schemes, including EPPs. So this service wont look at that aspect further. 
I explained the different roles of this service, the Pension Ombudsman and the FCA and I 
addressed Mr Bs other points, summarised as follows:
 
The 2013 complaint 
This service doesnt have to consider a complaint again if we have done so previously 
particularly if it was resolved by way of a final decision. I wasnt able to access the case 
record of Mr Bs original complaint from 2013 but I was able to review an anonymised copy 
of the decision on our website. Having done so I was satisfied it was about Royal London 
mismanagement of Mr Bs EPP and PPP, specifically that returns and bonuses had been 
low, particularly when compared to the initial illustrations issued. Plus a separate point about 
whether an exit penalty applied. My ombudsman colleague didnt uphold the complaint and 
explained his reasoning in detail. So while I recognised this decision wouldnt have satisfied 
Mr B hed been given a comprehensive response to his concerns. And much of the 
complaint he brought to us in 2019 is the same one previously brought in 2013.
Sale of policies in 1993 and investment performance 
Although Mr B accepts the advice to transfer was given by R he holds Royal London 
responsible for providing misleading illustrations upon which the advice was based. Those 
illustrations showing prospective growth of between 8% and 13% seemed realistic at the 
time, but such illustrations required actuaries to make predictions for the performance of 
investments over a period almost three decades into the future, affected by a range of 
economic and political factors which couldnt be foreseen. A pension is a long-term 
investment so consumers can increase their contributions, boosted by tax relief to mitigate 
the lower than anticipated growth. The with-profits fund is a pooled investment scheme, so the risk is shared, and smoothing provides an element of protection from volatility. If Mr B 
was unhappy at the performance of his plans he couldve switched to other products or 
providers, although higher returns often come with increased risk. We wouldnt uphold a 
complaint solely about poor investment returns, as these are never guaranteed. 
I didnt comment about what wouldve happened had Royal London not taken over Scottish 
Life as thats a theoretical question. But I thought the same macro-economic factors affecting 
investment performance wouldve applied. 
Customer service
 
Mr B prefers to receive communications by post rather than email or self-serving online. 
Over the years hes complained about not receiving all his annual statements, and that his 
communications arent always acknowledged or responded to promptly. Mr B said he 
accepted compensation from Royal London but wants an investigation into what he sees as 
a systemic failure. While I appreciated Mr Bs frustration Id seen no evidence to indicate a 
wider problem, or that it caused him a financial loss. As hes no longer a customer of Royal 
London I wouldnt require it to do more. 
Neither Royal London or Mr B responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from it. So 
for the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint and make no award. 
For the avoidance of doubt if Mr B makes further complaints which are essentially the same 
as the ones covered here, this service wont look into them again. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman