DRN-3600440
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains about difficulties using internet banking following changes 
made to the system by Clydesdale Bank Plc.
What happened
M is part of a business grouping with one other limited company - Ill anonymise here as 
company MA - and several firms. Access to the bank accounts online for these businesses 
was being co-ordinated through the director who represents the business grouping in this 
complaint. 
In 2020 he realised that any payments made using online banking were showing in the 
narrative as being made by one of the firms. So, this raised an issue about the source of the 
funds for a transaction. There was a lead firm that brought a complaint about this and was 
paid £200 in compensation for not being told about the issue and as an initial response 
hadnt addressed its concerns. 
The director then tried to migrate all the businesses to a new internet banking system. He 
was unhappy with the administration involved and that access to the system for all 
businesses was lost for a period and not all the firms were added. He wanted company M to 
be the lead business on the system. As there were issues a further complaint was raised this 
time in the name of M. Clydesdale considered the overall issues with the business grouping 
and paid M £300 in compensation.
MA raised a later complaint because it seemed in error to have been made the lead 
business for internet banking and when this was altered was unable to make online 
payments. It raised this with Clydesdale and in the meantime had to make payments by 
CHAPS. 
Our investigator considered Ms complaint separately. He said that M had explained that 
payments it made were showing in the narrative as coming from the lead firm. And it hadnt 
been told that this had started from when there was a systems change at Clydesdale. M was 
to be the lead business going forward on internet banking. And the director was asked to 
complete new forms with authorised signatures for all those businesses. He travelled round 
the country to get these only to find that a scanned copy was acceptable and that signatures 
werent needed as these were held by Clydesdale. M was also wrongly told in a final 
response that payees for online banking would be transferred for the last 12 months. This 
wasnt correct and manual changes had to be made. Clydesdale accepted that there were 
service failings dealing with M. Our investigator said that the compensation reflected what 
had happened.
M didnt agree. It said that it had documented the time spent on dealing with the problems. It 
didnt think that the recommended compensation was any sanction for Clydesdale. It was 
more interested in things happening which would make a difference. M felt its time following 
this up had been wasted and only added to its loss. The final response had contained an 
incorrect statement about the payees transferring across for the past 12 months.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 15 June 2022 and detail below what I said.
I needed to set out first how Id approach this complaint. As I stated above this is one of 
three complaints for the same business group. But these have been dealt with by Clydesdale 
as I understood it by the main business entity that brought each one. The issues are clearly 
overlapping. But I thought its reasonable to think that dealing say with access to internet 
banking had common issues across all businesses and that the compensation reflects the 
actions in the main of each lead business dealing with a particular issue. 
We provide informal dispute resolution and we dont regulate business processes. And if, as 
it seems here, systems changes removed some functionality we wouldnt be asking that it be 
restored. We would look at how that was communicated, and any changes handled. In terms 
of any awards our role isnt to be punitive but to reflect what happened. 
I was looking here at the complaint by M. I am looking separately at the complaints by MA 
and the firm. 
I approached this on the basis that after the complaint by the firm, M was dealing with the 
issues with migration of internet banking. And that was because it then wanted to the lead 
business. While there was paperwork needed I noted from the final response letter of 6 
January 2021 that Clydesdale accepts that it shouldnt have been necessary for M to travel 
to obtain signatures. There was also a loss of access to four accounts without warning and 
at the time of the response access to one firm had still not been restored. Clydesdale said of 
its service that  this is not the level of service we are looking to provide to our customers.
I thought it fair that I considered compensation for M for the impact here. If it wants to 
disperse such compensation to different business entities thats a matter for it to do. But M 
was involved in the administration and dealing with the issues on behalf of the business 
group. It has been considered the complainant by Clydesdale.
There is no evidence of a direct financial loss. The issue about the payment narratives has 
been addressed in the complaint by the firm. But M was inconvenienced with the problems in 
making the transition to a new online system. And as the director explains the existing 
payees didnt migrate as Clydesdale said they would and there was poor service and 
communication.
I said I had taken into account our published guidelines about compensation and applied my 
own judgement. Id looked at the detailed explanation of what happened from the director. 
Having done so I didnt think that the compensation paid is sufficient. There were ongoing 
issues and customer service problems as accepted. And I didnt think that the loss of access 
to the system has been sufficiently recognised. So, I intended to award a further £200 in 
compensation making a total of £500. I thought that this in combination with my 
assessments for MA and the firm is fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale said it accepted my decision.The representative of both M and the other two complainants made some further comments. 
These were grouped as general and specific.
General
The internet linked accounts facility worked perfectly well from 2006 to 2018. It was only 
when the changes were made that the failures occurred. There were none when these were 
first linked in 2006.
The decisions are written as if the representative had decided which entities complained 
about which issues. That was something Clydesdale decreed.
In terms of the general points I recognised that the problems arose due to the systems 
change in 2018. I also accept that Clydesdale chose how to respond to the complaints and 
decided which was the main business entity each time. I have had to issue separate 
decisions for the different legal entities.
Specific
The representative wanted confirmation that some specific points had been taken into 
account and if not asked that they could be. 
I am going to deal with the following specific comment under the complaint for M. This is that 
the wrong source of funds continued after switching and it isnt clear that this is fixed now, 
that the representative couldnt see the details of long standing direct debit and standing 
order payees and that Clydesdale were unable to provide the CSV files that the entities 
accountant used.
In considering this complaint I can confirm that I have taken into account everything that the 
representative has said. And in particular he had produced a timeline of events in a detailed 
document and had highlighted which points related to which complainant. It wasnt practical 
or in my view necessary to detail every issue in my provisional decision and I formed my 
own view about what was reasonable. I saw for example in that document reference to the 
difficulties with the details of past regular payments and obtaining CSV files and instead that 
a PDF file was offered. I can only look at what happened up the point of the complaint.
Having reviewed everything again I remain of the view that the compensation for M is 
reasonable for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. So, I wont be departing from 
that.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay M a 
further £200 making a total of £500.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman