DRN-3030727
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) handled a 
claim he made on a home insurance policy 
What happened
Mr M insures a property with UKI. The kitchen was damaged following an escape of water 
from a damaged pipe. 
UKIs accepted that the claim is covered and has made a cash settlement to Mr M to repair 
the damage. It hasnt covered the costs of permanently repairing the pipe, as it says that the 
policy specifically excludes these costs from cover. 
Mr Ms complained about a number of points to UKI. Hes unhappy about:
The amount paid in cash settlement of the claim.
That UKI wont cover the permanent repair to the pipe.
The conduct of a representative during the claim.
That drying equipment wasnt installed at the property by Direct Line at the outset of 
the claim.
UKI recognised that certain matters could have been dealt with better, particularly around 
the conduct of its representative. It paid £275 in compensation to Mr M.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought that UKI should have 
installed drying equipment sooner and should pay a further £150 compensation. 
Neither UKI or Mr M accepted this, so his complaint has come to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address the various points of Mr Ms complaint separately.
The cash settlement amount
Rather than employ contractor to carry out repairs to Mr Ms property, UKI has made a cash 
settlement to him which it says will cover the required works. Mr M says hes not sure that 
the amount paid is sufficient. 
I havent seen anything from Mr M, such as quotes from contractors or invoices showing the 
amounts paid, to suggest that the amount paid by UKI wont allow Mr M to have the works 
carried out. It seems that UKIs calculations are based on what it would have cost its own 
contractors to carry out the works and Im satisfied this is in line with the policy terms. If Mr M 
has incurred, or incurs costs above this, he should submit evidence of this to UKI for it to 
consider.
Repairs to the pipe
It isnt disputed that the damage to Mr Ms property has been caused by a burst pipe. Mr Ms 
policy says theres cover on the policy for damage caused by water or oil escaping from 
undercover drains and pipes. The policy specifically states We dont cover tanks, pipes, 
appliances or heating systems themselves.  
Im satisfied that the policy terms and conditions are clear here. The policy covers for 
damage caused by a burst pipe, but it doesnt cover the damage to the pipe itself. UKI isnt 
liable for a permanent repair to the pipe.
The conduct of UKIs representative
Mr M has said that a representative of UKI was rude during phone conversations, didnt 
progress the claim sufficiently quickly and also continued to make phone contact when hed 
requested contact in writing.
The particular phone call which Mr M referred to is, I understand, unavailable as due to 
phone issues it was made by the representative on their own mobile phone. I dont think it 
would be reasonable for me to comment on the call as I cant assess what happened. But 
UKI seems to have accepted that Mr M was upset by the representatives actions. It also 
isnt disputed that although Mr M had asked for further contact to be by email, the 
representative in question made further phone calls to him. UKIs rightly acknowledged this 
shouldnt have happened.
UKIs representative asked for photographs of the damage to be sent to it rather than 
appointing an agent to carry out an inspection of the damage. I understand the reasons for 
this were to minimise visits during the Covid-19 pandemic and related restrictions. But its 
also clear that Mr M wasnt comfortable with this and would have been prepared to 
accommodate a visit to the property. I think UKI could have been more proactive in having 
the damage inspected, or given clearer guidance to Mr M about what it needed from him.
The use of drying equipment
Following the escape of water, drying equipment was known to be required to dry out the 
property before the repairs could be carried out. During Mr Ms early discussions with UKI 
about the claim, the need for this was mentioned. UKIs position is that Mr M said he wanted 
to seek advice from contractors about the works required, which they took to include the use 
of drying equipment.
Its apparent that Mr M wasnt familiar with what would need to be done in order to properly 
repair his property. On the other hand, UKI knew that drying equipment was required and 
that the drying would need to be completed before repairs could be carried out. I cant see 
that Mr M was told about the importance of having drying equipment installed at the earliest 
opportunity, in order to expedite the repairs. 
Putting things right
Ive concluded that there were aspects of the claim which could have been handled better 
beyond what UKI has already acknowledged. I can see that the matters Ive highlighted 
above have caused inconvenience to Mr M and left him unsure as to what was required in 
order to progress the claim and repairs. I do note that any delays which arose from these issues were relatively minor.
Our investigator thought UKI should pay an additional £150 in compensation to Mr M 
(making £425 in total). I agree that this is an appropriate amount taking into account the 
issues and the effect of them.
 My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, U K 
Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line must pay £150 compensation to Mr M (making £425 
in total). It must pay this amount within 28 days of us telling it that Mr M accepts this 
decision. If it does not, it must pay interest on this amount at rate of 8% simple per year from 
that date until the date of settlement.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman