DRN-2911182
The complaint
Mr S says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
when he took out a further advance loan attached to his existing mortgage in 1989. 
What happened
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ss complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. Mr S 
disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr S, so Ill explain why. 
Mr S says that Bradford & Bingley that he wasnt able to take out the loan without also taking 
out PPI. His representative also added that as Mr S was in need of the loan that the 
salesperson involved manipulated him into taking out the PPI  and that there mustve been 
some bias due to Mr Ss race.
I wasnt there at the time, so I cant know what was said during the meeting  and neither 
Mr S or his representative havent provided much detail or evidence to support what they 
have said  but I wouldnt expect this due to how long ago the sale took place.
And so, I have to base my decision on the information I do have. Bradford & Bingley have 
provided paperwork from the time that the sale took place. This shows that the PPI was 
presented as optional, and that Mr S didnt need to take it out. Mr S has signed this 
paperwork, agreeing to take out the PPI. 
I understand that Mr Ss representative feels that Mr S wouldve been manipulated into 
signing this paperwork. But I havent seen anything to suggest that he was. The paperwork 
is clear, and Mr S couldve questioned why he was told he had to take out PPI, when the 
paperwork said differently. Mr S had also previously taken out lending with Bradford & 
Bingley without PPI, so I think he was aware that he was able to borrow money without 
taking a policy.
So, on balance, I think that Bradford & Bingley made it clear that Mr S had a choice in taking 
out the PPI  and that he chose to do so.
Mr Ss representative has also said that Mr S was desperate to get the loan to pay off an 
overdraft  and that he was persuaded to say that the loan was for home improvements as 
this was the only way that the loan would be available to him, although he was reluctant to 
do so. They say this is supported by the fact that the overdraft is mentioned on the 
paperwork. 
The paperwork shows that Mr S required a loan of £50,000  and details the improvements 
Mr S declared he was going to make to his home. It also declares an overdraft with a 
different financial institution, showing a payment of £6 per month going towards this. So, it 
doesnt appear that the overdraft was actually £50,000  or that Mr S needed the money 
solely to clear this. 
But in any event, I dont think that the purpose of the loan changes my findings on Mr S 
being given a choice in taking out the policy  or course it is possible that Mr S may not have 
been using the funds in the way suggested in the paperwork, but it was still his choice to 
borrow the funds, and take out the PPI.
Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S  that is to say it didnt provide advice 
about the suitability of the PPI for Mr S. It wasnt a service it provided at the time. Instead, it 
needed to provide Mr S with enough information for him to decide if the policy was right for 
him.
Some of the information Bradford & Bingley provided to Mr S may not have been a clear as it 
shouldve been but based on what Mr S has said about his personal circumstances, it looks 
like the PPI couldve been useful for him. 
Mr S has told us that he had rainy day money set aside, that would cover his expenses for 
18 months  so he didnt need the PPI. He also says that he could have relied on family if he 
needed to. 
But the PPI couldve covered Mr S for longer that the savings he says that he had  and as 
Mr S suggests that he was desperate to get the loan, it seems that it was important to him 
not to have to spend the money he had set aside. And while family are often keen to help 
out, peoples circumstances can change, and ultimately the repayment of the loan was 
Mr Ss responsibility.
Mr S has also told us that he had some long-standing medical issues. These arent declared 
on his PPI application form. The section relating the medical conditions says no above 
where Mr S has signed. Mr Ss representative says that he was asked about his health, but 
as he didnt take any medication, or take any time of work due to them, he didnt need to 
declare them. 
Again, I cant know what was discussed at the time  but it seems like Mr S either didnt 
have any existing medical conditions at the time, or didnt think that the medical conditions 
werent serious enough for him to ever need to claim for such a condition. 
That said, looking at the policy document, it looks like the condition Mr S has described 
would be covered, given what hes said about the severity of the condition and that he hadnt 
received any medication for it.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr S and his representative have said, but the points 
raised dont change my conclusion. And for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Other considerations  The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need 
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But there are certain types of mortgage agreement this doesnt apply to  one of which is
whats known as a regulated mortgage. From the information Ive seen, Mr Ss mortgage 
(which includes the loan) became regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008  and so I dont 
think Bradford & Bingley have to refund any of the commission paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman