DRN-4252783
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) will not refund money 
they lost to an investment scam. 
Mr and Mrs C are represented by a claims management company (the CMC). Mr C made 
the transfers and has been dealing with the complaint, so Ill mostly refer to Mr C in this 
decision.
What happened 
Around February 2021, Mr C was introduced to a company, which Ill call S, by a family 
friend of forty years. The friend said he had invested with S, which traded cryptocurrency on 
his behalf, was making excellent returns, and that hed received a dividend. The friend 
showed Mr C Ss online portal, which showed the returns hed received. 
Mr C looked online and found positive reviews. He also looked at Ss website and compared 
the numbers to other websites and felt it looked right. 
Mr C provided his contact details to S and was called by its representative, who was very 
convincing in what he told him  in line with what his friend had said. As a result, Mr C was 
persuaded to invest. 
S advised Mr C to open an account with a legitimate cryptocurrency platform, which Ill call 
B. Mr C was told to transfer money to his crypto wallet at B, use this to purchase 
cryptocurrency, then forward the cryptocurrency to S. The CMC says that S helped Mr C 
with this process by taking remote control of his device, but Mr C didnt mention this when 
speaking to our investigator. 
Between 1 March 2021, when Mr C made the first payment, and 13 April 2021, Mr C sent 
£149,020 to S. Mr C had access to an online portal on Ss website and was very happy with 
the returns that were shown there. Even to the extent that in one call with RBS he discussed 
the great returns he was getting and encourages the RBS employee to check out S. 
On 13 May 2021, S contacted Mr C to say there had been a margin call and he had to 
deposit a further £50,000 or risk losing all of the money he had invested. He made this 
payment on the understanding it would be refunded soon afterwards. But when he contacted 
S to ask for this money to be returned, S ceased all contact with him, and Mr C realised he 
had been scammed. 
On 19 May 2021, Mr C contacted RBS to say he thought he had been the victim of a scam 
and to ask for help recovering the money. RBS said that because the payments had been 
made to his own account at B, it was not in a position to help, and Mr C should pursue the 
matter with B instead. 
The CMC then made a complaint on Mr Cs behalf. It said that, Mr C was vulnerable at time 
of scam, and the transactions were out of character for Mr C. The CMC felt that RBS 
shouldve intervened when he tried to make the payments and had it done so, it could have 
prevented the loss. 
RBS didnt agree saying that the payments were not identified or stopped by RBSs security 
system because they did not meet the fraud trends at that time. It added that the payments 
were made to Mr Cs own account at B, which would not be deemed suspicious. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and did not uphold the complaint. She thought 
that although RBS shouldve intervened when an unusual payment of £10,000 was made, it 
wouldnt have made any difference because Mr C had seen his friend getting good returns 
and had found no warnings about S when researching himself. And RBS couldnt have done 
any more in an attempt to recover the money. 
Unhappy with this, the CMC asked on Mr Cs behalf for the complaint to be decided by an 
ombudsman.
In my provisional decision of 30 June 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. RBS didnt make any comments. The CMC did make some 
additional submission which I will address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Having thought very carefully about what happened, I have decided not to uphold this 
complaint  for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. I appreciate that Mr C will be 
disappointed by this, and Im very sorry for what has happened to him. But, based on what 
Ive seen, I cant reasonably ask RBS to reimburse him for any of his losses. 
To begin with, where customers authorise payments from their accounts, businesses such 
as RBS are under an obligation to process such transfers. If consumers are the victim of a 
scam (like Mr C), the starting point is that consumers have to bear the losses. To be clear, 
RBS did not scam Mr C and it is not the perpetrator of the scam. 
So, even though its not in question that Mr C was tricked into sending the money by 
scammers, because he authorised these payments, he starts off on the back foot when it 
comes to getting the money returned, because RBS was following a valid instruction. 
However, financial businesses also have a duty to try to prevent their customers falling 
victim to scams. Businesses therefore need to strike a balance between intervening with 
payments to prevent scams or financial harm against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions. 
In order for me to uphold a complaint of this nature, and hold RBS liable for the losses 
instead of Mr C, Id need to be satisfied that RBS failed in its duty to protect Mr C in some 
way, and that if it had instead done what it should have done, this either would have stopped 
the losses from occurring in the first place or helped to mitigate the losses once notified of 
the potential scam (by retrieving the money, for example). 
Mr C made several payments to an account he held with B before converting it to 
cryptocurrency and sending it on to S to trade on his behalf. For the avoidance of any doubt, there is no indication that B was involved in this illicit scheme, other than its exchange 
platform was used to facilitate Mr Cs payments to S. 
Between the 25 February 2021 and 15 March 2021, Mr C made several payments ranging 
from £500 to £3,500 from his RBS account to B. I dont think any of these payments are 
significant enough to have warranted an intervention by RBS. The transactions Mr C sent to 
B were for relatively small amounts. I appreciate these amounts might amount to a lot of 
money for many consumers, but when compared to the thousands of transactions a 
business like RBS processes  none of them are sufficiently significant figures that I would 
expect to trigger alarm bells. It is common for many consumers to transfer money like this to 
their online platform like B quite frequently to trade online and many of these transactions 
are completely legitimate.
In the absence of any other concerning factors known to RBS, I dont think these 
transactions would have been flagged as suspicious. RBS says it did not intervene because 
the payments did not meet the fraud trends at that time and they were made to Mr Cs own 
account at B, so would not seem suspicious.
On the 26 March 2021, Mr C transferred £10,000 into his account held with B. This is 
significantly more than he has previously sent and not in line with the usual activity on his 
account. So, at this point, I think RBS ought to have intervened and asked Mr B about this 
transaction to ascertain whether he was at risk of financial harm. I understand Mr C made 
this transfer on the phone and spoke to an RBS advisor  so RBS had the opportunity to 
discuss this transaction with Mr C in detail. Although the banks representative did ask Mr C 
some questions with a view to identifying some common scams, the questions were not 
aimed at identifying cryptocurrency investment scams such as the one Mr C fell victim to. 
I think this intervention on the part of RBS was insufficient. So, Ive gone on to think about 
what I think most likely would have happened if RBS had flagged this transaction as 
suspicious and discussed this transaction with Mr C. But having considered the specific facts 
of this case, Im not persuaded that even if RBS had asked more probing questions that 
Mr Cs answers would have been overly disconcerting for RBS and Ill explain why. 
The CMC has pointed out that this scam had some typical themes of cryptocurrency scams 
such as transferring money to an online platform in the consumers own name before 
transferring the money on to the scammers. But this is also how many legitimate trades are 
carried out. The CMC has added that S took remote control over Mr Cs devices. But its not 
clear when this took place, and, in fairness, if remote access did indeed happen at some 
point, I must bear in mind that Mr C did not mention this to our investigator when discussing 
what had happened. Accordingly, I have to bear in mind the possibility that he might also not 
have mentioned it to RBS.
In any event, I also have to consider that Mr C had decided to invest with S having been 
recommended by a family friend of forty years or so. By his own admission, he trusted this 
friend who had prospered from the investment, and Mr C had also researched online 
himself, finding positive reviews. This type of introduction is not in line with how these scams 
companies usually contact their consumers  and I think this holds significant weight. I think 
if RBS had spoken to Mr C, given these factors, I think it likely would have been enough for 
RBS to have been satisfied that there was unlikely a risk of harm. 
I would add that by the time of this payment, Mr C had already invested with S previously 
and was happy with the returns he believed were showing in his account with S. In my view, 
even if RBS had at this time mentioned the possibility that this might be a scam, considering 
all of these factors (the faith he had in his longstanding friends experience, his own research 
and what he could see on Ss portal) I think its likely that Mr C would have remained confident with going ahead with the payment. So, I dont think an intervention at this stage 
would have prevented the loss. 
On 31 March 2021, a £30,020 payment was made using a CHAPS payment. In the initial call 
to RBS about this payment, Mr C discussed S and the returns he was achieving. It is clear 
that the scammers were using real-world events to prompt Mr C into investing more money  
and that Mr C was happy this had been successful previously. Mr C was keen to make the 
payment as quickly as possible and it is clear from this call that Mr C was very happy with S 
 to the extent he was suggesting the bank representative look into it with a view to investing 
himself.  The call ended with Mr C waiting for a call from the payments team. 
I think this call is telling and reflects the Mr Cs thought process at the time. I think its evident 
that Mr C was now completely confident with S and it would have taken something 
significant to have persuaded him otherwise. I dont think there is anything RBS could have 
told him at this stage that would have altered his behaviour or stopped him from sending any 
further funds. 
Mr C has also subsequently told us that his daughter also invested with S and lost her 
money too  this further demonstrates how much faith Mr C had in S at the time. Besides 
this, as far as I am reasonably aware, throughout the sequence of payments that Mr C 
made, his long-term friend had also not experienced any compelling problems with S. Whats 
more, the information about S available in the public domain did not portray any real concern 
 the reviews at the material time appear to be broadly positive, and not compelling as to it 
being illegitimate or unlawful.  
Over the coming weeks, Mr C then went on to make several other large transfers, but by this 
point Mr C had established a pattern of payments to B. It was clear that Mr C was happy with 
what he was doing. And I dont think these payments shouldve triggered any further 
intervention. I dont think these would have stood out as unusual or uncharacteristic based 
on Mr Cs account activity.
Recovery
Im satisfied that RBS did what it could in an attempt to recover the funds. It was told about 
the scam on 19 May 2021. It contacted the receiving bank the same day to ask if the money 
could be returned. But since this money had been converted to cryptocurrency and 
forwarded onto the scammer by Mr C, the receiving bank no longer had this. So, there was 
no way for RBS to recover the funds. 
Summary
Ultimately, I am not satisfied that RBS could have stopped and prevented Mr Cs losses. 
Even if it had intervened to discuss the payments with him (as I think it should have done in 
line with its duty of care), Im not convinced that appropriate questioning and warnings from 
RBS would have persuaded Mr C not to proceed with the transactions (or those that 
followed). I also think RBS acted reasonably to try to recover the funds when the scam was 
reported by Mr C. So, I dont think its fair to hold RBS liable for the losses and I dont intend 
to ask it to refund these payments. 
The CMC disagreed with my provisional decision for the following reasons: 
The CMC reiterates that the conversations RBS had with Mr C were extremely poor 
and they feel if RBS had intervened appropriately, Mr C would have been stopped 
from sending the payments.It feels that RBSs comments regarding the scam not meeting fraud trends at the time 
is incorrect as it was a very common scam. 
They add that the friend who introduced Mr C to the scam company was also a 
vulnerable victim of the scam and was an inexperienced investor himself.
That RBS ought to have asked more probing questions such as whether the 
scammers took remote access of his devices; whether he was being coached by a 
third party;  and whether when Mr C sought to withdraw money from the company, 
the scammers asked for fees, which was another theme of the scam. The CMC feels 
that its likely that RBS would therefore have exposed the scam. 
Firstly, as set out in my provisional decision, I agree that the conversations RBS staff 
members had with Mr C were inadequate and they could have and ought to have asked 
more questions. I also agree that these sorts of scams have now been around for a number 
of years and we would expect financial business to be aware of the way these scams work 
and ask suitable questions when speaking to their customers. 
However, while I have thought very carefully about the CMCs comments, I am still not 
satisfied that suitable questioning would have revealed the scam during the £10,000 call or 
£30,000 call. I say this mainly because I feel that, while the CMC has pointed out some 
concerning factors, overall I dont think there would likely have been enough information 
available to RBS during the calls that would have enabled it to have definitively identified this 
as a scam. I also dont think, given Mr Cs state of mind during these calls, that even if RBS 
had warned him and the possibility that this might be a scam, that Mr C would have been 
persuaded to not send the payments. 
When assessing whether an intervention would likely have worked, I have to consider the 
overall picture that likely would have been presented to RBS, not one or two things that 
might have been concerning. And I also need to think about how a consumer would likely 
have responded to the business based on the facts and circumstances available. 
As explained in my provisional decision, Mr Cs introduction to the scam company is not in 
line with what we usually see in this type of scam. The conversation that we would expect 
RBS to have with consumers, and the amount of probing that would be deemed appropriate 
would depend on the answers Mr C gave RBS. Business have to judge whether something 
warrants further exploration and act reasonably based on the information available to them. 
We have to be mindful, that many of these transfers made to cryptocurrency exchanges are 
legitimate and we wouldnt want customers who are carrying out legitimate transfers to be 
interrogated without good reason and delay transactions unnecessarily. 
Mr C set out in detail what his experience of the scam was, in a lengthy call with our 
investigator, and not once did he mention the scammers taking remote access of his 
devices. While the CMC has reiterated that this was used, we still havent been provided 
with any detail as to when and how this happened. So as explained in my provisional 
decision, I have to consider the possibility that he wouldnt have told RBS about that either. 
I would add that Mr C did his own research and didnt find anything concerning about the 
company. He also felt the return rates were comparable to other websites  again normally 
we see promised return rates that are too good to be true.
As Ive explained earlier, Mr C told us that his daughter invested with S and this 
demonstrates how much faith Mr C had in S at the time. And while I understand Mr Cs 
friend also fell victim to this scam, my understanding is that when Mr C actually made the 
payments, his long-term friend had not experienced any compelling problems with S. 
Additionally, information about S available in the public domain did not portray any concern 
with reviews being broadly positive, and nothing suggesting it was a scam. Demanding fees during the withdrawal of the investment is a typical theme of this type of 
scam, but this didnt happen until much later on in the process and long after the calls with 
RBS. So, this information wouldnt have been available to Mr C or RBS during the transfers 
that I think RBS ought to have intervened on. And Ive already explained why we wouldnt 
expect RBS to intervene in the payments that followed. 
Having a coach is likely to be only known theme of the scam that mightve warranted any 
concerns, but against the backdrop of the all the other information that Mr C likely would 
have given to RBS, I dont think that alone would have been enough for RBS to have 
stepped in and stopped the payments. It could potentially have discussed this concern with 
Mr C. But Ive already explained in my provisional decision that, given how taken in Mr C 
was with S, I dont think any discussions around this alone would have altered Mr Cs 
behaviour in any event. 
While Ive thought carefully about the CMCs comments and appreciate the time they have 
taken to make further representations, Im still not satisfied that, had RBS done what it ought 
to have done, in line with its duty of care, and asked appropriately probing questions, that it 
could have prevented the loss. So, while I am again very sorry for the losses Mr and Mrs C 
have suffered, I dont think RBS should be held liable for the losses. With all this in mind, I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman