DRN-4495981
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the online process for renewing their buy-to-let (BTL) 
mortgage interest rate product with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI). 
They say that, as a result of confusing information on BOIs customer portal, they 
accidentally applied for a new BTL mortgage rather than an interest rate renewal. By the 
time the confusion was resolved, interest rates had increased. Mr and Mrs B want BOI to 
reduce the interest rate on their mortgage.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. 
Briefly, Mr and Mrs B have a BTL mortgage with BOI. In September 2022 the interest rate 
product attached to the mortgage was about to expire and Mr and Mrs B were sent a letter 
inviting them to apply for a new rate online.
The customer portal invited them to See my rates (highlighted in blue), which, if clicked, 
would have shown them the interest rates they could have applied for. However, instead 
Mr and Mrs B clicked Apply for a new BTL mortgage, which was further down the screen 
and started the process for a new BTL product.
They were given an illustration for an interest rate product of 3.88% fixed for five years  a 
rate only available to new business customers. However, because Mr and Mrs B were 
already BTL customers, the application couldnt proceed and it was declined. This then 
prevented Mr and Mrs B from applying for a new rate online. By the time they were able to 
secure a new interest rate product in December 2022, rates had increased from 4.69% (the 
lowest rate Mr and Mrs B could have had in September 2022) to 5.79%, applicable from 
January 2023.
Mr and Mrs B complained to BOI. BOI said that an initial issue concerning the name on the 
application wasnt the reason the application was declined. The bank explained that the 
application had been declined because Mr and Mrs B, as existing borrowers, werent eligible 
to apply for a new business mortgage.
BOI explained that Mr and Mrs B would never have been eligible for the 3.88% rate theyd 
wanted, as this was only available to new customers. BOI recognised its communication 
could have been better and offered £75 compensation.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this and brought their complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened and thought the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought Mr and Mrs B had made a genuine mistake in applying for a new BTL mortgage 
rather than a rate switch. 
The investigator asked BOI to compensate Mr and Mrs B for the difference in payments 
between the 4.79% product theyd have been eligible for in September 2022 and the 5.79% 
product they took out over the five-year term, plus simple interest of 8% per annum. She was 
satisfied that the compensation BOI had paid for distress and inconvenience of £75 was fair.
Mr and Mrs B agreed with the investigators findings, but BOI did not. The bank provided 
screenshots of the process to follow for a rate switch, and disputed that Mr and Mrs B had 
accidentally applied for a new mortgage. The bank didnt think the investigators outcome 
was fair and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
Provisional decision of 20 November 2023
I reached the following provisional conclusions.
Mr and Mrs B acknowledge that they received a letter telling them that if they wanted 
to renew the interest rate on their BTL mortgage they could do so through BOIs 
customer hub. Ive looked at the screenshots of what Mr and Mrs B would have seen. 
I can see the green highlighted section which says 
Youre able to switch your rate! 
Click See my rates to view the mortgage rates available to you, then apply 
when youre ready.
There is a highlighted button which says See my rates. This is followed by a 
mortgage summary showing the existing mortgage products the customers have, 
showing the interest rate, the balance and the monthly payment. Above the mortgage 
product details is another box which says Switch to a new deal  apply today. 
At the foot of the screen are two other boxes, not highlighted, which say Start a new 
residential mortgage application and Start a new Buy to Let mortgage application.
Mr and Mrs B say they were confused by the portal and so rather than click the 
highlighted box that says See my rates they instead went to the bottom of the 
screen and clicked Start a new Buy to Let mortgage application, which ultimately 
led to the chain of events described above.
If Mr and Mrs B had clicked the See my rates box, this would have taken them to 
that part of the customer portal which showed the rates available for their mortgage. 
They would then have been able to select the mortgage account for which they 
wanted a new rate and choose the rate they wanted, being prompted throughout for 
such things as payment of any product fee and giving options to add the fee to the 
mortgage, reduce the mortgage term, etc before providing confirmation of what has 
been selected. (BOI does not provide an advisory service for BTL mortgages, so this 
is an execution-only process.)
I dont think that the information presented by BOI on its portal is unclear. I also think 
its unlikely that BOI told Mr and Mrs B that lots of customers make the same mistake 
and accidentally apply for new business mortgages rather than product switches. 
Given this, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs B were confused by incorrect or 
misleading information on the portal into applying for a new mortgage rather than a 
product switch. Consequently, I do not think it would be fair or reasonable for BOI to be expected to 
compensate Mr and Mrs B for the difference in interest rates that they could have 
had if theyd followed the correct process in September 2022 and the rate they took 
out from January 2023. 
I can see there was some confusion after the application was submitted, because it 
was initially being processed as a new business application, and BOI had thought it 
was submitted through a broker. But I can see that on 16 September 2022 the bank 
told Mr B that there was an option on the customer hub to get a new deal. 
Unfortunately by that point the new mortgage application had been declined, 
because it wasnt something for which Mr and Mrs B were ever eligible to apply, 
being existing customers. This then blocked them from applying for a new rate 
online. Unsurprisingly, staff at BOI were also confused about what had happened. 
However, I note that Mr and Mrs B acknowledged on 4 October 2022 that they were 
aware that the issue was that theyd not gone through the correct process.
I concluded that BOI was not required to compensate Mr and Mrs B for the difference 
between the interest rate they could have had if theyd switched in September 2022 and the 
rate they took out in January 2023. I did think that, for lack of clarity in its communication in 
late September/early October 2022, BOI should pay an additional £75 compensation on top 
of the £75 already paid, £150 in total.
Responses to the provisional decision
BOI accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs B did not. Mr B said I was biased and 
asked for the case to be passed to a different ombudsman. He also made some detailed 
comments, which I summarise below.
he had just logged into the portal again and could not see any see my rates button so it 
is understandable this was missed at the time;
he is unhappy that his integrity is being questioned;
BOI should have done more to resolve their query about why the application hadnt gone 
through;
this was a BTL, not a business, mortgage, so he is confused about reference to new 
business;
it would have been better if he could have gone into his local BOI branch and made the 
application in person.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs B are unhappy at my provisional decision, and Ive taken 
careful note of all the comments Mr B has made. However, after reconsidering the case from 
the outset, including Mr Bs further points, I am still not persuaded that BOI is at fault.
First, I apologise if I offended Mr B, and I can assure him that I was not questioning his 
integrity. I will clarify my point; I think that if multiple customers were making the same 
mistake, suggesting a systemic failure on BOIs portal to draw the attention of customers to 
new rates and the correct process to follow, the bank would have identified and addressed 
this. The mistake would have meant that customers would have had to ignore the invitation in the 
green banner to click the See my rates box, ignore the box itself (which, is prominent) and 
then scroll down to a box that is not prominent to apply for a new BTL mortgage. I am not 
persuaded that multiple customers were doing this, because the process as outlined in the 
screenshots provided (and which Mr and Mrs B have copies of) is intuitive, directing the 
customer to the correct process. 
It is more difficult in my opinion to select the wrong option (scrolling down to the end to apply 
for a new mortgage) than the right one (clicking the box immediately below the banner to see 
the new available rates and following the steps from there to pick a new rate).
Mr B provided a screenshot hed taken in November 2023 which, he says, does not have a 
See my rates button to click. I agree with Mr B; his screenshot doesnt show a See my 
rates button, nor would I expect it to. That is because, at the moment, there are no new 
rates available to Mr and Mrs B for this mortgage, because they have only recently taken out 
a new product and are tied into it. The See my rates button would only appear at the point 
where customers are entitled to apply for new rates because their existing products are 
about to expire, as was the case in September 2022. 
Although Mr B believes the screenshot he has now provided supports his case, it in fact 
does the opposite. Thats because Mr Bs screenshot says, prominently at the top:  Switch 
this account to a new rate from 01/08/2027. Your new rate will start when your current fixed 
rate ends. There would be no reason for BOI to signpost Mr and Mrs B to a new rate when 
there are none available. Instead, BOI has highlighted when the current rate will end. 
Mr and Mrs B are almost four years away from the point where BOI will be able to offer a 
new rate on this mortgage, and so there is, of course, no See my rates box available to 
them in 2023.
I dont think BOI is at fault for not identifying the issue earlier; the application had been made 
as new business (as clarified above) with a fresh application form. I therefore dont think it 
would have been obvious to the staff that deal with new business applications that this was 
meant to have been a rate renewal.
Ill clarify that the reference to new business simply means an application from customers 
who are applying for a new mortgage. There is therefore no confusion on my part. 
Mr and Mrs B had started a new mortgage application, and so it was considered new 
business by BOI. However, for the sake of clarity, I will explain that BTL mortgages are a 
type of commercial mortgage because the borrowers are using the property to generate 
income and capital growth as an investment.
I fully accept that Mr and Mrs B would have preferred to have made their application for a 
rate switch in person, in a branch. However, that is not part of BOIs business model. I dont 
have any power to tell BOI how to run its business. In common with modern banking 
practice, mortgage administration is largely a centralised process, and isnt something that 
falls within the scope of day-to-day branch banking activity.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs B made a genuine mistake in applying for a new BTL 
mortgage rather than following the onscreen process to apply for a rate switch. I appreciate 
that they believe that this is because BOI didnt make the process sufficiently clear. But as 
Ive explained in both my provisional decision and above, Im not persuaded that BOI is at 
fault as I am satisfied that the process to follow was clear. 
If Mr and Mrs B are experiencing any difficulty in paying the mortgage, they should speak to 
BOI about this. As this is an unregulated mortgage, the protections put in place by the regulator for residential mortgage customers dont apply here. However, BOI is still required 
to treat Mr and Mrs B fairly and sympathetically if they are suffering financial hardship.
Putting things right
Neither Mr and Mrs B nor BOI has challenged my award of £150 (including £75 already paid) 
for distress and inconvenience caused by poor communication arising from the confusion in 
the new BTL application, so I can see no basis on which to amend this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc must pay Mr and Mrs B compensation of 
£150 (including £75 already paid) in full and final settlement of this complaint. I make no 
other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman