DRN-3693503
The complaint
Mr J complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr J was lent one loan in June 2016. The loan was for £750 repayable in 77 weekly 
instalments of £39.56. The total repayable on the loan at the end of the term was around 
£3,085.
When Mr J complained to L2G it didnt uphold his complaint so he referred it to this service 
where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator though L2G did enough 
before agreeing to lend and its checks didnt raise any concerns so he didnt recommend 
that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr J disagreed and the complaint has been passed to me  an ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
L2G needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.  
L2G has provided evidence to show that it asked Mr J about his monthly income and 
expenditure and searched its credit file. Mr J declared his income as £2,816.67 and his total 
living costs including credit commitments as £390. L2G says it verified the information Mr J 
provided through a credit reference agency. Its verification showed Mr Js monthly income as 
£1,936.70 and his monthly living costs as £1,483.50.
The credit file results showed Mr J had a number of historic defaults, while most had been 
settled, he had at least two active defaults. He also had an active CCJ at the time. Mr J had 
a low usage of credit with repayments towards a loan and a hire purchase and so there was 
no concern raised about Mr J being reliant on credit.
The results of L2G checks showed Mr G had sufficient disposable income to repay the loan 
over the term. And while L2G could have taken its checks further, I dont know what it would 
have seen as Mr J has been unable to provide his bank statements from around the time of 
the loan.
Based on the information I have, I dont think L2G was wrong to lend to Mr J and so I wont 
be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman