DRN-2105570
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, blocked a payment 
when he tried to use his credit card. He says this caused him to miss out on earning reward 
points. Hes also unhappy with the level of service he received. 
What happened
Mr S has a credit card with Barclaycard. Its a branded card linked to a well-known hotel 
chain, and Mr S earns reward points when he uses it for spending.
In December 2019, Mr S attempted to buy plane tickets with the credit card, but the 
transaction was blocked by Barclaycards fraud prevention measures. Mr S called 
Barclaycard to confirm the transaction was genuine. But he ended the call without speaking 
to anyone because he said he was on hold for too long. He said that he waited for around 20 
minutes. Mr S has said because he couldnt speak with anyone, he used another card to buy 
the tickets.
Mr S raised a complaint about the service he received. And in December 2019 he was 
awarded £40 for the inconvenience of the transaction being blocked. But in January 2020, 
Mr S contacted Barclaycard again to say he was still unhappy. He wanted his account to be 
credited with the points hed lost out on, as well as some further compensation for poor 
service.
Barclaycard sent its final response to Mr S on 30 January 2020. It said the transaction was 
identified by its internal fraud prevention systems, but the necessary process had been 
correctly followed. So it didnt offer to credit Mr Ss account with the reward points he 
wouldve earned if hed used his Barclaycard to buy the tickets. It did acknowledge, though, 
that there were some shortcomings in the service it had provided. Barclaycards final 
response said it recognised that it had made a mistake in a letter when it said it had spoken 
to Mr S, and that it hadnt responded to Mr S in time. So it offered him £250 in 
compensation.
Mr S remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to our service. An investigator here has 
looked into the complaint, and he thought Barclaycard acted fairly. While he said he could 
appreciate this wouldve been frustrating, he was satisfied that Barclaycard hadnt done 
anything wrong when it blocked the transaction. He also said Mr S had chosen to use 
another card. So he didnt think Barclaycard made an error in not giving Mr S the reward 
points. He thought £250 was enough to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr S.
 
Mr S disagreed. He said the £250 offer was compensation for Barclaycards service  not for 
the complaint that hed made. The investigator reconsidered but he didnt change his mind. 
He reiterated that Barclaycard hadnt made an error, and that he thought £250 was a fair and 
reasonable offer of compensation overall. 
Mr S remained unhappy, so he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Barclaycard needs to do anything more. Ill explain why.
 
Mr S earns reward points when he makes purchases using his Barclaycard. Its clear that 
didnt happen here  so Ive thought about the reasons why Mr S didnt use his credit card, 
and whether Barclaycard acted fairly.
  
Barclaycard said the transaction was blocked because it was flagged by its fraud prevention 
system. Having checked the terms and conditions of Mr Ss credit card, Im satisfied 
Barclaycard can impose restrictions to prevent suspected fraud. I can appreciate this would 
have been frustrating for Mr S at the time. But Barclaycard is entitled to take security 
measures to protect both itself and its customers, so I dont think it did anything wrong when 
it blocked the transaction. 
To confirm the transaction as genuine, Mr S needed to speak to Barclaycard. Ive seen that 
he did attempt to do this. Mr S said he waited to speak to someone for around 20 minutes, 
and he thinks this was excessive. On balance, though, I dont think that is an excessive time 
to wait. Particularly considering the call took place during the Christmas period. But, because 
Mr S was kept waiting, he didnt manage to speak to anyone, so he chose to end the call 
and use another card to complete the transaction. I think thats key here. Because, while I 
can understand Mr S might not have wanted to wait for his call to be answered, it was, 
ultimately, his decision to end the call and buy the tickets with a different card which didnt 
offer the same benefits the Barclaycard did. So because Mr S chose to use a different card, 
it follows that Im not persuaded hes entitled to the reward points he wouldve received if 
hed used his Barclaycard. 
Ive seen from Barclaycards contact notes that Mr S has been paid £40 for the 
inconvenience of the transaction being blocked. And I think thats fair in the circumstances, 
because while the block caused Mr S some inconvenience, I dont think Barclaycard acted 
unreasonably. 
I also note Barclaycard has made Mr S an offer of £250 in respect of the level of service he 
received and how it handled his complaint.  In correspondence with this service Barclaycard 
has said there were inaccuracies in its final response letter. Its said these caused an error in 
the amount of compensation it offered but, nonetheless, Barclaycard is happy to honour it. 
Mr S says the £250 offer is derisory. But I dont see things quite the same. In fact, the offer 
is more than Id usually award in similar circumstances. Having said that, Barclaycard 
accepts that Mr Ss complaint couldve been handled better and said it will honour the £250 
originally offered to Mr S. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the offer is more than 
enough to recognise the overall distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S in relation to the 
service he received and how Barclaycard handled his complaint. So I dont think Barclaycard 
needs to do anything more than it has already agreed to do to put things right in this matter. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, has made an offer I think is fair in all the 
circumstances. So I instruct it to pay Mr S £250 as its offered to do.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman