DRN-3071673
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about the amount Advantage Insurance Company Limited paid for his car in 
settlement of his car insurance policy claim.  
What happened
Mr Bs car was destroyed by fire and so he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
Advantage deemed the car a total loss and initially valued it at £6,950 but they increased 
their valuation to £7,899.
 
Mr B doesnt agree with Advantages valuation and says it should be between £1,000 and 
£1,500 more. He says his car was in good condition and had £5,180 worth of optional extras 
added to it. He also says it was the most powerful of the diesel versions of the model.
 
Advantage said they used valuation guides to work out the market value of Mr Bs car and 
offered the average of the guides they looked at. They also said of the optional extras in    
Mr Bs car only the leather seats and rear parking distance control added to its value.
 
Our investigator carried out their own research and concluded that Advantages valuation 
was too low. He said Advantage should increase their valuation to £8,225.34. Advantage 
hasnt accepted the investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Bs policy, Advantage must pay him the market value of his car, 
less his excess.
The policy defines market value as:
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use 
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary 
allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the circumstances in which you 
bought it.
I understand Mr B says he bought his car for around £9,900, but I dont think that means 
Advantage need to pay him the price he paid when he purchased it. This is because, the 
policy only requires Advantage to pay the cars market value immediately before the loss. 
And a car may be bought for more or less than its market value. While I appreciate Mr B 
purchased his car a few weeks prior to the incident, I dont think it means he paid its market 
value. So, the issue for me to decide is whether Advantage has treated Mr B fairly when 
valuing his car. I dont think they have, and Ill explain why.
Mr B says he carried out his own research and his car is worth around £9,000. Its standard 
practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a 
car. And its not unreasonable that it does so, as the valuation the guides give are based on 
national research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale 
at the time of loss. We find theyre more reliable than individual adverts, which can vary 
vastly and can be misleading, as often cars arent sold at the advertised price once 
negotiations take place.
Advantage provided evidence of their valuation searches, which show the details of Mr Bs 
car and states the diesel engine as one of its features. So, Im satisfied its been taken into 
account in their valuation. Occasionally, a vehicle may have features added to it which 
increase its worth, but often we find these optional extras dont add as much value as one 
might think, and can also reduce in value over time. Advantage said the only additional 
features that added to the value of Mr Bs car were the leather seats and parking distance 
controls. Our investigator looked at the guides Advantage relied on and they also found 
these were the only features that added to the value of the car. So, Im satisfied Advantage 
did consider the additional features in Mr Bs car. 
Advantage based their valuation on figures from two guides, CAP and Glass, and said they 
valued Mr Bs car at £7,548 and £8,250, respectively. The guides provide figures to reflect 
what price a vehicle might be sold for in different markets, and generally we would rely on 
figures for cars sold by car dealership companies in the retail market. Specifically, when 
using CAP, our approach is to rely on the market figure it produces. Ive looked at the 
searches Advantage carried out, and I find it showed CAP provided a market value greater 
than the figure Advantage has relied on in their calculations, so Im not satisfied they 
calculated the value of Mr Bs car fairly. 
 
Our investigator therefore carried out their own search and looked at the same valuation 
guides as Advantage did, and these produced values of £7,920 and £8,250. They also 
looked at a third guide which valued the car at £8,509. We usually find a fair valuation would 
fall somewhere between the range of figures suggested by the guides. Advantages 
valuation of £7,899, falls below the range of prices Ive seen.   
Putting things right
Considering all this, I think a fair way to resolve this complaint is to take an average of the 
three guides. As such, I require Advantage to increase their valuation to £8,226. They should 
pay Mr B the difference between what they already paid and this figure. They should also 
pay 8% simple interest per year from the date they initially paid Mr B to the date they pay 
him the increase. While this isnt the amount Mr B had hoped for, I think this value is fair.  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint and require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to increase their valuation to £8,226 and pay Mr B the difference between 
this figure and what they already paid him, so they should pay £327 to Mr B directly. They 
should also pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date they initially paid Mr B, to the date they pay him the increase.
If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off.
It should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman