DRN-3376039
The complaint
Mr U complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway reported adverse 
information on his credit reference files following him voluntarily terminating (VT) his hire 
purchase agreement which had funded the acquisition of a car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In late 2020 Mr U contacted Secure Trust to let it know he was encountering some financial 
difficulties due to Covid. It placed his next monthly payment on hold. He then made contact 
and said he was considering VT but was also looking at part exchanging the car for a less 
expensive model. However, on 27 October he told the business that he wished to VT the 
agreement and he then cancelled this request as he realised he still owed more than 50% of 
the sum borrowed. 
He was given a payment holiday and I have noted he had some issues about how that was 
reported on his credit file, but those are not the subject of this complaint. He then told Secure 
Trust on 30 April 2021 that he wished to VT the agreement. Having reviewed the business 
notes I have not seen that Mr U raised the issue of VT or discussed it with Secure Trust 
before acting. 
Secure Trust issued the appropriate VT paperwork and notified him he had to pay off arrears 
of £3,085.04. I have not seen any evidence that Mr U had agreed that the payment 
arrangement he entered into to pay off those arrears would not be reported on his credit file. 
I appreciate he says that he was unaware of this risk and he had always sought to avoid a 
negative impact on his credit file. But I am not aware that he discussed the matter with 
Secure Trust before seeking to VT the Agreement. The only record of a conversation was 
back in October 2020 and while Secure Trust no longer hold a recording of this call the notes 
do not indicate any detailed discussion about VT.
It appears that after the agreement was VTd Mr U spoke with a call handler who gave some 
confusing advice about the reporting of arrears, but as our investigator has explained this 
took place after Mr U had VTd the agreement so I do not consider it had any impact on his 
decision. I also note that Mr U was struggling financially and it is hard to see how he could 
have avoided a VT.
I note that the business did offer to remove any adverse information if Mr U cleared his 
outstanding balance and this was reasonable. The reality is that once the agreement was 
VTd Mr U had a debt of over £3,000 and as such while this is uncleared his account is in 
arrears and reporting that is an accurate reflection of that situation. As such I cannot say that 
Secure Trust has done anything wrong.
I appreciate Mr U will be disappointed in my decision but I am unable to uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman