DRN-3130525
The complaint
Mr M complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) unfairly charged
him for excess mileage after he took the decision to voluntary terminate a hire purchase 
agreement (in respect of a car) in his name. 
What happened
In November 2016, Mr M acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from 
BMWFS. The total repayable under the agreement was £50,830.42. Mr M was required to 
make 47 monthly payments of £650 and there was a final optional payment of £20,280.42 if 
he wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement.
The agreement set out that Mr M had the right to terminate the agreement at any time
before the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the
car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this
was £25,415.21
In March 2020 Mr M enquired about terminating the agreement early. In response BMWFS 
wrote to Mr M to say that if he wanted to go ahead he would be required to pay £65.21 
(£25,415.21 [half of the total repayable under the agreement] less £25,350 actually paid 
[39 monthly payments of £650]). 
Mr M decided he wanted to go ahead with terminating the agreement early and on 
23 March 2020 he paid BMWFS £65.21.
The car was collected by BMWFS on 19 June 2020. The inspection report undertaken on 
collection of the car identified £118 worth of damage. However, on 25 June 2020, BMWFS 
took the decision not to seek recovery of this sum from Mr M. 
On 9 July 2020, after the car had been collected, BMWFS charged Mr M £2,054.23 for 
excess mileage. This had been calculated as follows:
contract months completed 41
pro rata mileage 27,333 (41/48 x 32,000)
recorded mileage 43,508
excess mileage 16,175
charge £2,054.23 (16,175 x 12.7 pence)
Mr M didnt pay this sum.
The agreement set out that Mr M had an annual mileage allowance of 8,000 and a total
mileage allowance of 32,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS could
charge him 12.7 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the
event he terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the
time the car was on hire.
Mr M didnt think this charge was enforceable so referred the matter to our service for
investigation.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
shouldnt be upheld. She was satisfied that BMWFS had calculated the excess mileage
charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire purchase agreement and the Consumer
Credit Act 1974 (CCA). She also found that the terms of the agreement were clear around
the possibility of an excess mileage charge being payable on voluntary termination.
In summary, she said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination.
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable
under the hire purchase agreement. It doesnt include charges for items that are
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent
to be affected by the termination.
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Ms agreement was clear that the
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination.
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in
the total price of the agreement.
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the
total price of the agreement. Mr Ms accrued liability under S100 therefore included
paying an additional amount of £2,054.23.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage
would be charged, when it would accrue and how much it would cost.
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded.
The investigator concluded that when considering all the terms of the agreement as a
whole, she was satisfied it was made clear and not misleading about when an excess
mileage charge could be applied and for how much. She was therefore satisfied it 
was fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge the additional amount.
Mr M disagreed, but the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind. Therefore, the
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement
allowed Mr M use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of
£20,280.42. While Mr M was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain
conditions, such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum
mileage each year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set
out what would happen should Mr M not meet those requirements.
Mr M exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary
termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay anything more.
But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement,
whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess
mileage or other charges are due.
In this case Mr M accepts that he was required to pay at least £25,415.21 to voluntary
terminate the agreement. But he disputes the excess mileage charge of £2,054.23 that has
been added on top of this figure.
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of
Mr Ms hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and in
his case, that was £25,415.21. Various sections of the agreement Mr M had with BMWFS
also referred to the liability on early termination, including where excess mileage, damage
charges or other charges may increase the final liability.
Mr M has made reference to a case on our website, the position he says the courts have 
taken in cases similar to his and specific reference to the case of Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited v Estrella Cahalane in support of his view that lenders arent legally 
entitled to charge for exceeding a mileage allowance.
Ive read a transcript in respect of the Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited v 
Estrella Cahalane case, but Im not persuaded it helps Mr M.
This is because whether or not its fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to
every case, as it will depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In
other words, what Ive to decide is has the agreement Mr M entered into, rather than what
another party might have entered into with another business, been constructed in a way as
to allow the charging for excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA
regarding voluntary termination? In Mr Ms specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why.
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to
termination arent affected by the termination. What this means is that Mr M is liable to pay
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Ms hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess Mileage
Charges. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will apply if that
mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance
will be reduced to reflect the shorter period of hire and that your obligation to pay any
excess mileage charge will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied Mr Ms
agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue.The agreement also has a section headed Termination: your rights. This section contains
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary
sets out that so long as Mr M has paid at least half the total amount payable under the
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts with
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for exceeding
the mileage might apply.
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been
constructed has prejudiced Mr M.
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mr M is liable to pay the
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under
S99 of the CCA.
Mr M says that BMWFS is unfairly reporting arrears on his credit file in relation to his
agreement.  And having looked at a copy of Mr Ms credit file dated September 2021 I can 
see that BMWFS has been reporting the agreement as being in arrears of £2,054 since 
about September 2020.
However, as Mr M hasnt paid all the sums which fell due when he terminated the agreement 
early, I cant reasonably say that what BMWFS is reporting is either inaccurate, unfair or 
unreasonable.
For the sake of completeness, I would also make the following comments and observations.
The fact that Mr M might not have been charged excess mileage in the past on voluntary 
terminating an agreement, if indeed he has voluntary terminated an agreement in the past, 
doesnt mean that BMWFS wasnt able to charge him for excess mileage in this case. 
The recorded annual mileage on the agreement of 8,000 matches the annual mileage 
declared by Mr M to his insurer, at least for the insurance period August 2019 to 
August 2020.
I accept the car wasnt collected from Mr M until June 2020, rather than March 2021. But 
given that Mr M wasnt obliged to make any further monthly payments to BMWFS after 
March 2021 in my view it follows that Mr M shouldnt have the benefit of an extra three 
months of mileage allowance. 
Mr M says BMWFS adopted bully boy tactics when he was trying to arrange collection of 
the car. Ive considered everything the parties have said and submitted on this point. And 
having done so, Im not persuaded that BMWFS acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr M in this respect. It should also be remembered that the period between March 2021 and 
June 2021 represented an unprecedented time for both businesses and consumers.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman