DRN-2159498
The complaint
The executors of Mrs As estate complain about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline 
a subsidence claim made under a buildings insurance policy. The executors are represented 
in this complaint by Mrs H.
What happened
The late Mrs A made a claim to AXA in 2018 after noticing crack damage to her 
conservatory. AXAs loss adjuster thought the damage had been caused by subsidence, but 
concluded that the foundation of the conservatory wasnt as deep as it ought to have been. 
AXA said the subsidence damage was therefore the result of defective design, and so the 
claim was excluded under the policy terms. 
After Mrs A sadly passed away, the executors of her estate brought a complaint to this 
service. They disagreed with AXAs conclusion that there had been defective design.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had been 
reasonable for AXA to conclude the foundations of the conservatory werent deep enough, 
and that this had resulted in the subsidence.   
Mrs H, on behalf of the executors of Mrs As estate, didnt accept our investigators 
conclusions. The matter has therefore been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers subsidence, but excludes defective design. In relying on the exclusion, 
the onus is on AXA to show that it applies. 
AXAs loss adjuster carried out an inspection. They noted there were clay soils at the 
property, as well as several trees and shrubs nearby. They thought some of the roots may 
extend beneath the house foundations, and pointed out that tree roots can be troublesome in 
clay soils because they can induce volumetric changes. The loss adjuster thought there had 
been moderate damage to the conservatory, and said that the pattern and nature of the 
damage was indicative of subsidence. They thought it was possible that the foundations to 
the conservatory werent of sufficient depth to cope with the site conditions, and so decided 
to arrange further investigations. 
Site investigations then took place. The property was found to have silty clay soil. The 
conservatory foundations were at a depth of 370mm, and tree roots were found at that 
depth, but not further below this. The foundations for the main house were at a depth of 
850mm.
The conservatory was built around 1992. Ive read the building regulations in force at the 
time and the relevant code of practice for foundations, and this says that foundations for 
traditional brick and masonry buildings in clay soils should be at a minimum depth of 
900mm.
I accept that conservatories were exempt from building regulations, and I also accept that 
the depth of 900mm referred to traditional brick and masonry buildings which a conservatory 
is not. However, I think this can be considered a reasonable guideline for what might have 
been expected to be good practice. Theres a significant difference between the 
recommended foundation depth of 900mm, and the depth of the conservatory foundations 
here at 370mm. It was for this reason that AXAs loss adjuster thought the conservatory 
foundations were inadequate for the site conditions. 
I think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on its loss adjusters opinion here. Although Mrs H 
says that the conservatory foundations were appropriate for the time of construction, she 
hasnt provided any expert opinion to support this. 
Mrs H has referred me to a document that she says supports that conservatory foundations 
at 300mm are acceptable. The document is a guide to good practice for the specification and 
installation of conservatories within the UK. The guide is dated 2016, which is over 20 years 
after the conservatory was built. Nonetheless, Ive looked carefully at this document and I 
see that the reference to 300mm refers to the width of the foundations, rather than the depth. 
The document says the minimum depth of foundations should not be less than 600mm, and 
in clay, the depth should not be less than 1.0 metre. This supports the loss adjusters view 
that the conservatorys foundation depth of 370mm wasnt sufficient, particularly given the 
presence of clay soils. 
Mrs H says the conservatory was built many years ago, and if the foundations were too 
shallow, then damage would have happened previously. However, I note the loss adjuster 
has said that mortar at the junction of the conservatory and main house has been re-pointed 
previously, which they thought was indicative of previous movement at that location. This is 
the area where further movement has taken place. 
I understand Mrs H thinks the previous repair was to cover up a shrinkage hairline crack. Ive 
looked at a photo of the repair, and it does look as though the re-pointing took place over a 
fairly large area, which would seem excessive for a hairline crack. It therefore doesnt seem 
unreasonable that the loss adjuster concluded there had been previous movement in that 
area. 
Conclusions
Given that there were clay subsoils and that tree roots were found at the same depth as the 
conservatorys foundation, I think it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that the nearby 
vegetation was responsible for the subsidence damage. 
The conservatorys foundations werent of a sufficient depth in accordance with good 
building practice at the time, and tree roots werent found below 370mm. Therefore, if the 
conservatorys foundations had been at the recommended depth, or even had the same 
depth as the main house, its unlikely they would have been affected by the nearby 
vegetation. This is supported by the fact that the main house doesnt have any subsidence 
damage. Although the conservatory has stood since 1992, theres evidence of a previous repair in the 
same area where further movement has taken place, which suggests there has been 
movement there previously.  
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that 
the conservatory foundations were defective, and that it was for this reason that the 
subsidence damage happened - and therefore turn down the claim.
The executors have also complained about the time taken for a claims decision to be made. 
As the investigator has pointed out, AXA was waiting for a report after the site investigations 
had taken place before it made its claims decision. I dont think it caused any unnecessary 
delays in its handling of the matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs A 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman