DRN-4047332
The complaint
Ms C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax irresponsibly gave her a credit 
card she couldnt afford. 
What happened
In December 2019, Ms C applied for a credit card with Halifax. She was given an initial credit 
limit of £5,000. The limit was never increased.
Ms C reached out for support from a debt charity as she was struggling financially and the 
debt charity informed Halifax. Halifax says that when it was notified by the charity it arranged 
to close her account in January 2022 to prevent further spending and allow her to repay the 
outstanding balance. 
Ms C complained to Halifax in October 2022 to say that the credit card should never have 
been given to her as it was unaffordable from the outset. Halifax didnt uphold her complaint 
and said it was satisfied it had carried out adequate checks during the application which 
didnt reveal any affordability concerns. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that he didnt think 
Halifaxs affordability checks had gone far enough. He thought Halifax ought to have tried to 
find out more about Ms Cs committed expenditure. However, from the information Ms C had 
supplied, he didnt think further checks would have revealed any affordability concerns. He 
therefore didnt think Halifax had made an unfair lending decision. 
Ms C disagreed. In summary, she said that her committed expenditure was much higher 
than our adjudicator had calculated and that given her medical conditions (which were 
undiagnosed at the time of application) Halifax ought not to have lent to her. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to granting Ms C with credit, Halifax needed to ensure it was satisfied she could 
sustainably afford the borrowing. There isnt a set list of checks they were required to 
complete. Instead, the rules in place at the time set out that any checks completed needed 
to be proportionate to the circumstances. What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-
all approach to what checks should be completed. To decide what would be proportionate in 
the case of a credit card, Halifax needed to take into consideration things such as (but not 
limited to): the size of the credit limit, the cost of credit, what reasonable regular repayments 
would likely be if the full credit was utilised as soon as possible and Ms Cs circumstances. 
As part of the application, Halifax says Ms C declared an annual income of around £39,000. 
She said she had three dependents, a monthly mortgage/rental commitment of £600 and 
had £150 of other monthly commitments. She also stated she held no other credit cards. 
Halifax says it completed a credit check in addition to the information Ms C provided and 
found no repayment issues or signs of financial difficulty. It therefore concluded the new 
credit limit of £5,000 would be affordable. 
Halifax hasnt provided us with the copy of its credit check. However, Ive seen a copy of 
Ms Cs credit report that she has provided. In the absence of the checks Halifax completed, 
Im satisfied these provide a good indication of what Halifax likely saw. 
It seems Ms C held three other credit cards at the time with combined credit limits of around 
£12,000 and it seems she had used up almost all of that available credit. She also had two 
loans for a total of around £5,000. On the application she had declared she had no credit 
card debt and Halifax ought to have been able to see from its credit checks that wasnt the 
case. I think this ought to have caused it to question the expenditure information Ms C had 
declared on the application form. I therefore dont think Halifax completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks before lending. I think it ought to have gained a better 
understanding of her outgoings before proceeding with the application. 
I cant be certain what Ms C would have declared if shed been asked more information 
about her committed expenditure at the time. However, Ive reviewed the copies of her bank 
statements shes supplied, and I think these give a fair indication of what would likely have 
been disclosed if Ms C had been asked. 
These show that her income was made up of salary, some benefits and a regular weekly 
payment from a third party. The total monthly income was several hundred pounds lower 
than she had declared. However, the statements also indicate her outgoings were not as 
high as she has told us (but more than she declared on her application). It seems likely Ms C 
held other accounts and/or that some income and expenditure was shared with her partner 
as I can see regular transactions between them on her statements and expenditure such as 
her joint mortgage isnt visible on the statements shes provided. But as this is what shes 
provided to our service when trying to demonstrate the credit card was unaffordable, I find it 
unlikely she would have given Halifax more information if asked. 
Although Ms C says she was living in her overdraft, the bank statements shes provided 
show that the account regularly went into a positive balance and she was able to meet her 
existing commitments without obvious signs of difficulty. While she did utilise her overdraft, 
that in itself doesnt mean Halifax shouldnt have lent to her, especially as it did always go 
back into credit. So even if I thought Halifax ought to have reviewed her banks statements 
before lending, I dont think it would have seen anything in the statements shes provided 
that ought to have concerned it about the affordability of this new credit card. 
Ive also noted that when Ms C took out the Halifax credit card, she used almost the entire 
credit limit to transfer balances from two other credit cards (and reduce her debt on those). 
This is relevant because I think its likely this is what Ms C would have told Halifax she was 
using the card for if shed been asked more questions about her expenditure. Therefore, 
Halifax would have been entitled to assume that granting this credit facility wouldnt have 
increased her overall debt. 
While I accept its possible that Ms C couldnt afford this Halifax credit card at the time, Ive 
not seen any persuasive evidence to suggest that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would have likely revealed any concerns about affordability. For these reasons, I dont think 
Halifax made an unfair lending decision in giving Ms C the credit card. 
Ive seen that in the months following her taking out this credit card she took out further unsecured borrowing, and rather than closing the credit cards she had completed balance 
transfers on, she continued spending on them. However, as it appears she was managing 
her debt repayments until the debt charity intervened, I dont think Halifax ought to have 
necessarily realised anything was wrong and proactively done anything until the point it was 
notified. The steps it took to prevent further spending on the account in 2022 were 
reasonable.
Lastly, Ms C has told us about her medical conditions and I understand why she says this 
ought to have made Halifax reconsider lending to her. However, as these conditions werent 
disclosed to Halifax and they would have had no reasonable way of knowing about them 
(Ms C accepts she wasnt diagnosed at the time), I cant fairly say they acted unreasonably 
in lending to her.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman