DRN-3720768
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mrs S bought solar panels for her home in 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the supplier 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the supplier misleading Mrs S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mrs Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. she thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs S because they werent generating as much 
electricity as was promised. 
Shawbrook didnt respond by the deadline. So, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs S could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs S says that during a sales meeting she was told that feed in tariff (FIT) would generate 
more than enough income to pay the cost of the purchasing the system.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Bespoke Quote. Ive 
considered these, along with Mrs Ss testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative 
of P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mrs Ss 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the cash price, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. 
On balance Im satisfied that Mrs S was told that the cost of the £7,926.45. The quote sets 
this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash 
price of the system was £7,926.45. The monthly payment was £81.73. The total amount of 
credit is £7,826.45 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £14,811.40.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mrs Ss recollections, Im satisfied that she 
was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that it was made clear in the documents that 
although the cost of the system was £7,926.45, it would cost Mrs S more than this as she 
had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan. 
Mrs S has said that she was told the system would generate more than enough income to 
pay the cost of the purchasing the system. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P 
as well as the Mrs Ss recollections of her meeting with Ps representative to decide what is 
most likely to have been said. 
Theres a section headed Finance repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months because 
this is the length of the loan that Mrs S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £83.63. For each year of the 15-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £83.63, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. I think the quote clearly sets out the income and savings Mrs S could expect to receive from 
the system, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and additional savings, would not be sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments until at least year 14.
Ive carefully thought about Mrs Ss version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that she were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered from the start.
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs S that the benefits of the system would cover the overall 
costs of the loan. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is 
most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs S were told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 18 the overall benefits that Mrs S could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs S that the system would pay for itself by 
year 18, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the 
contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Mrs S was told that the system would generate 2,265 kWh of electricity per year. And the 
benefits shown in the quote were calculated based on that level of generation. The system 
has consistently generated significantly less than Mrs S was told it would, which means she 
has not received the benefits set out in the quote. 
Based on FIT statements showing meter readings in December 2018, 2020, and 2021 (as 
close to the anniversary of installation as is available) the system has on average generated 
more than 10% less electricity than expected. I think this is beyond a reasonable margin of 
error relative to the figure of 2,265 kWh given to Mrs S at the time of sale. 
Shawbrook has failed to address this issue in response to the investigators assessment, 
despite the system having been inspected. As far as I can tell there was no reason given for 
why the system was underperforming (such as shading issues. That suggests that there is 
no fault that could be fixed to prevent future under-generation relative to what Mrs S was 
promised at the time of sale. 
So, based on the evidence available to me, I think that P misrepresented the systems ability 
to generate electricity, and as a result the benefits it would produce relative to the cost of the 
loan. I think this misrepresentation induced Mrs S into entering into the contract. So, I think 
that Shawbrook didnt treat Mrs S fairly and she has lost out because of this. And this means 
that Shawbrook should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ss complaint for Shawbrook to.
a) Calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income 
(through FIT and savings) for Mrs S and what the sales paperwork set out as being 
the annual total income savings.
b) Add 8% simple interest per year for the time Mrs S has been without that money, and 
pay the total to Mrs S.
If the loan agreement is ongoing, then to ensure that Mrs S doesnt lose out going forward, 
Shawbrook should:
c) Calculate the average annual underperformance percentage so far, and assume that 
the panels will continue to underperform at that rate through to the conclusion of the 
finance agreement
d) recalculate the total income savings for each year going forward (using reasonable 
assumptions about unit rates for FIT payments and electricity) until the conclusion of 
the finance agreement, having applied the percentage reduction identified in c) 
above.
e) Pay Mrs S the difference between the revised amounts calculated in d) above and 
the total income savings set out in the sales paperwork.
Shawbrook should also pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman