DRN-3999844
The complaint
Mr N complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost when he fell victim to a bank 
impersonation scam.
What happened
Mr N fell victim to a bank impersonation scam in March 2022. He received a call from 
someone purporting to be from bank B, who he also has an account with. The caller 
advised Mr N that his accounts were at risk as he had recently fallen victim to a missed 
delivery text scam after clicking on the link and providing details. He was told he needed to 
move his money to keep it safe. 
I understand that payments were made from his account with Revolut as well as other firms 
as part of the impersonation scam. This decision solely relates to the two payments  
£24,378 followed by £24,000  that Mr N was tricked into making from his Revolut account 
to two different safe accounts, which he thought had been opened in his name. 
After being notified of the scam, Revolut managed to recover £2.26 and £1 from the 
beneficiary accounts. It refused to refund the remaining funds as it said Mr N had authorised 
the payments and ignored its warnings.
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint in full and recommended Revolut to refund 
Mr Ns loss along with interest. It disagreed and provided additional information about the 
warnings it provided at the time of the payments. As a gesture of goodwill, Revolut offered to 
refund 50% of the second payment. 
The investigator reconsidered the complaint in light of that response. They no longer thought 
that Revolut ought to have manually intervened during the first payment, but still felt that an 
intervention of that nature was warranted when Mr N authorised the second payment as it 
was in quick succession. The investigator remained satisfied that the scam would have been 
uncovered had probing questions been asked of Mr N during such an intervention. But they 
now thought that Mr N should share responsibility for his loss, and so recommended a 50% 
deduction from the refund. In other words, the investigator concluded that the offer Revolut 
had put forward was overall both fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to make a 
decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reassuring Mr N and Revolut that although Ive only summarised the 
background above, so not everything that happened is detailed, Ive read and considered 
their submissions in its entirety. 
Mr N has forwarded correspondence between him and the police to demonstrate he has 
been a victim of fraud. I want to reassure him that its not in question he was the victim of a 
cruel scam. And its very unfortunate that hes lost a significant amount of money as a result. 
But Revolut doesnt automatically become liable to reimburse his loss. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even where they are duped 
into making that payment. Here, its not in dispute that Mr N authorised the transactions.
There are some situations in which a payment service provider should reasonably have 
taken a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular payment. If it fails to act on 
information which ought reasonably to alert it to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. So, Ive gone on to consider whether 
this is one of those situations.
Revolut is an electronic money institution and the permissions granted to it by the Financial 
Conduct Authority, the UKs financial services regulator, are different to those of a bank or a 
building society. Electronic money institutions and authorised payment institutions operate 
differently and in a different regulatory framework. In broad terms, the well-established codes 
of practice for fraud prevention dont apply in the same way to these institutions as they do to 
banks and other payment service providers. Ive thought about Revoluts obligations in this 
case against that background.
The technical evidence provided by Revolut shows that warnings were displayed at different 
stages of each disputed transaction that Mr N authorised. 
First, there was a Confirmation of Payee (CoP) check which came back with a no match 
response for each payment. In other words, the receiving payment service provider informed 
Revolut that the name Mr N had entered for the beneficiary account holder didnt match with 
the true name of the receiving account. In this instance, both beneficiary accounts were also 
held with Revolut. On the face of it, it doesnt seem totally illogical to conclude that Revolut 
would know the true account name seeing as it was also the firm responding to the CoP 
check. But its not as straightforward as that. 
During a CoP check, the receiving payment service provider doesnt usually give any 
additional information about the true name of the receiving account. To my knowledge, 
currently theres no requirement to do so either. And thats the case even where the sending 
and receiving accounts are held by the same payment service provider. As can be seen from 
the screenshots Mr N has shared with our service for a test transaction he carried out with 
bank B, a separate payment service provider, the CoP no match response didnt include 
additional information even though the receiving account was also with B.
In this case, we know Revoluts system picked up the true account names at some point as 
they subsequently appeared on Mr Ns statement. But a screenshot of the transactions that 
he took on the day of the incident shows the receiving account name as the one entered by 
him when setting up the payment, i.e., his own name. Given this, I think its unlikely the 
reconciliation of account names happened during the CoP process.
Apart from the CoP-related warning, I can see that Revolut also provided a general warning 
about sending payments to a new beneficiary. On its own, I dont think that warning was 
particularly impactful. But on this occasion, there was a further warning given when Revolut 
paused the payments pending further enquiry. It sent an email to Mr N both times informing 
him that his payment had been frozen due to being considered risky. Mr N is correct in that 
the email showed the beneficiarys name as that entered by him, not the true account name. 
But as Ive mentioned, Revolut wasnt necessarily expected to have known that information 
and to have presented it to Mr N at that specific moment in time. Revolut states that when it froze Mr Ns payments (referenced above), it asked him for some 
additional information. Namely, the purpose for the payment. It submits that this additional 
step gave him another opportunity to review the transaction before proceeding, and for it to 
provide a more specific warning. The technical information Ive seen shows that Mr N chose 
payment for goods and services on both occasions as the payment purpose. Revolut then 
provided a further warning to Mr N that was more specific based on his response. On each 
occasion Mr N confirmed he was happy to go ahead, and the payment was released.
Revolut says that Mr N was presented with a transfer to a safe account reason as one of 
the options. It argues that had he selected that reason, it would have provided a tailored 
warning accordingly. Mr N says he doesnt deny selecting goods and services and argues 
that safe account wasnt listed as one of the options. He questions the sample screenshot 
Revolut has shared with our service and believes that its not reflective of what he saw at the 
time. To support this, Mr N has also shared screenshots of the steps (including warnings) he 
took when he recently attempted a test transaction for £1.
I acknowledge Mr Ns concerns, but Im more persuaded that he was presented with the 
options Revolut says he was shown. This is because it has told us that the specific payment 
purpose intervention would have triggered in such situations for customers who were using 
a particular version of the Revolut app, which it says Mr N had been using. I accept that the 
payment journey of his recent test transaction doesnt include intervention. But that could be 
because the test transaction didnt carry the same level of risk as the disputed transactions. 
One possible reason could be because the amounts involved are significantly different. 
I would just add that the value of a payment is just one of many possible risk factors.    
Ive carefully considered the different warnings Revolut provided Mr N during the payment 
journey for each disputed transaction. Ive also reviewed previous account activity. Although 
a payment for £24,378 was substantially higher than the usual account activity, keeping in 
mind Revoluts obligations as an electronic money institution, I find that such an intervention 
was proportionate to the risk involved. But I cant fairly say the same for the next payment of 
£24,000 which was authorised less than ten minutes later. I find that the same level of 
intervention wasnt sufficient at that time, and a manual intervention was warranted for 
further questioning  even if Mr N was genuinely paying for goods and services. 
I understand Revolut doesnt offer phone services to its customers, and instead 
communicates through its in-app chat. So, I think Revolut could have still contacted Mr N 
and probed him further following the second payment being authorised. Had it done so, Im 
persuaded that he would have answered Revoluts questions honestly. After all, theres no 
indication that hed been coached by the scammer to lie. I recognise Revoluts concerns 
about Mr N selecting the wrong reason for the payment. But Im not convinced that this was 
intentional. I do think its more likely than not that further questioning would have uncovered 
the scam, thereby preventing further loss. So, I find that Revolut can be held liable for Mr Ns 
loss resulting from the second payment.
Ive also carefully thought about whether Mr N is partly to blame for what happened. And I 
think that he is. Mr N doesnt appear to have questioned why he needed to move his money 
to two separate accounts to keep it safe. He was also aware that the CoP check came back 
with a no match response. I understand he questioned the scammer about this, who said it 
was because the account had been recently set up. While I appreciate Mr N was persuaded 
by the scammers explanation, it remains the case he had been warned that the name hed 
entered did not match the true name on the account. There were subsequent warnings that 
he was potentially being scammed. Revolut was concerned enough that it even paused the 
payment. Despite the sense of panic that the scammer might have created, I think there 
were several flags in this particular case. Im also mindful that had Mr N selected the most 
appropriate payment reason, it would have immediately put Revolut on notice that he had fallen victim to an impersonation scam. Under the circumstances, I find that a 50% deduction 
for contributory negligence seems fair.
Ive also considered whether Revolut took reasonable steps to try and recover Mr Ns money 
once it became aware that hed been scammed. I acknowledge his frustrations about the 
response time and having to deal with different agents when he reported the scam. 
Unfortunately, the funds had already been removed from the beneficiary accounts by the 
time Mr N initiated the in-app chat with Revolut. Theres not much more it could have done, 
even if it had been quicker in responding to Mr Ns messages.
Putting things right
Revolut Ltd needs to refund 50% of the second disputed transaction. To this amount, it 
needs to add simple interest at 8% per year. The interest is to be calculated from the date of 
transaction to the date of settlement.  
If Revolut considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give Mr N a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require 
Revolut Ltd to put matters right for Mr N as set out above within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it that Mr N accepts my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman