DRN-3555596
The complaint
Mr A complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) were wrong to report a default 
to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his van under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I understand that Mr A is upset a default was applied to his account after two years and that 
he thinks this has impacted on his ability to obtain a mortgage.
I understand that Mr A says he didnt receive a default notice but irrespective of whether or 
not a default notice was sent, I need to think about whether he ought reasonably to have 
known his account was in default. And I think he should. The letters sent to Mr A in March 
2020 confirmed the debt and the reduced debt. Whilst its clear Mr A disputed the 
outstanding debt I think those letters clarified it and I can see from MotoNovos call notes 
that the debt was confirmed to Mr A in May 2020. At that point the business agreed to delay 
referring the debt to collectors as Mr As work had been impacted by the pandemic, but they 
didnt agree to wipe the debt. MotoNovo also sent Mr A an account summary in December 
2020 and in 2021 and that summary also detailed the debt.
So, I think it ought to have been clear to Mr A that a debt remained, and I think he had 
adequate opportunity to pay it but didnt.
In those circumstances, I dont think MotoNovo were unfair to report a default to his credit 
file. 
They initially reported the default on the wrong date but put that right and reported the 
default from March 2020. I dont think Mr A was disadvantaged by that as I think the default 
needed to be moved and the movement will be of benefit to Mr A as it will be on his file for 
less time. I can see the argument for reporting the default a month later, but Mr A has also 
benefitted from that as it will stay on his file for less time. 
Overall, Im not persuaded MotoNovo need to take any action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman