DRN-3479715
The complaint
Mrs H complained poor workmanship by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) 
caused a leak at her property when it attended to a home emergency under her HomeCare 
insurance policy. Mrs H had representation during the claim, but for ease and simplicity I will 
only refer to Mrs H.
What happened
Mrs H made a claim under her policy to repair a damaged pipe that was external to her 
property. The external pipework had become detached at one of the joints where it exited 
her bathroom. British Gas appointed a contractor to carry out the repair, but shortly 
afterwards the problem re-occurred, so British Gas appointed a second contractor to fix the 
issue.
Just under three months later, Mrs H experienced a leak to the downstairs of her property 
when she emptied her bath. British Gas attended and identified the cause as a fitting being 
installed incorrectly underneath the bath. Mrs H said she thought the issue was caused 
when British Gas worked on the external pipe. However, British Gas said this wasnt 
possible, as it had only worked on the external pipe and hadnt removed the bath panel that 
provided access to the internal pipe. 
Mrs H said the pipe under the bath had been in situ for over 20 years, so it was too much of 
a coincidence that she had an issue with it after British Gas had been working on the 
external pipe which was connected to the pipe that run under the bath. So, she thinks British 
Gas should make good her property for the leak. However, British Gas doesnt think its 
liable as it said it didnt cause the issue with the internal pipe. British Gas did pay £50 
compensation for delays with the claim.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She didnt see anything that she 
thought suggested the leak was a result of anything British Gas contractor had done. She 
thought £50 compensation was fair for the delays caused. Mrs H disagreed, so the complaint 
has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In claims where the insurer has appointed contractors to carry out repairs, I would expect the 
insurer to take responsibility for the workmanship of what was carried out. So, as this 
complaint is about the workmanship of contractors appointed by British Gas, Ive considered 
whether I think the work carried out has been to a reasonable standard. I have reviewed the 
testimonies provided by both parties.
Mrs H has suggested its irrelevant whether British Gas removed the bath panel. She said 
taking the bath panel off has nothing to do with the leak, she said blaming a fitting that was 
fitted when the house was built over 20 years ago is not fair  the bathroom hasn't been 
altered since the house was built. Mrs H has said it cant be a coincidence that soon after a 
workman works on the pipes that are attached to this fitting  it leaks - seems far-fetched at 
least?.
Mrs H didnt trust the work carried out by British Gas contractors  especially the first 
contractor. She said the first contractor who attended didnt apply silicone to the joint in the 
pipe  she said this was confirmed to her by the second contractor who attended site to fix 
the issue. She said, there was zero brackets fitted to the [external] pipe - after the second 
[contractor] visit there is now numerous brackets fitted.
British Gas said the incorrectly fitted waste elbow had not been worked on by us or fitted by 
us previously. The work the engineer carried outwas outside the building, there is no way 
this could have had any effect on the fitting underneath the bath as it was far down the line 
of the waste pipe, there was no way this could have had any impact as the pipe was sealed 
tightly as it went through the wall and there was no movement, if you look at the photos 
provided you will see there was no impact of the work outside to inside.
British Gas didnt work on the defective pipe fitting under the bath during its initial visit, but as 
Mrs H has pointed out its quite possible this couldve been impacted by the work that British 
Gas carried out externally to the pipework. So, I asked both parties for further evidence to 
support their stances.
British Gas said this wasnt possible and the photographs provided proof of this, along with 
the actual work logs from the visits and additional testimony.
The log sheets show that British Gas attended to the external pipe to the bathroom in early 
February and attended to fix the waste pipe under the bath (that caused the leak to the 
property) in late April. British Gas has explained that if pipes are fully supported they should 
never come free from a mechanical elbow. British Gas also said if work
was carried out on an external waste pipe no engineer would ever remove the bath panel to
ensure the pipework under it had been installed to a reasonable standard. It would be any
engineers expectation that internal pipework was installed to a satisfactory standard.
I have examined the log sheets provided from British Gas and they are consistent with the 
work it has described. I think it has also explained that the waste pipe shouldnt have come 
apart creating a leak if they had been properly fitted and supported.
No evidence has been provided to support Mrs Hs theory that the work on the external pipe 
caused the issue on the internal pipe. For me to uphold a complaint, I need to see evidence 
to support my decision. As I havent seen supporting evidence and as it was around three 
months between when the first work took place and when the leak happened, I think its 
unlikely that British Gas workmanship caused the issue. I think its likely their work was 
satisfactory. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman