DRN-2205636
The complaint
 Mrs J says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
 Mrs J took out a store card with PPI in 2003.
The policy covered Mrs J if she was too ill to work or had an accident or if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Js case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Js complaint because I dont think she wouldve bought the 
policy if she had been given clearer information about its cost and benefits.
AXA needed to make sure it gave Mrs J clear enough information about the policy so she
could decide for herself if she should take it out.
The PPI cost £1.50 per £100 of the outstanding balance  and Mrs J may have been told 
this. But I dont think its very likely that the policys true cost and benefits were explained 
clearly enough to allow Mrs J to work out whether PPI offered her any useful benefit it was 
worthwhile for her to buy. 
Mrs J told us she had other means she couldve relied on if she wasnt able to work. Mrs J 
told us that her employer wouldve paid her full sick pay for six months followed by half pay 
for the next six months.
Ive considered what AXA have said, that considering how long Mrs J had been in her 
position it was unlikely she would have received such generous sick pay. But I think it is 
entirely plausible that her employer wouldve paid the amount of sick pay Mrs J said, and for 
as long as Mrs J told us, if she was off work sick. 
I think the policy offered Mrs J limited value given the other means she couldve relied on.
On balance, based on all the information Ive seen, I dont think Mrs J wouldve bought the
policy if AXA had given her clear enough information about the cost and benefits to be able
to decide if it was good value for her.
So, I think Mrs J has lost out because of what AXA did wrong.
 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs J in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
How it does this will depend on whether Mrs Js store card account is still active or has been
closed. Ive noted that the PPI policy is already cancelled.
If Mrs Js account is still active:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs J would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs J owes and what she would
have owed.
If Mrs J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when AXA works out what Mrs J would have owed each month without PPI 
Mrs J paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest
on the extra Mrs J paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs J
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a
year.
C. AXA should tell Mrs J what its done to work out A and B.
If Mrs Js account has been closed:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs J would have owed when she closed her store card
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs J owed when she closed her
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs J would have owed
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs J would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs J
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the
extra Mrs J paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs J
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% ayear.
D. AXA should tell Mrs J what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs J that relates to this PPI
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give
Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA France IARD to put things right by doing what Ive 
said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman