DRN-4046767
The complaint
Miss S complains that Starling Bank Ltd (Starling) wont refund her the money she lost 
when she paid for a service she didnt receive. 
What happened
Miss S signed up to a webinar for a course provider who, for the purposes of this decision, 
Ill refer to as L. 
L was promoting a 10-week course that purported to teach its users how to sell products 
online and to provide on-going mentor support. L would also send weekly leads for 
products that would fulfil a certain profitability criteria and users would get access to weekly 
educational modules, group calls and online groups. The director of L said he would also 
look to provide on-going mentor support. L advertised its course with a 365-day 100% 
money back guarantee to those who signed up.
The total cost of the course was £1,997 and Miss S paid the total amount via bank transfer. 
Miss S says she became unhappy when she realised she wasnt getting some of the 
services she had paid for. Miss S said she had purchased 10 weeks worth of educational 
modules but only had access to / had been provided with weeks 1  4. She said the leads 
she was provided with either werent accessible or didnt provide the profit she had been told 
to expect. There were no weekly calls as suggested and Miss S struggled to get hold of Ls 
director or get him to respond to her queries. Miss S says that when she was able to get in 
touch with him, she was told the money back guarantee that she had been promised didnt 
apply to her circumstances and she was eventually blocked from the groups she had paid to 
have access to. 
Miss S then got in touch with a number of others who all felt that they had been scammed by 
L too. Miss S has provided this service with evidence that various other people in this group 
had faced the same issues as her.  
Having not received her money back directly from L as she had been promised, Miss S 
contacted Starling to let them know she had likely been the victim of a scam. Starling looked 
into Miss Ss complaint, but it declined to offer her a refund. It said it had looked into the 
issues faced by Miss S but felt that this was most likely a private civil dispute between Miss 
S and L and so it couldnt help her further. 
Miss S was unhappy with Starlings response. She said she knew of at least one other 
person in her group that had fallen victim to the same scam and had been able to get their 
money back. So, Miss S brought her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into things and agreed this was mostly likely a civil dispute 
with L. She said Miss S had been provided with some of the things she had paid for  
although the services shed received werent up to the standard Miss S had been led to 
believe they would be - but this amounted to a civil dispute rather than a scam.  Our 
investigator went on to say that she had not seen any evidence that L had intended to 
defraud Miss S at the time the payment now in question here was made. 
Miss S didnt agree with the investigator and asked for her case to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id firstly like to say how sorry I am to hear about whats happened to Miss 
S. I can fully understand why she wants to get her money back. But I can only look at 
whether Starling has treated Miss S fairly and reasonably in determining that her 
circumstances amount to a civil dispute with L. 
Starling is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code). Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse 
a customer who is the victim of an APP scam (excepted in limited circumstances). But the 
CRM code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
This code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a 
legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. 
So, the CRM code isnt a general protection for consumers against non-receipt of services. 
Instead it only applies in very specific circumstances  where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam. 
Its clear that Miss S did not receive a number of the things she paid for here. However, in 
order to be satisfied that Miss S has been the victim of a scam, Id have to be satisfied that 
the director of L had been intent on defrauding Miss S from the outset. And Im not 
persuaded I can say that is what most likely what happened here. Ill explain why.  
L hasnt stuck to its side of the bargain. Miss S hasnt been provided with the products she 
thought she would receive or any of the ongoing support she purchased. Its also clear that 
Miss S hasnt been able to use the 100% money back guarantee that was offered to her. But 
I dont think theres enough evidence to say that at the time Miss S made the payment to L, L 
intentionally accepted payments for a service or a course it had no intention of completing. It 
seems equally, if not more likely, that L has taken on more people than they can cope with 
leading to some of the services being purchased not being forthcoming or of poor quality or 
that the business is being handled poorly.  
Furthermore, I wouldnt expect a scammer to continue to engage with their victim once the 
payment had taken place and the funds received. There is no financial benefit in them 
continuing to do so. But in this case, there appears to have been sporadic communication 
with L after Miss S made the payment now in question here. And she was provided with 
some leads which she was able to use. Some services were provided when generally 
scammers tend to disappear once they have defrauded their victims and the scam is 
complete. It is not commonplace for any actual services, however poor quality, to be 
provided. Its often difficult to pinpoint when a business that has traded legitimately ceases to do so, 
but it seems more likely to me that things changed after Miss L made the payment now in 
question here and Im not persuaded that there was an intention on Ls behalf to defraud 
from the outset. Likewise, I havent seen any evidence that the police have concluded that 
the director of L acted fraudulently either. 
I also dont think the payment Miss S made was sufficiently out of character or unusual 
enough for Starling to have had any concerns about it before it was processed. So, I dont 
think Starling has done anything wrong here either. 
I do want to acknowledge what Miss S has said about other people complaining about being 
the victims of the same scam and I acknowledge that others may be facing the same 
problems with poor service and sub-par products that Miss S is facing. But this still doesnt 
persuade me that L set out with the intent to defraud Miss S. I also want to acknowledge 
what Miss S has said about other customers of L being able to get their money back via their 
bank. However, my role is to look at this case on its own individual merits and in the 
particular circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that the circumstances Miss S finds 
herself in most likely amount to a civil dispute between her and L as set in the definition of 
the CRM Code. For this reason, I dont think Starling needs to take any further action.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2023. 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman