DRN-2130231
The complaint
Mr W complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, applied a late
payment marker to his credit file after it failed to refund a delivery charge on a returned
purchase.
What happened
Mr W has had an account with Shop Direct since 2012. In April 2019 Mr W placed an order 
for a product with Shop Direct, which included a delivery charge of £3.99, on a Buy Now Pay 
Later arrangement (BNPL). Unfortunately, the wrong product was delivered. Mr W arranged 
for its return and Shop Direct refunded the cost of the product. Mr W said the delivery charge 
was not refunded.
Mr W complained to Shop Direct who eventually refunded the £3.99. But Mr W said that 
unbeknownst to him, as no payment had been made in time, interest was added to the 
delivery charge prior to its refund and the account went into arrears. So, Shop Direct put a 
late payment marker on Mr W's credit file. Mr W complained further to Shop Direct. In its 
final response Shop Direct said that the delivery charge should have been credited when it 
received the returned item, but that this wasn't actioned until 28 May, some weeks later. This 
resulted in arrears on the account. Shop Direct said it requested the credit file be amended 
and sent Mr W £25 for the distress caused. 
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He said the late payment 
marker and Shop Direct's delay in removing it had caused his hitherto perfect financial 
record and credit history to drop. He said this mistake had caused him distress and 
embarrassment and affected his financial standing and reputation.
The investigator acknowledged that Shop Direct had made an error in sending the incorrect 
product, but he concluded he wouldn't expect it to automatically refund the charge for 
postage. He said the late payment marker was applied correctly to the account because Mr 
W hadn't made a payment to cover the postage.
Mr W remained dissatisfied and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. I issued a 
provisional decision on 6 March 2019. I issued a second provisional decision on 6 August. I 
have summarised my conclusions below.
Provisional decision  6 March 2019
Mr W asked me to consider the Consumer Contracts Regulation 2013 (CCR) when making 
my assessment. He says it gives him rights when shopping online, including the right that 
the basic standard delivery charge must be refunded irrespective of whether goods are 
returned due to them being faulty or incorrectly supplied, within 14 days of receiving them 
back. At that stage I didnt believe I needed to consider this in order to come to what I 
thought was the right decision. 
In its evidence to this service Shop Direct said Mr W hadn't explained the reason for 
returning the product, which it said, was why the postage hadn't been refunded immediately. 
But despite this, in its final response letter to Mr W, it accepted that it should have refunded 
the money on receipt. It apologised for this error and amended Mr W's credit file to ensure 
no adverse information was recorded.
I noted that Mr W hadn't reported any direct financial disadvantage due to the error. He did 
say he needs an outstanding credit record to secure the best finance deal but he didnt 
provide any information about what deals he was trying to secure or if he had lost out 
because of Shop Direct's late payment marker. I didnt believe I had enough evidence to say 
he had lost out financially.
Mr W said he had worked hard to build and maintain his credit score over many years, yet it 
was destroyed in an instant over a matter of £3.99. I understood Mr W's frustration and 
strength of feeling in this matter but it wasnt possible for me to look at the effect this had on 
his credit score without further evidence. I noted that the late payment marker was on the 
report for a very limited time and was removed.
I concluded that under the circumstances presented to me it wasnt possible for me to 
definitively compensate for prospective loss. But I could see Mr W was very concerned when 
he discovered the erroneous late payment marker so I was minded to instruct Shop Direct to 
pay Mr W an additional £25 for his distress. Both Shop Direct and Mr W sent me some 
additional comments which I addressed in my second provisional decision.
Provisional decision  6 August 2019
Mr W and Shop Direct disagreed about whether Mr W stated the reason for returning the 
product so I thought it helpful to explain how the CCR was relevant.
Shop Direct did not agree that Mr W had advised it that the wrong product had been sent. It 
said Mr W failed to include with the returned product a statement that the wrong item had 
been sent. It went on to say it would reasonably assume that the product was a change of 
mind return under the 28 day approval guarantee and would therefore refund the cost of the 
goods but not refund the delivery charge. So Mr W only received a refund for the product 
because Shop Direct was unaware of the underlying reason for return.
Mr W has disputed that he hadnt explained the reason for returning the product. He said he 
explained fully over the phone the reason for returning the incorrect item on the day it was 
received. But he maintained this was not relevant because he is entitled to a refund within 14 
days no questions asked, under the CCR.
I noted that Mr Ws right to cancel the order under CCR is explained on Shop Directs Very 
website. So I was satisfied it was fully aware of this piece of legislation. I also noted that 
Shop Direct lays out its 28 Day Approval Guarantee through its Very website on the
same page as the right to cancel under CCR. 
I concluded that as Mr W had bought the item online the CCR gave him cancellation rights, 
provided he did so within 14 days of receiving the item. Although Shop Direct stipulates that 
Mr W should use the returns note or the website returns help pages Mr W said he explained 
on the telephone. I was satisfied that Shop Direct confirmed receipt of the returned item on 
16 April according to Mr Ws statement, which fell within the 14 days.
I was satisfied Mr W likely communicated his intention to return the product and did
so within 14 days, because Shop Direct actually processed the return within that time. 
Despite Shop Directs statement to this service to the contrary, as per CCR, Mr W was not 
obliged to give a reason for returning the product within the 14 days in order to receive a 
refund of the standard delivery charge.I did not see any evidence to support Shop Directs assertion that it can reasonably assume 
that the product was a change of mind return under the 28 day approval guarantee, rather 
than the 14 day right to cancel, and could therefore refund the cost of the goods but not 
refund the delivery charge.
Mr W maintained that his credit score remained affected by the late payment marker despite 
it having been removed but as I had explained in my first provisional decision there are many 
factors which make up a credit report and which go towards a credit score. Lenders dont 
base their decisions solely on the credit score but will each have their own criteria and 
algorithms for assessing risk; these go beyond the credit report to include information not 
included on it. Lenders dont always use the same credit reference agencies and in 
circumstances where one lender may refuse credit another may approve it.
Both Mr W and Shop Direct provided some additional comments that I have addressed 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I believe my second provisional decision still stands. 
In its response to this service Shop direct said that when Mr W complained, the complaints 
handler contacted the retailer to enquire what the reason for return was, and although no 
telephone calls have been located, it said internal evidence shows that the reason for return 
was incorrect item. Shop Direct said the delivery charge had already been refunded at this 
point; but as the delivery charge should have been refunded when the item was
returned it arranged for the credit file to be amended and £25 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Shop Direct went on to say that incorrect information was provided in its response to this 
service. It said it was stated that Mr W had not informed it of the reason for return, which it 
conceded was incorrect as it had already remedied this at the initial investigation stage. It 
apologised for this and although it believed the company remedied the issue in a timely 
manner and that the £25 was sufficient, it conceded that incorrect information was provided 
at the referral stage so it agreed to accept the increase to provide an additional £25 to Mr W.
While I note that Shop Direct hasnt commented on my conclusions regarding the CCR Im 
pleased it has agreed with my increase in compensation. 
Mr W said he had never been directed to Shop Directs website to arrange a return. Id like to 
clarify that this is what is written in the Very terms and conditions. Mr W also stated that he 
used Shop Directs returns note which is included with every item it sends out. He said he 
had followed this process before, which is to use the pre-printed returns label. Shop Direct 
has said that internal evidence shows the reason for return was incorrect item so I am 
satisfied it should have been aware this was the reason for return. 
Mr W also says that in any event, Shop Direct received and processed the item well within 
the 14 days, and CCR clearly states standard delivery should be refunded. He agreed to 
finalise this complaint and accepted the additional £25 compensation. 
I do understand Mr Ws frustration with Shop Direct regarding the CCR but it has agreed to 
pay the additional £25. My final decision
My final decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited must pay Mr W an additional 
£25 compensation. This is in addition to the £25 already paid to Mr W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman