DRN-3565151
The complaint
Mr O complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds refusal to cover treatment under his private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O holds private medical insurance cover with BUPA. Mr O was treated under the NHS for 
cancer and initially intended to have chemoradiotherapy, again under the NHS. However, he 
asked BUPA if it would cover proton beam therapy (PBT) on a private basis. BUPA refused 
to do so as it said PBT didnt meet the policy definition of eligible treatment. Unhappy with 
this, Mr O brought a complaint to this service. He went ahead with the treatment and paid for 
this himself.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the available 
evidence supported BUPAs view on the matter. 
Mr O requested an ombudsmans decision and so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy defines eligible treatment as:
treatment of
an acute condition, or
a mental health condition
together with the products and equipment used as part of the treatment that:
are consistent with generally accepted standards of medical practice and 
representative of best practices in the medical profession in the UK
are clinically appropriate in terms of type, frequency, extent, duration and the facility 
or location where the services are provided
are demonstrated through scientific evidence to be effective in improving health 
outcomes, and
are not provided or used primarily for the expediency of you or your consultant or 
other healthcare professional 
Mr Os consultant said the main benefit from PBT would be a reduction in toxicities which 
can cause damage to surrounding normal tissue, as well as less requirement for a feeding 
tube. He also confirmed there were currently three trials comparing PBT with standard 
radiotherapy. He has since acknowledged that PBT isnt the standard of care in the UK at 
the moment, though he thinks its likely to be in a few years time.
As our investigator has said, the NHS published a statement in 2019 on the use of PBT to 
treat head and neck cancer. The statement said they found insufficient evidence to 
demonstrate the superiority of PBT over standard treatment. The NHS decided against 
making the treatment available through routine commissioning.
The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) doesnt give any information 
about PBT in relation to treating head and neck cancer.
Whilst I appreciate there are trials ongoing, the available evidence doesnt support that PBT 
treatment is consistent with generally accepted standards of medical practice and 
representative of best practices in the medical profession in the UK. Consequently, I agree 
with our investigator that the treatment does not fall within the policy definition of eligible 
treatment, and it was appropriate for BUPA to turn down the claim.
BUPA has informed us that it does approve PBT for sinus tumours and salivary gland 
tumours, which Mr O believes to be at variance with its policy. I havent asked BUPA for its 
research into PBT for treatment of these conditions as it isnt relevant here. However, if 
BUPA has made the decision to step outside the policy terms and provide cover for PBT for 
these particular conditions, that would be up to BUPA and does not mean that it needs to do 
the same for other conditions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman