DRN-2314115
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA) wrongly declined his 
insurance claim. He also complains that RSAs representatives gave different opinions as to 
whether the claim would be accepted.
Its clear that other companies were involved in the administration of Mr Rs insurance policy 
and claim, so for clarity, any references to RSA include its agents.
What happened
After a period of bad weather, Mr R discovered a section of garden wall had collapsed where 
a tree had fallen. This was a boundary wall and the tree had been growing in his neighbours 
garden, so Mr R wasnt sure whose responsibility it would be to put it right. On 29 May 2020 
he called RSA to make a claim. He told them that he thought the damage had been caused 
when the wind moved the tree next to the wall. RSA sent a surveyor to assess the damage 
on 9 June 2020. 
The surveyor told Mr R that this wouldnt be covered under the storm damage section of his 
policy. He said this was because the damage was due to natural degradation of materials, 
caused by the roots of the tree gradually growing into the wall over a number of years. Mr R 
asked for the decision to be put in writing.
That same day, Mr R called RSA and asked them to change this to a claim for falling trees or 
branches, instead of storm damage. A few days later he received a letter from RSAs 
surveyor, saying his claim for storm damage had been declined. On 18 June 2020 Mr R 
complained to RSA that theyd got this wrong  that the claim should be under the falling 
trees and branches section of the policy. 
A week later, Mr R called RSA again to make sure his complaint had been passed on. He 
says that, during that conversation, RSAs representative looked at their surveyors photos. 
Mr R says she told him that she thought the damage could be covered under the falling trees 
peril, but the case had been referred to another team. On 6 July 2020, RSA told Mr R that 
his claim was declined under falling trees and branches, as well as storm damage. And the 
following month Mr R received RSAs final response letter, confirming that they believed his 
claim had been correctly declined under both perils. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. He thought RSA hadnt acted unfairly by 
relying on the available evidence and surveyors report to identify the main cause of the 
damage  and that theyd declined the claim in line with the terms of the policy. The 
investigator suggested Mr R might want to get his own surveyor to dispute the opinions 
given by RSAs surveyor.
 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view and provided further comments. In summary, Mr 
R says:
RSAs surveyors report showed that they declined his claim under the storm damage 
peril  they hadnt properly considered whether the claim could be covered under the 
falling trees peril.
The general exclusions RSA relied on in declining his claim werent relevant in this 
case. This was not a gradually operating cause, but a specific incident. The wall was 
structurally sound  the tree falling it caused violent damage.
After looking at the photographic evidence, one of RSAs representatives had said 
that she thought the damage could be covered by the falling trees and branches 
section of the policy. And he took this as constructive acceptance of his claim under 
the falling trees peril.
RSA pointed out that it hadnt been confirmed whether the damaged wall was in fact on Mr 
Rs land.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs claim on his home insurance
Insurers arent required to cover every eventuality  theyre entitled to set out what cover 
theyre prepared to offer. Ive read Mr Rs policy in detail and considered whether any of the 
different types of cover it provides would apply in this case. 
Cover for falling trees and branches is included, with no specific exclusions listed. But the 
policy booklet contains exclusions which apply to the whole policy, starting at page 27. This 
includes a paragraph under the heading wear and tear. This excludes any loss, damage, 
liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by, or resulting from, 
anything that happens gradually. Ive looked carefully at whether RSA had enough evidence 
to rely on that exclusion in this case.
In his report, RSAs surveyor says the wall was deteriorating and had been undermined by 
the root/vegetation growth. I can see that Mr R feels very strongly that the surveyor was 
wrong to say root growth and vegetation caused the wall to collapse. Mr R acknowledges 
that thered been a gradual invasion of what he describes as tendrils from the tree, but he 
feels this to be irrelevant to his claim. He says its natural for plants such as ivy to use 
garden walls for support. Mr R says this wasnt the cause of the problem in this case  he 
believes the wall collapsed because the tree snapped at the base of the trunk and fell onto it.  
  
As well as the surveyors report and photos, RSA have provided the audio notes of his visit. 
Ive reviewed all this evidence in detail. Having listened to the audio notes made during the 
surveyors visit to Mr Rs property, Im satisfied that he used the words root/vegetation 
growth to describe the parts of the tree that were growing through the wall.  Im satisfied that 
his photos show extensive root and fibrous material growing through the structure of the 
wall, as well as dry, crumbling mortar. Taking into account the size and weight of the tree 
and the extent to which it had grown through the wall, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
RSA to rely on their surveyors opinion in this case  that the gradual growth of the tree into 
the wall had eventually caused it to collapse. And Ive seen no other expert evidence to 
suggest that this finding was wrong.
Mr R feels that RSA didnt properly consider his claim under the falling trees peril. Hes also 
unhappy that, after looking at the photos, one of RSAs representatives thought his claim 
would be accepted under that peril. Ive looked into what happened here in more detail.
 
Ive read RSAs file notes, showing how Mr Rs claim and complaint were progressed. The 
claim was first considered as storm damage. But following Mr Rs complaint and phone conversation in June, Im satisfied that RSA reassessed the situation. Although they didnt 
ask for a revised report, Ive seen evidence that they took further advice from their surveyor 
as to whether Mr Rs claim could be covered under the falling trees peril. Their surveyor 
confirmed that the same general exclusion would apply. 
Although RSAs representative may have told Mr R that she thought the claim could be 
covered under the falling trees peril, she made him aware that she wasnt able to authorise 
this without checking with her colleagues in the Customer Relations Team. Ive seen 
evidence that she did this straight away  and Mr R received the appropriate response on 6 
July 2020.  So Im satisfied that RSA didnt do anything wrong here.
Who should pay for the damage?
Mr R acknowledges that the wall was vulnerable to damage by the tree due to the large size 
of the canopy and relatively insubstantial trunk  which was attached to the wall. But he says 
it wouldnt be reasonable to expect him to carry out maintenance on the tree to prevent it 
from damaging the wall, because it belonged to his neighbour.
 
Having reviewed the evidence, it does appear that the tree that caused the damage 
belonged to Mr Rs neighbour. The evidence shows that this tree was positioned against the 
wall - and had grown through it. The photos show the base of the trunk was relatively narrow 
compared to the width of the branches above it. Mr R says, and the photos tend to confirm, 
that the tree was using the wall for support. Ive seen no evidence as to who owns the wall. I 
understand that Mr Rs neighbour removed the fallen tree and rebuilt the wall in September 
2020. I also understand that, to date, Mr R hasnt been asked for any contribution towards 
the cost of this work. I consider it to be very unlikely that Mr R would be required to 
contribute to the cost of damage caused by his neighbours tree. But even if there was 
evidence before me that Mr R was the owner of the wall, I dont find his claim was covered 
for the reasons given above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. I realise that Mr R will be 
disappointed with this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman