DRN-1670869
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Ms H. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. RBS sold Ms H the policy 
at the same time that she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Ms H has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain 
why:
Ms H has said she told the bank she didnt want PPI, but the adviser said it would 
help get her credit application through. The problem I have, in making a decision on 
this, is that I couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and the tone in which 
they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of 
an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long 
as the policy is actually something worth having. The closer it gets to making 
someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less 
acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt 
be fair to say RBS did something wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
I think that, at least on the application form, RBS made Ms H aware that the PPI was 
optional and that she chose to take it  - I can see that the PPI option has been ticked 
on the form she signed. 
RBS didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms Hs individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well RBS explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
RBS gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont 
think full information about costs and benefits would have affected whether she took 
the PPI. I say this because, in her circumstances, its unlikely this would have made 
the PPI seem less useful. It could have paid out for longer than her full employer sick 
pay lasted, and it seems she didnt have good savings to fall back on. And it doesnt 
look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.
 This means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H. But RBS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms H because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms H about that. Because RBS didnt tell Ms H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Ms H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman