DRN-3217486
The complaint
L, a limited company, is unhappy because Lloyds Bank PLC did not reimburse the 
money it transferred to a fraudster.
 
What happened
On 3 December 2021, I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I explained why, 
based on what I had seen so far, I was intending to uphold the complaint in part. I wanted to 
give both parties a chance to respond to my findings. I have copied my provisional decision 
below and it forms part of this final decision. 
What happened
L is represented by one of its directors  Mr L. As he was the person who interacted with 
the fraudster, Ill be mostly referring to Mr L, rather than L.
L employed a builder to renovate a property it owns. The builder was suffering some 
cash flow problems due to the pandemic and asked for a part payment from L. Mr L 
agreed and, On 29 April 2020, he received an invoice containing the builders account 
details, by email, from the builder. Soon after, a second email followed. It claimed funds 
could not, in fact, be received into the account given on the invoice, and asked Mr L to 
confirm hed make the payment to a different account. After Mr L agreed, he received 
another email the following morning with different account details.
Mr L says he spoke to the builder that morning and they confirmed theyd sent him the 
most recent bank details hed received. In hindsight he thinks the builder was referring to 
the details hed sent the previous day, rather than those received that morning.
That afternoon Mr L attempted to add the new account details as a payee. Unlike the first 
set of details contained within the invoice, the second set of details didnt give an account 
name. Mr L made three different guesses, over four attempts, at the account name. On 
each occasion he received a negative Confirmation of Payee (CoP) message, advising 
him that the account details did not match. On the fourth attempt he decided to proceed 
with setting up the new payee despite this. At that time, Lloyds applied a delay which 
prevented a payment being made to a new payee until an hour after it had been set up. 
So, Mr L returned to work and only came to make the payment of £7,430 that evening. 
Unfortunately for Mr L, hed actually been communicating with a fraudster.
When, a few days later, the builder informed Mr L they hadnt been paid and the scam 
came to light, he reported the matter to Lloyds. It said Mr L had ignored several CoP 
messages when making the payments so, under the provisions of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model CRM Code, it was entitled to refuse reimbursement.
Our investigator agreed with Lloyds. They noted that Mr L had received several 
messages saying the account details didnt match  but had proceeded regardless. They 
also thought that the several hours taken to complete the payment gave Mr L sufficient 
time to check the account details before going ahead.
Mr L disagreed, in summary he said:
-He ought to have been informed whether the account was a close match to the 
correct details or not. If this had happened, he would have known that the issue 
was not how the builders name appeared on his account.
-He should have been informed whether he was paying a business or a 
personal account.
-CoP was poorly implemented by the bank and has since significantly improved  
with much more detailed and useful CoP messages.
-Hed confirmed the account details with the builder that morning, so it was 
reasonable for him to think that he and the builder were referring to the same 
set of details.
-He does not think the messages he saw met the definition of an Effective 
Warning under the Code.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CRM Code was introduced in 2019 to reimburse victims of APP scams in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. Here Lloyds argue that as Mr L ignored several negative 
CoP messages it can rely on one of the exceptions to reimbursement set out in the Code. 
The fact Mr L proceeded with the payment having received a negative CoP result is not 
sufficient for Lloyds to refuse reimbursement (though such an exception does exist in the 
Code it has yet to be implemented and is also dependent on the firm having met its own 
standards).
So, although Lloyds hasnt been particularly clear, the inference is that the negative CoP 
messages ought to have prompted Mr L to take further steps to establish that the recipient 
was legitimate  and therefore Mr L lacked a reasonable basis for believing the person he 
was paying was who he was expecting to pay (which is an exception to reimbursement 
under the Code).
The CRM Code sets out that if a consumer meets their Requisite Level of Care then they 
will be entitled to a full refund. If they dont, then consideration must still be given to whether 
a firm has met its standards. Of particular relevance here is whether, having identified a 
scam risk, the firm provided an Effective Warning. If it did not, and that failure is likely to 
have had a material effect on preventing the scam, then it will normally be liable for 50% of a 
customers losses.
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this case, I dont think Mr L had a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person they were expecting to pay, but 
neither do I think Lloyds provided an Effective Warning to L. So, Lloyds should refund 50% 
of Ls losses. Ill explain why below.
Did Mr L meet his Requisite Level of Care under the CRM Code?Without prior understanding of how scams of this nature work, they can be very convincing 
and difficult to spot  especially, as in this case, when the fraudulent email comes from the 
impersonated partys actual email address. Mr L does indeed say he wasnt aware of this 
type of scam, so I can understand why he may have been less likely to be on the lookout for 
its common features  such as the change of account details happening so soon after an 
invoice had been received. I can also understand why, because of the conversation hed had 
that morning, he was confident that the email had come from the builder.
So, despite one or two grammatical errors in the fraudulent email, at the point Mr L came to 
set up the new payee (before seeing the CoP messages), I think it was reasonable for him to 
believe that the email had come from the builder and contained their genuine account 
details.
Ive gone onto consider whether that belief ought to have changed in light of the negative 
CoP messages. The message, on each of the four occasions Mr L attempted to set up the 
payee, said the following:
Payee name and account number do not match. This might be because:
-You entered a nickname
-Youre trying to pay a business thats held in the owners personal name
-Its the wrong account number
Double check the details with the payee, we may not be able to recover your money if it 
goes to the wrong account.
Do you want to continue No or Yes.
The evidence Ive seen confirms Mr L attempted variations of the builders business and 
personal names  corroborating his testimony that he believed the negative results were 
simply down to the various ways the builders name might have appeared on their account.
So, while I understand why Mr L, believing he had already checked the account details that 
morning, and attributing an innocent explanation for the negative confirmation of payee 
results didnt foresee the risk of fraud, even after seeing the CoP messages. But, that wasnt 
the only risk. There was also the possibility that the builder had simply made a mistake when 
providing the account details to Mr L. I think thats something Mr L ought to have considered 
for a number of reasons:
-The details were written in the body of an email, rather than on an invoice, 
potentially increasing the risk of human error when the details were being 
communicated.
-The builder had (albeit mistakenly) only confirmed that hed sent the 
email that morning, not that the account details were correct.
-The negative CoP message specifically mentioned that the account details 
might not be right.
-Despite four separate attempts, Mr L was unable to obtain a match for the account 
details.If Mr L was unaware of this type of scam, then its actually the possibility that there had been 
a mistake with the account details that Id expect him to be mainly considering.
So, despite the explanation he attributed to the CoP warnings, I think it should have been 
reasonably in the contemplation of Mr L that the account details may be incorrect. He ought 
to have known that the earlier conversation with the builder was not enough to confirm the 
account details were accurate and the CoP message suggested a simple step he could have 
taken to ensure that they were (albeit not necessarily one that would have protected him 
against fraud).
I also think the gap of several hours between Mr L setting up the payment and making it is 
relevant here. He had time to think about the fact the payment details didnt match and, 
crucially, to contact the builder to confirm they were correct. He didnt do this, and while he 
might have made the payment believing he was paying the builder, there was a clear risk he 
was paying someone else.
I agree that the way that CoP has been implemented has changed over time and there are 
features of the system that werent in place then that might have alerted Mr L to what was 
happening. But I can only consider whether Mr Ls belief was reasonable based on the 
information he saw at the time and, overall, I dont think he held a reasonable basis of belief 
that he was paying the person he was expecting to pay.
Did Lloyds meet its standards as a firm under the CRM Code?
As noted, Lloyds also have standards under the CRM Code, of particular relevance here is 
their obligation, having identified a scam risk, to provide an Effective Warning. Given the 
significant size of the payment and, as Ill go on to discuss, how unusual it was for L, I think 
Lloyds ought to have recognised a scam risk and provided a warning.
Its important to distinguish Effective Warnings and negative confirmation of payee results 
under the Code. Effective Warnings are intended specifically to address the risk of, and 
enable customers to protect themselves from, APP scams. An Effective Warning must, as a 
minimum, meet the definition under the Code  that is to be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific. Messages accompanying negative confirmation of payee results, though 
sometimes mentioning the possibility of fraud, are primarily intended to warn customers that 
payment details do not match (as was the case here).
I agree with Mr L that the negative confirmation of payee results are not Effective Warnings, 
in the sense that they are not presumably intended to be Effective Warnings but rather serve 
a largely different purpose altogether.
As Lloyds have confirmed they provided no warnings about APP scams during the payment 
journey, and theres no reason to think an Effective Warning wouldnt have had a material 
impact on preventing the scam, I dont think theyve met their standards as a firm and should 
provide a refund of 50% of Ls loss.
Could Lloyds have done anything else to protect L from financial harm from fraud?
Unlike the investigator, I also think the transaction did stand out as being remarkable. In the 
six months before the fraud, there was one very large CHAPS payment, but the largest 
faster payment was for just over £1,000. On this basis, I think Lloyds should have contacted 
Mr L before allowing the payment to leave his account. If it had done so, given that it would 
have been aware of the earlier confirmation of payee mismatches and, taking into account 
its knowledge of scams, I think Lloyds would have advised L to check the account details 
over the phone or in person and, most likely, the scam would have come to light. But, as Ive already set out, I think Mr L had a role to play in what happened, so I think a 50% refund is 
still the fair outcome. That means this finding doesnt change the overall outcome Ive 
reached.
Turning to interest, the money came from Ls current account and was going to be used for a 
specific purpose  to pay the builder. L wasnt deprived of the funds until it paid the builder 
again as it always intended to make the payment and be without the money. Mr L says the 
invoice was not paid until 19 April 2021. So, I think interest should be paid from that date. As 
its been deprived of the funds since then, and its not clear how they would have been used, 
I think interest should be paid at 8%.
Finally, Im satisfied that Lloyds did what it could to recover Ls funds  it contacted the bank 
which received Ls money the same day the fraud was reported but that bank said no funds 
remained.
My provisional decision
Im minded to uphold this complaint in part and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay L:
-Half the lost funds - £3,715
-Interest at 8% simple per annum on that amount from 19 April 2021 to the 
date of settlement
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision and Mr L, on behalf of L, had nothing further 
to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds have accepted my provisional decision and Mr L has made no further 
submissions, my final decision is unchanged from the provisional findings Ive set out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC 
to pay L:
- Half the lost funds - £3,715
- Interest at 8% simple per annum on that amount from 19 April 2021 to the 
date of settlement
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman