DRN-3193643
The complaint
Mr N complains Nationwide Building Society declined his request for a Covid-related 
payment deferral on his personal loan.
  
What happened
Mr N had a personal loan with Nationwide. His repayments were about £440 a month. In 
March 2020 he contacted Nationwide to say he was struggling financially because of the 
pandemic. It agreed Mr N could miss his March 2020 repayment. In April 2020 Mr N asked 
for a three-month Covid-related payment deferral, meaning he wouldnt need to make 
repayments in April, May or June 2020. His request was declined. Mr N didnt think this was 
fair, so he complained.
 
Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong as it said by the time it had processed his 
request Mr N was two months behind on his loan. It did, however, pay him £25 
compensation in recognition of some customer service issues. Mr N asked our service for an 
independent review.
 
The investigator concluded, in summary, Nationwide ought to have accepted Mr Ns request. 
He thought had Nationwide done so Mr N would have ultimately been entitled - under 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance - to not have to make repayments until 
October 2020. He recommended Nationwide remove any adverse information reported to 
the credit reference agencies about the loan from April to September 2020 and pay Mr N 
£150 compensation, in total, in recognition of the distress and inconvenience hed been 
caused.  
Nationwide accepted the investigators recommendation. Mr N didnt as in the meantime the 
loan had defaulted, meaning the amendments to his credit file wouldnt help. The 
investigator queried what had happened with the loan since the complaint was first raised. 
Nationwide responded to say regardless of whether it had accepted Mr Ns request for a 
payment deferral or not, by October 2020 he would have needed to get the loan back on 
track. But when it discussed Mr Ns financial circumstances in September 2020 it was 
apparent he couldnt afford to make loan repayments going forward, so it recorded the loan 
as in default.
Our investigator considered whether, had Nationwide accepted Mr Ns request for a payment 
deferral in April 2020, the loan would still have been defaulted in October 2020. He 
concluded it most likely would have. This was because by September 2020 Mr Ns financial 
circumstances hadnt changed in a way which would allow him affordably to start making 
repayments to the loan. So, the investigator thought it was fair for Nationwide to default the 
loan. But he still thought Nationwide should amend Mr Ns credit file for April to September 
2020 and pay him £150 compensation in total. Mr N didnt agree so the complained has 
been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its been accepted by both parties Mr Ns request for a payment deferral ought to have been 
accepted in April 2020, so I wont go over that ground in detail here. But for completeness, I 
agree his request should have been accepted.
If Mr Ns request for a three-month payment deferral had been accepted in April 2020, he 
wouldnt have needed to make a repayment to the loan in April, May or June 2020. And 
following further guidance by the FCA, and given Mr Ns circumstances hadnt changed, Im 
persuaded a further three-month payment deferral would have likely been agreed, meaning 
Mr N wouldnt have needed to make repayments in July, August or September 2020. But a 
payment deferral doesnt mean everything stops. During the deferral interest continued to 
accrue and by the end of the deferral arrears need to be addressed and repayments need to 
restart. 
Nationwide has explained it spoke with Mr N in September 2020 and took details of his 
financial circumstances which showed he didnt have any disposable income. This meant he 
couldnt afford to make repayments, which is why it defaulted the loan. Its further explained 
that had Mr Ns request for a payment deferral been agreed for April to September 2020, it 
would still have defaulted the loan because Mr N wouldnt have been able to start making 
repayments again. To support this assertion, further to what its said about Mr Ns disposable 
income, its pointed out since defaulting the loan Mr N has been making repayments of £50 
or £100 a month, which is considerably less than full repayments would have been, even if 
the loan term had been extended. 
I sympathise with the situation Mr N has found himself in. Afterall, its not his fault his 
business has been impacted by a pandemic. But I must consider the complaint on the facts. 
I agree Nationwide let him down by not accepting his request for a payment deferral in 
April 2020. But a payment deferral is a short-term measure and Im persuaded it was fair and 
reasonable for Nationwide to default the loan in October 2020 when it became apparent 
Mr N couldnt afford full repayments to the loan. It follows I wont be requiring Nationwide to 
remove the default. I will, however, require it to remove any adverse data reported from April 
to September 2020. I will also require Nationwide to pay Mr N £150, in total, in recognition of 
the impact declining his request for a payment deferral in April 2020 had on him.  
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should:
- Remove any adverse data related to this loan from April to September 2020 from 
Mr Ns credit file; and
- Pay Mr N a further £125 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was 
caused.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to put things right as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman