DRN-2763212
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as A complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to 
terminate their business account and rescind their loan which was granted under the Bounce 
Bank Loan Scheme.
Mr R, As director, brings the complaint on As behalf.
What happened
In May 2020, A applied for a loan with HSBC under the Bounce Back Loan (BBL) Scheme. 
The loan was approved and a few days later, A received £50,000 of loan funds into its 
account. Later in May 2020, HSBC tried to contact A for some further information. They 
couldnt reach A so sent a letter which asked A to complete some forms on its online 
banking service.
In June 2020, HSBC placed a block on As account  and A complained. Mr R said the block 
caused severe financial distress because A couldnt pay its bills.
On 21 July 2020, HSBC made the decision to immediately end the banking relationship with 
A and sent a letter to notify them of this decision.
In October 2020, HSBC asked A for the loan money back which had been granted under the 
BBL Scheme. And on 16 October 2020, HSBC used the money from As account to repay 
the loan. The remaining money left in the account  around £54,000  was sent by cheque 
to A. Mr R explained that he hasnt been able to cash the cheque as he hasnt been able to 
open another account for A.
The investigator who considered As complaint didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. 
She said HSBC were entitled to block and close the account. And she was satisfied, based 
on the terms of the BBL Scheme, that they could offset the balance from the remaining 
money in As account. And while she recognised the delays in HSBC sending the cheque to 
A, she didnt think it had made a difference overall as the cheque hadnt been cashed.
Mr R, on behalf of A, didnt agree. He said this whole situation had left him in a bad state and 
he either wants the BBL reinstated or compensation for the time A has been without its 
money. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything differently. I know this will come 
as a great disappointment to Mr R, but Ive explained my reasons below.
Account block and closure
HSBC are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC were acting in line with 
these obligations when reviewing, blocking and subsequently closing As account.
HSBC are required to regularly review the relationships they hold with their customers and 
its often appropriate to request more information when doing so. Im pleased to see HSBC 
attempted to contact A while carrying out their review to ask for the information they needed.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr R, on behalf of A, decided to end the agreement with HSBC and use another bank  
he wouldnt have to explain why. 
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. While Im aware 
HSBC hasnt shared the reasons for their decision with A, Ive reviewed their reasons and 
Ive seen nothing to suggest HSBC have acted unreasonably. 
Withdrawal of the BBL
Under the BBL agreement, HSBC have the right to default the loan in a few specific 
circumstances  and Im satisfied that their actions in this case were fair. 
I also appreciate HSBC used the money from As account to repay the loan. However, the 
loan terms say:
If you have money in one of your accounts (except for trust, client or joint accounts), 
we may set it off against any amount you owe us which is due for payment on other 
accounts (including money you owe on a joint account) so it reduces or repays the 
amount you owe us. We'll only do this with accounts in your name and after we have 
checked that you have enough left in your accounts to cover essential living costs.
Im satisfied, based on these terms, that HSBC didnt do anything wrong in using the funds A 
held in its current account to settle the debt owed on its BBL account. 
Repayment of the money
Ive thought carefully about the time it took HSBC from deciding to end the relationship with 
A in July 2020 to repaying the net balance to A in October 2020. I recognise HSBC could 
probably have repaid this money sooner. However, like the investigator, I dont think it has 
impacted As position. I say that because Mr R said he hasnt been able to open another 
account for A. And therefore, even if HSBC had released the money in July 2020, its 
unlikely A would have been able to benefit from it.
Mr R has explained the impact the situation has had on him on as an individual  and I 
appreciate that it would have been extremely distressing for him. But the relationship HSBC 
had was with A, not Mr R as a consumer. And the complaint surrounds what happened to 
the business agreement A held with HSBC. In other words, Mr R represents A, but he 
doesnt have an applicable customer relationship in his own right. He may feel he and his 
company are one and the same, and this is understandable, but under the dispute resolution 
rules (DISP) in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook this is not the case. Simply put, a 
limited company cannot experience personal distress or upset so Mr Rs distress and 
frustration are not something I can consider as part of this decision.
OverallOverall, Im satisfied HSBC were acting in line with their legal and regulatory obligations 
when reviewing and subsequently closing As account. They were also acting within their 
rights, under the loan terms, to terminate the loan facility and recall the funds, and to offset 
the balance using the money held in As account. So, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything 
to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman