DRN-3729774
The complaint
Miss G complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc has treated unfairly by asking her to 
return £2,960 it says was paid to her by mistake. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
In April 2022 Miss G contacted the Co-op because she had noticed two transactions on her 
account that she didnt recognise totalling around £1,845. There were also some pending 
debit card payments totalling around £1,918 which were blocked and the £1,845 was 
refunded to her account. A few days later, Miss G wanted to attend a hospital appointment 
when she noticed her account had been frozen so she called the Co-op. Unhappy with the 
reasons she was given for the account being frozen, Miss G then made a complaint. 
The Co-op started to investigate the complaint, but during this time Miss G remained 
unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. She said that she had never had 
£2,960 deposited into her account and wants the money that has been taken from her to be 
returned. Miss G said she hadnt agreed to let the Co-op take the balance of her cash-ISA 
and that she is being asked to pay the outstanding amount of £339.94. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that the Co-op had 
provided evidence to show that the £2,960 had been paid into Miss Gs account incorrectly 
and that Miss G wasnt entitled to this money. So, Co-op hadnt unfairly asked her to return 
the money that was outstanding. 
Miss G disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said the Co-op hasnt 
contacted her about any of the suspicious activity on her account and it cannot provide 
evidence to show that this money belongs to another customer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Miss G has said she didnt receive the £2,900 from another customer into her account and 
wants the Co-op to provide proof that this is what happened. 
The Co-op said that it had frozen Miss Gs account because on 11 April 2022 she received 
£2,960 into her account which had been paid to her mistakenly by another customer. And 
because Miss G didnt have enough money in her account when it tried to reclaim this 
money, it froze her account. It completed its fraud investigation and refunded two payments 
Miss G didnt recognise and blocked a further three debit card payments that were due to be 
debited from her. The Co-op said it was contacted on 25 April 2022 by another customer 
who had paid Miss G the money by mistake. 
On 27 April the Co-op has said that it investigated what had happened with the £2,960 
payment. And it explained the money from its other customer had been paid to Miss G by 
mistake so it took the balance of her cash-ISA (£2,620.06) which left a remaining balance of 
£339.94 outstanding. 
Ive reviewed a copy of a bank statement that Miss G sent to this service. This shows the 
£2,960 being transferred into her account on 11 April 2022. Ive also considered the account 
notes provided by the Co-op from another customer who transferred the £2,960 into 
Miss Gs account and that a decision was fairly made by the fraud team that Miss G wasnt 
entitled to this money. As a result, Im satisfied that the £2,960 didnt belong to Miss G and 
she isnt entitled to keep it. 
I appreciate Miss G is unhappy with the different explanations Co-op provided to her about 
the transactions and the fraud investigation that took place. But I can see that the Co-op 
wasnt told about the £2,960 until 25 April 2022 and it didnt know before that point why that 
money had been transferred. So, it couldnt provide an answer to Miss Gs questions before 
that date when she was discussing the fraudulent transactions on her account that were 
refunded.  
From the evidence Ive seen, the Co-op was advised by Miss G about some unrecognised 
transactions. The two that were debited from her account were refunded and the remaining 
ones due to leave her account were blocked. Its then provided evidence to this service that 
has satisfied me that the £2,960 in question here isnt Miss Gs money. It follows that the Co-
op has then fairly asked her to return this money. And I note the Co-op has told this service 
that it doesnt blame her for whats happened here in relation to the fraudulent transactions, 
and that she can speak to it about repaying the outstanding £339.94 and to unblock her 
account. That seems reasonable to me. 
Overall, I dont think the Co-op has treated Miss G unfairly here. So, Im not going to ask it to 
do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman