DRN-3739627
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled and settled a 
claim he made under his home insurance policy for storm damage. 
What happened
Mr P holds a household insurance policy with Lloyds. In mid-February 2022, he said there 
was a storm. During this period of poor weather, he said he heard a very loud cracking 
sound. When he was able to go outside, he noticed that there were areas of damage to 
some of the pointing in the roof, which had detached and blown to the ground.
Mr P contacted Lloyds to make a claim under his policy for storm damage. He submitted a 
claim online on 8 March 2022 and, in response to this, Lloyds asked him to provide 
photographs of the roof and a repair quote from a roofing company.
Lloyds appointed a Personal Claims Consultant (PCC) to assess the cause of damage and 
assist it in dealing with the claim. The PCC undertook a desktop review using the 
photographs, quotation and information Mr P had provided and informed Lloyds that thermal 
expansion and contraction had caused the reported issues with the roof. The PCC said this 
process had happened gradually. So, Lloyds repudiated Mr Ps claim.
Mr P asked Lloyds to reconsider his claim by way of a complaint. When Lloyds responded it 
maintained its repudiation decision stating that, while it was satisfied there were storm 
conditions prevalent at the time the damage was sustained, it thought the damage had been 
caused gradually as indicated by the PCC. It said damage caused in this way was excluded 
by Mr Ps policy. So, it didnt think its decision to decline his claim was incorrect. But it 
thought it could have reached a decision about the claim sooner and paid Mr P £100 
compensation to reflect the trouble and upset this would have caused.
Being dissatisfied with how Lloyds had dealt with his complaint Mr P referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened. They initially recommended 
upholding this complaint. However, following the receipt of further information from Lloyds, 
they reversed the initial uphold view. They thought Lloyds had acted fairly in declining his 
claim but recommended it pay Mr P an additional £100 in compensation to settle the 
complaint. Both Mr P and Lloyds disagreed with our investigators view of this complaint. So, 
Ive been asked to reach a decision as to the fairest way to resolve maters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr P and Lloyds that Ive read everything thats been sent. So, if 
Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think Lloyds made a mistake in deciding Mr Ps claim, or 
treated him unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right.  
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mr Ps property. However, theres disagreement 
between him, Lloyds and its appointed agent about the cause of the damage and the correct 
outcome of this claim. 
Mr P would like Lloyds to cover the damage to his property because he feels it was caused 
by adverse weather. His policy with Lloyds provides cover for damage caused by a range of 
perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. 
But, for a claim to be successful, the onus rests on Mr P to show that the damage hes 
claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in his policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr Ps complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in mind. 
And I should also clarify that the answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this 
service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr Ps policy defines the word storm as:
strong winds with gusts of at least 55 mph, sometimes accompanies by rain; and/or hail or 
snow of such intensity or weight that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
So, Ive thought about this definition when deciding whether there were storm conditions on 
or around the date Mr Ps claim.
Mr P pointed to a storm that occurred in mid-February 2022. He thinks this was the date 
damage was caused to his pointing. Weather reports relevant to Mr Ps locality show that the 
highest wind speeds recorded were 56 and 62 mph on 16 and 18 February respectively. As 
this meets the policy definition of a storm, Im persuaded that storm conditions existed at 
around the date of the damage. It follows that I can answer question one affirmatively.
Turning to question two, Ive thought about whether the damage claimed is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. Here, some pointing in the roof became detached and fell 
to the ground. Im satisfied that the damage reported is something that could be expected 
following a storm. I can therefore answer this question affirmatively.
For me to uphold Mr Ps complaint, Id have to be satisfied on balance that a storm was the 
main cause of the damage he reported to Lloyds. And, taking everything into account, Im 
not persuaded the damage is consistent with a one-off storm event. Ill explain why.
Lloyds appointed a PCC to provide an opinion on the cause of damage. Im satisfied the 
PCC had significant experience of assessing building claims. So, it isnt unreasonable for 
Lloyds to use the PCCs expertise in assessing a storm claim.  
After undertaking a desk top review of the information Mr P had provided, the PCC informed 
Lloyds that:all that pointing to the porch roof verge and main roof verge is historic, you can clearly see 
the moss growth. Thermal expansion and contraction causes hairline cracks, water gets in 
and when it freezes it expands, thus causing the cracks to widen, the pointing then falls out.
Its clear that Mr P disagrees with the PCCs opinion on the cause of damage. But I havent 
seen any evidence that discredits its opinion. 
While the PCC didnt attend Mr Ps property to assess it in person, Im persuaded it had 
sufficient information on which to determine the cause of damage here. And, impartially, I 
think the photographs Mr P provided support the PCCs opinion that the mortar bond has 
deteriorated and weakened the pointing in some areas due to age related wear and tear.
Im satisfied that Lloyds has shown our service cogent evidence, which demonstrates that 
the damage, most likely, occurred due to the pre-existing condition of Mr Ps property. I dont 
think the pointing would have dislodged when it did had it not been damaged previously. So, 
I dont believe the storm was the dominant cause of damage. I think its most likely the 
adverse weather that Mr P experienced in mid-February 2022 highlighted the pre-existing 
condition of his roof and caused it to worsen.  
Lloyds policy booklet makes it clear that loss or damage caused by wear and tear, a lack of 
maintenance or damage thats happened gradually over a period of time is specifically 
excluded under Mr Ps insurance policy. This is in common with most home insurance 
policies because insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen. And something wearing out 
or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
As Lloyds has shown that the damage that occurred isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ps insurance policy, I dont think its decision about his claim was unfair and 
unreasonable. And this means I cant ask it to pay this claim.
Ill turn now to the final part of Mr Ps complaint, which is about the service he received form 
Lloyds. 
Within its final response to Mr Ps complaint, Lloyds acknowledged that it should have 
declined his claim earlier. It paid him £100 compensation to recognise this delay. In thinking 
about whether this was a fair resolution Ive looked carefully at the chronology of the claim.
On 8 March, Mr P submitted photographs of the damage he reported to Lloyds. It accepts 
that at this stage of the claim it should have appointed the PCC or declined the claim based 
on the photographs. However, instead, Lloyds asked Mr P to submit an amended invoice 
from the roofing company hed approached. This caused him to have to obtain a further 
invoice, which was unnecessary in all the circumstances.
Like our investigator, I think that if Lloyds had appointed a PCC at the outset, Mr Ps claim 
would have been declined sooner. I also think that, in requesting clearer invoices, Lloyds 
created a legitimate expectation in Mr Ps mind that his claim was likely to succeed.
I can see that, on 28 March, Lloyds informed Mr P that his claim was being declined. It 
stated that the cause of damage was due to a gradual operating cause. I think this 
explanation was vague. I say this because Lloyds didnt expand on why it thought the 
damage had happened gradually. 
A full explanation for the repudiation decision wasnt provided to Mr P until 31 March. As the 
PCCs opinion on the likely cause of damage had been known earlier, I think this explanation 
could have been provided to Mr P sooner. It would have informed Mr Ps understanding of 
why his claim had been declined.In this case its clear the service from Lloyds could have been better. Its reasonable to 
expect it to decide the outcome of a claim at the earliest opportunity and provide clear 
information about repudiation decisions to its policyholders to encourage transparency and 
confidence. Its therefore reasonable for Lloyds to pay a sum of compensation to Mr P that 
properly acknowledges his experience.
Putting things right
We arent here to punish businesses. And, to put things right, Id have asked Lloyds to pay 
an appropriate amount of compensation to reflect the trouble and upset caused to Mr P by 
what happened.
Lloyds had already paid Mr P £100 in compensation prior to this complaint being referred to 
our service. Like our investigator, Im not persuaded this amount goes far enough. Mr P 
doesnt think the £200 compensation recommended by our investigator adequately reflects 
his distress and inconvenience. But Im afraid I agree with our investigators view that £200 
is a fair amount of compensation in the overall circumstances of this complaint. I havent 
seen enough evidence to persuade me that a higher award is warranted and the amount 
recommended by our investigator is in line with our approach in similar scenarios. So, Ill be 
directing Lloyds to pay £200 in compensation to Mr P  less the payment already made.
I know that Mr P will be disappointed by this decision. But this now brings to an end what we, 
in trying to resolve his dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help 
Mr P any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I  uphold this complaint in part. Im aware that Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited has paid £100 compensation to Mr P. My decision is that it should pay Mr 
P an additional £100 to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman