DRN-1080339
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way a payment from his account has been dealt with.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In June 2018 Mr M made a payment of £22.80 on his debit card. But it wasnt until 
May 2019 that TSB said thered been an issue with its systems and some 
transactions hadnt been debited from customers accounts. This is an unfortunate 
and significant delay. 
Mr M would like TSB to ensure its systems work and errors like this do not occur 
again. But this service isnt a regulator. We cant require TSB to change it practices 
and procedures. General issues about how the banking industry works are a matter 
for the Financial Conduct Authority.
TSB has said it will pay this transaction on Mr Ms behalf. That seems fair given the 
payment hasnt apparently appeared as a debit on his statements and given the 
passage of time.
TSB has also offered to pay Mr M £25 compensation for the trouble and upset it has 
caused including for the way it dealt with him when he contacted it. But he doesnt 
think this is enough for its poor customer service and the significant stress and 
inconvenience he says he has experienced. 
Taking everything into account, including the fact that Mr M was apparently unaware 
of the problem until TSB contacted him in May 2019 and the level of awards we 
make, l think on balance that a payment of £25 compensation for this is fair. And I 
dont think I can reasonably require TSB to do or pay anything more as Mr M would 
like.
 
For these reasons, although recognising Mr Ms frustration, I do not uphold this complaint. I 
simply leave it to him to decide if he now wants to accept TSBs offer of £25 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about TSB Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2020.Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman