DRN-3121094
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has avoided
his life and critical illness insurance policy and refused his claim as a result of this.
What happened
Mr L took out a decreasing term life and critical illness policy with L&G in November 2014
with a starting sum insured of £488,750. Hed originally applied in April 2014 and the
application was cancelled, as Mr L didnt follow up when he was asked to attend a nurses
examination. The application was reinstated in October 2014 and was eventually completed
in November 2014. Mr L completed the application through his IFA and was sent a policy
document after he accepted the terms offered.
Mr L made a claim early in 2019 following a diagnosis of bowel cancer. Following an
investigation, L&G avoided Mr Ls policy, refunded his premiums and refused his claim on
the basis hed failed to take reasonable care not to make misrepresentations when taking
out the policy. L&Gs decision was based on the answers it says Mr L gave when completing
the application with his IFA and during a nurses examination. Its also said he
misrepresented when he confirmed the details about his medical history were correct in a
Personal Details Document (PDD). He was asked to check and confirm the details were 
correct by signing and sending back a Checking Your Details (CYD) form.
I havent included the questions on the report provided following the nurses examination, but
the questions on the application form which L&G says Mr L incorrectly answered as no,
which he confirmed as correct on the PDD are as follows:
Whether hed ever been referred to a psychiatrist for a mental illness.
Whether hed ever been seen by an alcohol specialist or attended an alcohol support
group.
Whether hed ever been told by a health professional to reduce the amount of alcohol he
drank.
Whether hed ever been seen by a health professional for anxiety, depression or any
mental illness thats required treatment or counselling in the last five years.
Whether hed been seen by a health professional for any condition affecting his eyes or
vision not wholly corrected by spectacles, lenses or laser treatment.
His family history of type 2 diabetes and ischaemic heart disease.
It is not in dispute that Mr L had previously suffered from alcohol dependency and had
treatment for this or that hed suffered from and seen a psychiatrist for mental illness. And he
suffers from macular degeneration and had seen specialists about this.
Mr L complained to L&G. He said that he didnt answer questions on these issues
incorrectly. And he also said L&G had access to the correct information anyway from
checking previous applications hed made. He also thinks L&G checked his medical records
at the time he made his application in 2014.
L&G rejected Mr Ls complaint. And Mr L made a complaint to us about L&Gs decision to
avoid his policy and refuse his claim.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ls complaint and wrote explaining why he didnt
think it should be upheld. This was because he was satisfied that L&G had acted in
accordance with the relevant legislation when it avoided Mr Ls policy.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on 16 August and set out what Id provisionally decided as follows:
Mr L and his representative have made very detailed submissions. And I have considered
these. However, as we are an informal dispute resolution service, I have focused on what I
consider to be the key considerations in determining the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr
Ls complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care required is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
I have also considered the 2019 ABI Code of Practice For Individual and Group Life, Critical
Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products. This represented good industry practice
at the time Mr L made his claim.
Mr L has explained the application process in detail and how it was what he has described
as handed off. He thinks this means the basic details were completed on-line by his IFA
and then he was provided with a medical questionnaire to complete manually and send to
L&G. L&G  on the other hand - has said the application was not handed-off, as Mr L
understood it. And its admitted its reference to this in a letter may have caused confusion. It
has said it would have been more accurate for the letter to have said the fully completed
application was submitted to us electronically by the IFA. And its said its hand off process
only came into effect on 24 November 2019 (after Mr L completed his application) and this is
an electronic process.
The reference to the application being handed off in L&Gs letter does seem rather odd. But
L&G has sent a copy of a service development update, which Im satisfied shows that the
hand-off process only came in from 24 November 2019. This shows it gave the agent the
option to hand-off the medical questions for the client to complete electronically, but did not
involve a hand-written medical questionnaire. And in the letter Ive referred to, L&Gs case
handler did say clearly that L&G did not offer the service of completing the life and medical
application direct with Mr L. So, I dont think this letter in itself shows L&G allowed Mr Ls IFA
to hand-off his application and leave him to complete a medical questionnaire manually and
send this to L&G.
Ive also spoken to Mr Ls IFA, who has now retired. He admitted his memory of Mr Ls
application in 2014 wasnt very good. But he did say that he could not remember using a
process for L&G applications where he provided a separate medical questionnaire to a clientfor them to complete manually and return to L&G.
And L&G has explained how the reference to a standard application as opposed to a priority
application was for policies with a sum insured of over £600,000. And it has also explained
how the standard process was interactive. And Im satisfied by its explanations on these
points.
Im also satisfied by L&Gs explanation about how answers were added to their system. Its
explained that at no point were medical answers pre-populated. The basic information used
to produce the original quotation, such as height, weight etc would have been transferred to
the application form to save the IFA rekeying them. L&G has also explained how an
application Mr L made in 2012 did have pre-populated information, as it was submitted under
a different process. It has also explained that when Mr Ls 2014 application was cancelled
the medical information and bank details were disabled, so the information could not be
viewed at this point. And when the application was reinstated, this data was re-enabled. And
Im also satisfied with this explanation.
Mr L has referred to the activity log showing that L&G received documents from him on 28
April 2014, which he has suggested was the medical questionnaire. But I think these entries
could be there simply as a result of someone at L&G assessing his application.
Mr L has said L&Gs system notes on 25 April 2014 (OLPConnect pages 4-18) show his IFA
logged in at 4pm and added Mr Ls name and address at 4.09 and his GP details at 4.16 and
then submitted the application at 4.22. Mr L has further suggested it is inconceivable that his
IFA could have gone through all the medical questions with him in the short period of time
between inputting his GP details and submitting the application. I can of course see Mr Ls
point. But L&G has insisted that the fact the application was handed-off does not mean it
would have received a medical questionnaire directly from Mr L. And there is nothing from
L&Gs notes that suggest a medical questionnaire was sent. I also find L&Gs evidence that
the electronic hand-off process didnt come in until November 2019 persuasive. And this
makes me think it is more likely than not that the health questions were answered on-line by
Mr Ls IFA at some point before he submitted the application.
I think this view is supported by the email Mr L has provided from his IFA dated 25 April
2014, which shows hed submitted the application to L&G and that it was in the process of
being underwritten. This suggests to me that his IFA had submitted more than basic details
at this point, as I cant really see how he can have thought L&G would be able to underwrite
the application without answers to questions about Mr Ls medical history. I appreciate Mr L
has argued that his IFA would have thought L&G would do this based on many assumptions,
but if all the IFA had put in was the basic information like, height, weight etc, I cant really
see he can have thought there was anyway the application could realistically have been
being underwritten with only the most basic of information.
I appreciate the IFA said in his email L&G would send Mr L a medical questionnaire to
confirm medical history and it is not clear exactly what he was referring to. But, based on
what Ive seen, I think it is more likely than not that at the point the IFA submitted the
application electronically the health questions on it had been answered. I say this due to the
IFAs reference to the application being in the process of being underwritten, which, as I said
earlier, seems unlikely if only basic information had been given. This is in addition to what
L&G has said and the fact the IFA cant recall a process for L&G where he provided a
questionnaire for a client to fill in and return separately.
In addition, if Mr L had completed a medical questionnaire at this point and then again in
November 2014, as hes suggested, it would mean there would be no record at all of L&G
receiving two medical questionnaires on their system notes and theyd have mislaid both ofthem, despite having other forms signed by Mr L at the same times. And despite it having
comprehensive system notes showing everything that happened with Mr Ls applications
including correspondence in and out. Therefore, I think its more likely than not that Mr L
didnt complete separate medical questionnaires. I appreciate he recalls things differently,
but I have to decide what is more likely than not based on the evidence I have.
If there wasnt a separate medical questionnaire completed by Mr L, it means the answers
on the application submitted to L&G to the abovementioned questions were wrong. And,
while it is not clear why, I think it is more likely than not that either Mr L or his IFA on his
behalf failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when answering these
questions.
Mr L has explained that he got a call from L&G in May or June 2014 and hes said he was
asked detailed questions about his medical history. But in the end he decided not to go
ahead with the application at this stage. Its not clear from L&Gs system notes exactly what
its staff were doing, but it shows Mr Ls application was locked all the way through to 3 June
and that it was then cancelled on 25 July. And I think its clear from the evidence L&G has
provided that it wanted more information including a nurses examination. But nothing further
was done, as Mr L decided not to go ahead. And theres no evidence on L&Gs system
records to suggest it made a call to Mr L, so I dont think this happened.
Mr L has admitted that he got the PDD to check in early November 2014 after his application
had been reconsidered. And hes said he studied this and realised it was wrong. Hes said
he made several hand-written changes to it to explain that he wasnt 100% healthy and sent
it back to L&G with the acceptance form. Hes said he didnt return the CYD form at the
same time, as the information on the PDD was incorrect.
Mr L thinks that in response to the manually amended PDD, L&G sent him another set of
forms, including another full medical questionnaire to complete and a direct debit form. And
he has said he also got a letter reminding him to choose one of the options, which crossed in
the post with his amended PDD form.
Mr L has explained how he then became distracted, having just moved house, and didnt
return any further documents until late November under pressure from L&G via his IFA. Hes
said at this point he sent back four documents in one envelope:
A medical questionnaire;
another medical consent form;
a CYD form (without a PDD); and
a direct debit form
The CYD form had the following warning at the top of it:
 If the answers on your application are not correct, are incomplete, or are out of date it may
mean that a claim will be declined and the policy or policies cancelled. In the event of a claim
we may request a report from your doctor to support your application answers. Please tell us
straight away if you need to change any of your answers before your policy starts. Please
read the personal details document carefully.
There was a question below this Have we got your details right? with boxes to tick yes or
no below it. There is then space below this to make any changes to the health details
previously provided. Mr L ticked yes and didnt detail any changes to his health details.
Mr L accepts with hindsight yes was the wrong box to tick, but hes suggested hed already
sent the PDD form with hand-written changes and the information he was enclosing with theCYD form was correct. And he thought as it was all in one envelope it would be considered
together.
CIDRA says that A failure by a consumer to comply with the insurers request to confirm or
amend particulars previously given is capable of being a misrepresentation for the purposes
of this Act (S2(3)). But the PDD didnt reflect Mr Ls medical history. So, I think if Mr L did
just sign and return the CYD form and ticked the yes box in isolation, he did fail to comply
with L&Gs request to confirm or amend particulars it was saying had been previously given.
This is because I think the point of this part of the Act  although relevant to information
provided for checking at renewal of a general insurance policy  also applies to the situation
in this case. That is, Mr L was being asked to check whether the particulars L&G held about
him as per the PDD and from his application were correct. And  if they werent  he was
being asked to amend them. So  I think in signing the CYD form having ticked yes to
confirm all the details were correct, he failed to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation. As I think a reasonable consumer would have realised the need to tick
no and detail the amendments needed on the form.
I appreciate Mr L has said hed previously returned the PDD with hand-written amendments.
And that he returned a fresh medical questionnaire as a result of this. But I dont think
theres sufficient evidence for me to conclude on the balance of probabilities that he did send
the amended PDD form back. I say this because if he was going to do this, I think hed have
returned it along with the CYD form, as it was clear this is exactly what this form was for. I
appreciate Mr L recalls things differently, but I have to decide what I think is more likely than
not.
I am not persuaded Mr L failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation
when he returned the Declaration of Health Form. I say this, as while this was asking him to
confirm nothing had changed since his previous application, as far as I can see nothing had
changed other than minor changes to the dosage of one of his medications. I appreciate the
information Mr L had been provided with on the PDD was wrong, but his health hadnt
changed and he wasnt sent a further copy of the PDD with the Declaration Form. So I dont
think confirming his health hadnt changed can be classed as a misrepresentation under
CIDRA.
I appreciate L&G has also provided a midi screening report produced following the nurses
examination and discussion with Mr L and this shows negative answers to the questions
about alcohol dependency and mental health. Mr L has argued he didnt sign this and a
hand-writing expert he has employed has suggested the signature on it was not his 
handwritten signature. And Mr L has also pointed out that the date he gave up drinking 
alcohol on this report is clearly wrong due to an error made by the nurse.
L&G has now told me it understands the nurse completed the report on a tablet and Mr L
would have signed it on the tablet. And I note the hand-writing expert has only suggested the
signature is not one Mr L made with pen and paper. So this does leave open the possibility
that Mr L signed the tablet. Although, hes actually said the nurse took notes and completed
the questionnaire later, which I also think is possible. But it is obviously difficult to know, as
its not been possible to ask the nurse concerned. And  even if we could  shed be unlikely
to remember.
But while, its not clear when this report was actually produced and how Mr Ls signature got
on it, the fact the nurse completed the answers about alcohol dependency and mental health
as negative, does in my opinion, support the view that Mr L answered these questions
negatively originally and then failed to take reasonable care when he confirmed the answers
on the PDD were right on signing and returning the CYD. Although, it does seem the nurse
did muddle up the dates when Mr L gave up smoking and alcohol. But I dont think this initself undermines the whole report. And if Mr L had answered the questions asked by the
nurse correctly or at least explained his history of alcohol dependency and mental illness, it
would mean not only that L&G did mislay two medical questionnaires and an amended PDD,
it would also mean the nurse got the answers Mr L had given wrong to the same set of
questions. And this seems highly unlikely to me.
As I think Mr L or his IFA on his behalf failed to take reasonable care not to make
misrepresentations when answering the questions Mr was asked about medical history
originally and again when he confirmed the information on the PDD was correct, I need to
consider whether without these misrepresentations L&G would not have entered into the
contract (policy) with Mr L at all. Or whether it would have done so, but on different terms. If
this is the case it means that Mr Ls misrepresentations were qualifying ones under CIDRA.
Mr L has provided detailed submissions on why he thinks L&G offered the terms they did.
And L&G has explained how the terms it offered came about. 
Ive also considered the underwriting evidence L&G has provided to show it wouldnt have 
offered cover to Mr L at all if it had been aware of his issues with mental health and his 
previous problems with alcohol dependency. Ive also queried this with L&G, as it seemed at 
one point it was suggesting it was a combination of these two things that would have made 
the risk unacceptable to L&G. And then at another point it was suggesting the previous 
alcohol dependency alone would have been enough for it to decline. Having done this, Im 
satisfied that if Mr L had provided the correct answers to the questions about his previous 
problems with alcohol and his mental health issues L&G wouldnt have offered him the 
policy.
This means I think his misrepresentations, as set out above, were qualifying
misrepresentations under CIDRA and whether they were at least careless, L&G was entitled
to avoid Mr Ls policy. This is because the remedy for a careless qualifying
misrepresentation is avoidance, provided L&G can show they would not have offered the
policy at all, which I think they have.
I have also considered in some detail Mr Ls argument that L&G accessed the information he
provided when he submitted his previous applications and would have known about his
health issues. But I dont think L&G did check the health information Mr L had provided on
previous applications at the time he applied for his policy in 2014. It has confirmed it only did
this when he made his claim on his policy in 2019. And Im satisfied this is how L&G was
aware of certain things after Mr L made his claim and that it wasnt aware of them prior to
this.
L&G has explained how the Life Assured History Check it carried out in 2014 as part of the
application process only returned a record of Mr Ls lapsed application from 2012, which was
at ordinary rates. It did not return the declined 2010 application. L&G has now explained that
the Life Assured History Check should have returned this application, but didnt because it
was incorrectly marked as cancelled, as opposed to declined. And Im satisfied with its
explanation on this point. However, I dont think L&G was obliged to check previous
applications because  as per CIDRA  it was entitled to expect Mr L to take reasonable
care not to make a misrepresentation. So the fact it didnt check Mr Ls 2010 application in
2014 does not alter my view on L&Gs entitlement under CIDRA to avoid Mr Ls policy.
L&G has explained the reason it offered revised terms in October 2014 was because the
waist size recorded in Mr Ls application was different to the waist size recorded by the nurse
in her report. Its said that as a result of this it applied a rating of +25%. And its said it
always refused to offer waiver of premium in this sort of situation and this was detailed in its
offer letter of 31 October 2014, which Ive seen. So, Im satisfied that the reason L&G offered
revised terms was the information contained in the nurses report.Ive noted Mr Ls suggestion that when considering his Subject Access Request L&Gs
reference to awaiting permission to release certain documents could be to his GP records
from 2014. But L&G has confirmed their case handler was referring to documentation within
a specialists report, which he couldnt be sure Mr L had seen. And he was waiting for
permission to release this. Im satisfied this was the case.
Mr L thinks that L&G had access to his medical records when considering his 2014
application. And he thinks the reference to a family history of IHD in the early notes on L&Gs
system when considering his claim show this. Hes pointed out that the entry mentioning his
father had IHD didnt appear in his medical records until 2013. And at the point its noted on
L&Gs notes on his claim, its said they didnt have any medical information on him apart
from what they obtained when he applied for a policy in 2010. However, L&G has explained
that IHD is used as an umbrella term when a customer has answered yes to the question
on an application about a family history of heart attacks, angina, strokes and diabetes. And
its provided a statement from a senior underwriter confirming this, along with extracts from
its underwriting guide and the records on another case showing it is used in this way. And
L&G has explained that it noted IHD when it was investigating Mr Ls claim early in 2019
because hed answered yes to this question in his 2010 application. And L&G had
accessed his 2010 application at this point. Ive seen a copy of the 2010 application and I
can see Mr L did indeed answer yes to the question about a family history of heart attacks,
angina, stroke and diabetes. So, Im satisfied that this is why there is a reference to Mr Ls
family history of IHD in L&Gs notes on his claim in January 2019.
In summary, a great deal of evidence has been provided by Mr L in support of his argument
that he didnt fail to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation or
misrepresentations about his medical history. And to back up his view that L&G did have all
of the information it should have had about his previous health issues. But, overall Im
satisfied L&G has provided enough evidence and explanation to show it is more likely than
not that Mr L and/or his IFA on his behalf made qualifying misrepresentations and that L&G
was entitled to avoid his policy and refuse his claim as a result of this.
And theres nothing in the ABI Code of Practice Ive referred to above, that alters my view
that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for me to allow L&Gs avoidance of
Mr Ls policy and rejection of his claim to stand.
L&G has said it doesnt have any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Although, it has provided some more evidence at my request, which I 
have commented on below. 
Mr L has responded and provided the following concerns and/or comments:
Whether in considering the balance of probabilities enough weight has been given to the 
inconsistencies in the story put forward by L&G.
There are gaps in the documentary record on both sides, including critical underwriting 
documents that L&G must have had because they were provided along with documents 
they retained. And hes suggested the absence of documentation should fall more 
heavily against a major financial institution. 
He has shown in his email of 14 June 2021 to us that L&G has not retained 
documentation it had back in 2014. In light of this, my provisional decision makes 
insufficient allowance for the fact that other key documentation is missing from L&Gs 
files. L&Gs explanation of its reference to the hand-off process as meaning the fully 
completed application was submitted to them electronically, cannot remotely be 
considered as a credible explanation of why their representative used the term handed-
off. 
Mr L has since provided evidence to show the hand-off process did exist at L&G before 
2019. I have not detailed it all here, but Ive considered it and asked L&G to comment on 
it. And Ive addressed the issue fully below. However, one point of note that I think I 
should mention here is that Mr L believes L&G was unable to collect a clients medical 
information using its computer system when an application was handed-off. So the only 
method available was using a paper questionnaire and he could not possibly have input 
electronic answers. 
I said the hand-off process only came in in November 2019, but then later referred to the 
fact the application was handed-off. 
The question of whether there was a medical questionnaire separate and distinct from 
the on-line submission has not been answered satisfactorily or at all. The fact his IFA 
said he wouldnt have sent Mr L a medical questionnaire has no bearing on whether L&G 
sent one to Mr L. 
If one of my provisional findings is that an application form had been submitted showing 
excellent health, then why did L&G want a nurses report before proceeding?
I do not seem to have asked of L&G how it was able to uncover Mr Ls 2010 application 
when faced with a claim, but not in their Life Assured History Check in 2014. 
There is no attempt on my part to assess what L&Gs own records show regarding the 
Life Assured History Check. Mr L thinks the only sensible explanation for L&Gs 
comment in its notes  LAHC Check no action taken await evidence  is that it had 
viewed his previous applications and decided it could take action, but would not do so 
pending evidence. The only conceivable action they could have taken was declining the 
application. But my view that L&G only found his 2012 application is not necessarily 
reconcilable with this comment. The reference shows there were potential red flags in 
his information, which prompted L&G to engage in actions that would not have been 
necessary had they been presented with a clean set of answers. 
L&G has been permitted to say a lot about when their process changed, but very little 
about the processes that were actually in place in 2014. This leaves open the possibility 
that something went wrong in their processes, which he has simply been unable to 
identify. And a fair assessment of his complaint would require a full and frank explanation 
of what L&G did in 2014. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr L concerns about what actually did happen in 2014 and I have addressed 
this further below. But, I think it is important to say at the start of this section that I cannot 
know for sure what actually happened and do have to base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. Mr L doesnt think I have placed enough weight on the inconsistencies put 
forward by L&G. But, while I accept some things L&G has said do raise questions about 
exactly how its application process worked in 2014, Im satisfied I do have sufficient 
evidence to conclude it is more likely than not that the reason it didnt have Mr Ls correct medical history is because it was not provided with it at this time. 
I appreciate Mr L has said there are gaps in the documentary evidence on both sides. But I 
dont think L&G has lost two medical questionnaires and an amended PDD. There is no 
record in L&Gs correspondence log of it receiving paper medical questionnaires completed 
by Mr L. Mr L has said he sent an amended PDD with other paperwork he returned, but, 
other than his testimony, there is  in my opinion  no credible evidence that he sent this. 
And it still seems odd to me that he would send a CYD form specifically designed to show 
his details were incorrect, confirming they were actually correct, separately to an amended 
PDD. 
L&G has now clarified that the electronic hand-off process was in place before 2019, as Mr L 
has suggested. And its apologised for any confusion it caused by suggesting otherwise. Its 
explained it was first introduced in September 2016 and it has provided evidence that has 
satisfied me that this was the case. It has explained there were some improvements made in 
November 2019 around the agent handing-off to the customer. And the evidence its 
provided suggests this was the case. 
L&G has also explained that there has always been the options for IFAs to print off paper 
data capture forms for their clients to complete. But these have never been sent out by L&G. 
If the agent did get their client to complete one it was still up to the IFA to fill in the answers 
to the relevant questions electronically. And I accept what L&G has said on this point, as Ive 
not seen anything in its process or correspondence logs to suggest it sent out paper 
questionnaires to Mr L. I know Mr L still thinks the reference in the email from his IFA to the 
fact that L&G would send him a medical questionnaire shows this must have been the case. 
But I dont agree with him on this point. We will never know what his IFA was referring to, but 
I still think it is more likely than not that he was referring to the PDD that L&G sent to Mr L to 
check. I say this because it would have contained all the answers Mr L provided to medical 
questions and it was clearly part of the standard process the IFA would have been used to. 
I referred in my provisional decision to Mr Ls IFA not recalling a process where he sent a 
medical questionnaire to a client. And I accept this isnt really relevant as Mr L has never 
suggested he did. But it remains my view that L&G didnt send medical questionnaires to Mr 
L for the reasons Ive already explained. 
L&G has provided what I consider to be a very good explanation of the process for Mr Ls 
application in 2014. Its explained there were two options for its submission open to Mr Ls 
IFA  interactive and standard. Interactive meant the client had to be there and to answer 
the questions or be on the telephone. And the IFA would have put the answers straight in the 
system. And it has shown from its system that Mr Ls application was submitted in this way. 
So  while there may have only been a short time between the IFA accessing L&Gs system 
and putting in Mr Ls basic details and the detail of his GP, it remains my view that the IFA 
did answer the medical questions electronically. Its seems highly unlikely that he got Mr L to 
complete a data capture form, as he could not have then used the interactive process for 
submission and would instead have used the standard process, which allowed him to enter 
the system and transfer the answers from a data capture form. In any event  Mr L has not 
suggested he did do this.  
The reference to Standard by L&G is in relation to the service levels provided to the IFA and 
the system notes refer to the service type as standard. And Im satisfied with this 
explanation, as the system notes and the process documents Ive seen from L&G show Mr 
Ls application was submitted as Source System OLP  Interactive and Service Type  
Standard. Therefore, Im satisfied L&G has submitted enough evidence for me to understand and 
consider the process Mr Ls IFA followed to submit his application in 2014. I think it was an 
electronic process with Mr Ls IFA submitting the answers to the medical questions on-line. It 
seems to me that this was most likely to be in conversation with Mr L. But  however it 
happened  it was Mr L and his IFAs responsibility to make sure the answers provided were 
correct. Unfortunately the evidence suggests they were not.  
Im satisfied the reason L&G needed a nurses report before proceeding was the size of the 
sum insured Mr L wanted. And I think it was this evidence L&G was waiting for when it 
recorded on its system after the Life Assured History Check (LAHC) that it was taking no 
action pending evidence. 
I do not think L&G picked up Mr Ls 2010 application when it did the LAHC, as its process 
did not pick up cancelled applications and this application had been incorrectly marked as 
cancelled. Its claims process  on the other hand  did pick up cancelled applications. Its a 
different process, so I think this is understandable. It is unfortunate L&G didnt pick up Mr Ls 
2010 application. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, L&G wasnt obliged to check 
Mr Ls previous applications. It was entitled to expect him to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when he submitted his application via his IFA in 2014. 
I have not gone into evidence L&G has provided to show that it would not have offered Mr L 
a policy in 2014 if the medical questions on his application had been answered correctly. 
This is because I covered this point in my provisional decision and my view remains the 
same, ie L&G has provided sufficient evidence to show this.  
In summary, if I were to accept Mr Ls evidence that he did provide the correct medical 
information, Id have to accept that his IFA followed a different process to the evidence 
provided by L&G, ie a process that appears not to have actually existed. Id also have to 
accept that, as a result of this, Mr L submitted two medical questionnaires  sent to him to 
complete by L&G, when there is no record on L&Gs correspondence log of these being 
sent. Id also have to accept Mr L returned both of these and L&G received them without 
making a record of this and then mislaid them both. And  as well as this  Id need to 
accept L&G mislaid the amended PDD that Mr L has said he sent. Id also have to accept 
that, in addition to all this, the nurse who came to see Mr L forgot that hed mentioned 
significant issues and completed a report without getting Mr L to sign it electronically. 
When I weigh all this up, along with what I consider to be the compelling evidence provided 
by L&G that none of these things could actually have happened, it leads me to the 
conclusion that for some reason L&G simply werent provided with the correct answers to 
medical questions about Mr Ls history of alcohol dependency, mental health issues and 
sight problems, amongst other things. And that if it had been provided with the correct 
answers it wouldnt have offered Mr L a policy at all. 
Therefore, it remains my view, based on the large amount of evidence Ive considered, that 
L&G was entitled to avoid Mr Ls policy as a result of a careless qualifying misrepresentation 
and refuse his claim as a result of this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 Robert Short
Ombudsman