DRN-2352208
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy about the level of customer service provided by British Gas Insurance 
Limited (British Gas) under her HomeCare Insurance policy.
What happened
A heat detector in Mrs Rs home activated and couldnt be switched off. When Mrs R 
contacted British Gas, she was told that her policy had been cancelled because British Gas 
had been unable to collect recent direct debits. British Gas reinstated the policy and 
arranged for an engineer to visit the same day. Mrs R was given a timescale for the visit, but 
late afternoon an engineer contacted her and told her he wouldnt be at her home until later 
in the evening. When the engineer attended, he told her that he had only been assigned the 
job very late that day.
Mrs R complained to British Gas. She said that British Gas should have told her that it hadnt 
been able to collect payments and so had cancelled the policy. She also had to wait at home 
all day but the engineer had only been assigned the job after 5.30pm.
When British Gas replied, it said that it could have done more to inform Mrs R that the 
payments werent being collected, but that it was because Mrs R had cancelled her direct 
debit in error. It said that when Mrs R asked for an electrician to deal with the heat detector 
issue, it reinstated the policy and arranged for an engineer to attend the same day.
Mrs R complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
British Gas had dealt with the issues reasonably in the circumstances.
As Mrs R did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mrs R has raised a number of complaints with British Gas. My decision is 
limited to the circumstances of the complaint outlined here. Having looked at what 
happened, although Im aware that this will disappoint Mrs R, I dont uphold the complaint. I 
will explain why.
Mrs Rs policy was cancelled by British Gas following two missed direct debit payments. Mrs 
R has said that it is likely she cancelled her direct debit by mistake. Ive read British Gas 
cancellation policy. The policy wording said cancelling the direct debit didnt mean that the 
policyholder had cancelled the agreement with British Gas. It said that British Gas would 
write to the policyholder to try and collect the money owed and that if the policyholder didnt 
reply or the money wasnt paid, British Gas would then cancel the policy.
British Gas didnt seem to dispute that it hadnt followed its own policy. So, Ive thought 
about what difference this made. The first time Mrs R was aware that her policy had been 
cancelled was when she phoned British Gas to arrange for an engineer to visit. British Gas 
realised that the policy had been cancelled, set it up again and arranged for an engineer to 
visit the same day. So, during the phone call, Mrs R was restored to the position that she 
should have been in and was able to book an engineer. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
However, Mrs R said that this required a phone call of nearly two hours to resolve the 
issues. I havent been able to listen to the phone call, as British Gas is no longer able to 
access it.  Mrs R has said that there were at least three issues addressed during the call. 
These were the cancelled policy, the engineers visit and raising a complaint. I would expect 
it to take some time to deal with the combination of those issue. Mrs R also said that the call 
handler put her on hold a few times to speak to her manager. I can understand that if this 
happened multiple times that it would be frustrating and seen as an unnecessary delay. But I 
dont think, in itself, it is unreasonable for someone to seek advice from a manager, including 
on more than one occasion.
Im aware that when Mrs R complained to this service, she explained that there were issues 
with registering her complaint during that phone call and afterwards. However, complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity, so Im unable to comment on this aspect.
Mrs R is also concerned that she was given an all day appointment, but received a phone 
call from British Gas at about 5.30pm to tell her that the electrician would be delayed until 
after 6pm. The engineer who then visited told her that he had only been assigned the job at 
5.35pm, despite being available and in the same area for much of the morning. As the 
engineer had then been sent to appointments much further away in the afternoon, he was 
only able to get to Mrs Rs home at 7.30pm.
I asked British Gas for more information on this. British Gas said it wasnt now able to look at 
all of the details of this case. However, its records indicated that the job was allocated to an 
engineer during the day, but that he sent it back late afternoon. British Gas said this was 
most likely because some of the engineers other jobs took longer than expected. It said this 
would explain why it was allocated to a different engineer later that day and why the 
engineer might have told Mrs R that he had only just been assigned the job.
Mrs R was provided with the explanation given by British Gas for the time it took for the 
engineer to visit her. She told this service that throughout the day she received messages 
saying that the job was on track and wasnt informed of any problems or potential delays. I 
dont think that this contradicts what British Gas has said. Until the engineer handed the job 
back, I think it was reasonable for British Gas to expect that the engineer was able to attend 
within the timescales specified. However, when this was no longer possible, British Gas 
phoned Mrs R and told her this and arranged for another engineer to visit the same day.
Mrs R also said that her job had been booked as an emergency and she thought it was 
unlikely that the engineer would have disregarded an urgent job in favour of completing a 
routine one. I can understand Mrs Rs view on this, but this is speculation on her part about 
the urgency of other jobs that the first engineer was dealing with and the priority that each 
should be given.
Mrs R also said she didnt think British Gas explanation about the engineer was plausible 
and provided details of another time when there had been issues with a British Gas engineer 
visiting. Ive noted the other appointment that Mrs R referred to, but it doesnt form part of 
this complaint.
Mrs R said that she was given an all-day slot and that the engineer would visit between 8am 
and 6pm.  Ive read the policy terms and conditions and these said:Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
My understanding of what happened in this case is that British Gas contacted Mrs R when it 
became clear that an engineer wouldnt be able to visit by 6pm and assigned another 
engineer. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances and that British Gas also acted in 
line with its terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman