DRN-2142816
The complaint
Mr W has complained about ReAssure Limited. Hes unhappy about the value of his pension 
plan and he says that ReAssure failed to send him annual statements as it should have 
done.
What happened
Mr W has a unit-linked personal pension plan with ReAssure (originally Windsor Life). Hes 
unhappy that the value decreased form £879 in 1997 to less than £300. Hes said that 
ReAssure didnt send him statements between 1998 and 2015 and so he was unable to 
monitor the value of the funds, and had it done so he would have made changes to the 
investment and so the value wouldnt be this low.
Mr W wants ReAssure to compensate him for his pension losses. 
Mr W stopped making payments to this pension in 1993 and in that same year he moved 
home. He says that he told ReAssure of his change in address, but he didnt receive his 
annual statements after that. After a few years he contacted them again and his statements 
from 1994 up to 1997 were resent to him. The 1997 statement gave the pension fund value 
as £879.36 which was an increase on the 1994 value of around £40.
Mr W says that he didnt receive further statements but he didnt feel any reason for concern 
as the value seemed to be increasing and so he didnt chase this up again. Then in 2016 he 
received a statement which gave a fund value of £149. In 2019 whilst sorting through his 
papers he noticed that the latest value was £274.10. He contacted ReAssure and was told 
that the lower value was because the fund had performed poorly. He made a complaint but 
ReAssure explained that the fund value had diminished over the years due to performance 
and the impact of charges.
Mr W referred his complaint to this service. ReAssure said that it had no record of any 
change in address before 2016. It said post had been sent to Mr Ws original address and it 
was only in 2016 that this was returned by the post office. It traced Mr W straightaway and 
redirected post after that.
The investigator decided that the complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr W had moved 
in 1993 but the statement he had from 1997 showed the earlier address. The investigator felt 
that this meant it was likely that the 1997 statement had been forwarded to Mr W after he 
made further contact with ReAssure but his address hadnt been changed in the records at 
that point as it should have been.
The investigator felt that ReAssure had failed to update its records properly and so it should 
pay Mr W £250 for the trouble and upset caused. But he wasnt satisfied that Mr W would 
have acted any differently or made any changes to the fund investment and so he didnt 
propose any further award.
ReAssure didnt agree. It said it had no record of a change of address from Mr W before 
2016 and so it had done nothing wrong.
Mr W said the investigators assumptions about what he may or may not have done were 
wrong. He had been kept in the dark for 20 years and would have acted differently had he 
known the true value of the pension.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator and with his reasoning. I note that ReAssure says that it has no 
record of a change of address for Mr W before its correspondence was returned by the post 
office. But Im satisfied, on balance of probability, that Mr W did inform them of a change of 
address at some point, either in 1993, in 1997 or both.
I make this finding on the basis that Mr W is in possession of the 1997 statement which is 
addressed to his previous address. I think its likely that he contacted ReAssure around that 
time and that this statement was forwarded to him. I think this is the most likely explanation 
for his being in possession of it, and so I think its likely that his address was not properly 
updated in ReAssures records at that point. Statements were then only sent to the new 
address from 2016, after Reassure traced him when his post was returned undelivered by 
the post office.
However, like the investigator, Im not satisfied that Mr W would have acted differently if he 
had received the missing statements. I base this conclusion on the fact that he did nothing in 
response to the 2016 statement when the value had decreased to £149. Im not satisfied that 
was because he was, or ought to have been, waiting on the outcome of the complaint. The 
complaint came later. I think the impact of the charges would have been apparent to him 
from the 2016 statement if not from the earlier ones. 
Also, I dont think it would be fair to make any award for any financial loss in these 
circumstances when Mr W didnt follow up on the non-receipt of statements between 1997 
and 2016. Although ReAssure ought to have been sending statements to him, I think it would 
be reasonable to expect that Mr W could have taken some action to remedy the situation 
over that period.  
So, for these reasons I agree with the investigator and I uphold this complaint in part.
Putting things right
ReAssure must pay Mr W £250. I make no other award.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman