DRN-3087403
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited handled a claim on his
commercial vehicle insurance policy.  
What happened
Haven were contacted by a third party insurer about an incident. It was told Mr A had driven
into the back of another car and caused damage. Because of this Haven contacted Mr A to
ask him about the incident. Mr A denied any involvement and said it wasnt him.
Haven looked into the claim and noticed the third party had misquoted the registration
number of Mr As car and provided a policy number which wasnt Havens. Because of this it
defended the claim and closed it on its records. Over the next several months the claim
reopened and closed a couple of times. And because this claim had been reopened it
caused Mr As no claims discount (NCD) to be stepped back from five years to three years.
By this point Mr A had taken out insurance elsewhere. Mr As new insurer discovered the
claim and reduced NCD and cancelled his new policy.
Mr A wasnt happy about this and complained to Haven. He said he hadnt been told about
the claim being reopened and because of this hed had his new policy cancelled. Haven
looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the claim was still under investigation
and because of this it didnt think it was responsible for the impact that had on Mr As new
insurance. Mr A didnt agree and referred his complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 September 2021 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy, like most policies we see, give Haven the right to
take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as it sees fit. That means it might make a
decision Mr A disagrees with. But wed look at whether Haven made a reasonable decision
in doing this based on the evidence it had and the circumstances of the case.
Mr As policy ran from 1 August 2019 until 31 July 2020. Haven received notification of this
incident at the beginning of March 2020. It spoke with Mr A in March 2020 and got his side of
the story. From Havens notes I can see it determined at the beginning of May 2020 that it
was a case of mistaken identity, as the policy number wasnt one of Havens and the vehicle
registration was one digit different. Because of this it closed the claim on 17 May 2020.
The claim then reopened at the beginning of July, as the third party got in touch again, and
closed a few days later. The claim then reopened again in late July as the third party contact
Haven again, and then wasnt closed until 25 February 2021. Haven also confirmed when
the complaint came to our service the claim was reopened again and once weve finished
our investigation the claim will close as notification only.
Given Haven knew in May 2020 that this claim had been incorrectly directed to them, Im not
sure why it kept reopening the claim and reducing Mr As NCD. Haven also didnt let Mr A
know this, and because of that hes had his new policy cancelled. Im also surprised that
Haven has reopened the claim again just because a complaint has come to us. I understand
it may need to reopen its file but to reopen a whole claim and have that recorded on external
databases isnt fair and reasonable as there isnt a claim or incident on Mr As policy. Im
therefore not satisfied Haven have dealt with this claim in a fair and reasonable way.
If Haven had dealt with the claim correctly it should have made the third party insurer aware
of the error without reopening Mr As claim and reducing his NCD. Also, as it was a case of
mistaken identity there isnt any incident to record on any external databases, so Haven
should correct this and either remove the incident from all external databases or mark it as
mistaken identity. This needs to be done in line with the databases rules it recorded the
claim on, for this type of scenario.
As Haven didnt handle Mr As claim in a fair and reasonable way, hes had a policy
cancelled and had difficulty getting insurance elsewhere. To put this right Haven also needs
to provide a letter explaining its error so Mr A can provide this to the insurer who cancelled
his policy and ask them to review how the cancellation is recorded. Haven should also pay
Mr A £500 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience its caused him in having to do
this and the difficulty hes had in getting insurance.
Mr A responded and accepted my provisional decision but didnt have any further comments. 
Haven didnt respond by the deadline set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further comments to my provisional decision, I see no reason 
to depart from it.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to:
Remove this incident from all external databases or mark it as a mistaken identity, in 
line with the databases rules for this type of scenario
Write a letter for Mr A, explaining it made an error in re-opening his claim, reducing 
his NCD and recording it on external databases
Pay Mr A £500 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman