DRN-2204828
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc was misrepresented to him.
What happened
Mr S bought a used car on 30 August 2017. He says that he asked about the cars history 
and was told by the salesman at the dealershp that it was an ex-corporate vehicle and had 
been driven by management. After the vehicle log book arrived in the post, he discovered 
that it was an ex-hire car. Mr S says he would never have bought the car if he had known the 
history and he complains that the car was misrepresented to him. Mr S said that he wanted 
compensation of £1000 for this error.
Santander rejected Mr Ss complaint and said that the car was sold at the correct price for its 
age, mileage and condition and there are no faults with the car. It said there was no legal 
requirement for the dealership to tell Mr S about the history of the car and it would have 
been evident from the V5 document at the point of sale.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and initially thought that there had been a 
misrepresentation and Santander should pay Mr S £250 to cover the inconvenience caused. 
Santander didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. During the 
time that the complaint was waiting to be allocated to an ombudsman another investigator 
reviewed the complaint and thought that Santander hadnt done anything wrong. They 
thought that Mr S would have gone ahead and bought the car anyway and he wasnt out of 
pocket as a result of the misrepresentation as he paid the correct price for the car. Mr S 
didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act sets out that the provider of credit is equally 
responsible with the supplier of the goods if they are not of satisfactory quality or there has 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. So, in these circumstances, because Mr S 
acquired his car with credit provided by Santander, it can be required to put matters right for 
Mr S.
Mr S says there was a misrepresentation that the car was ex-corporate and he wasnt told it 
was ex-hire. I cant say what was discussed and there isnt anything in the documents to 
confirm what was agreed. Where the evidence is contradictory or incomplete as some of it 
here, I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words what is more 
likely than not to have happened. 
As you would expect when buying a car, I think it is likely that Mr S discussed a number of 
things with the salesman. The car was competitively priced, and I think it is likely that Mr S 
asked the reason for that. I have no reason to doubt that Mr S was told that the car had been 
driven by corporate management. I think it is likely Mr S asked a number of other questions 
at the time relating to the car and its features and performance.
It is unusual for one thing to be the reason for deciding to buy, or not to buy a particular car. 
Some aspects are more important than others to consumers and the decision to purchase is 
likely to be a combination of factors such as price, mileage, features and performance.
The car that Mr S bought was free from faults and the price he paid was fair, taking into 
account the age, mileage and condition of the car. He did know that the car had been driven 
by more than one person during its previous ownership albeit he thought it was a pool car 
for a company instead of a hire car. 
When Mr S found out about the true history of the car a few weeks later when the log book 
arrived, he explained he contacted the dealership who said that the cooling off period had 
expired. But Mr S didnt take his complaint further at that stage and didnt take steps to get 
rid of the car. In fact, Mr S still has the car and wants compensation. I think that if knowing 
the car had been an ex-hire would have prevented him from going ahead with the purchase, 
it is likely that he would not have wanted to keep the car once he found out.     
I agree with the investigator that reviewed this complaint that any misrepresentation about 
the history of the car wasnt the main reason that Mr S decided to buy it and I think it is 
unlikely that even if the true history of the car had been disclosed, he would have refused to 
buy the car. The car was competitively priced and has no faults or extra wear and tear 
relating to its use as a hire car, so I dont think that Mr S has lost out. In these circumstances 
I cant say that the misrepresentation was material and so I cant ask Santander to do 
anything.
I know that my decision will be a disappointment to Mr S, and I want to assure him that I 
dont doubt what he says happened but based on the information I have I cant say that this 
was a material misrepresentation in the context of this purchase.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
12 January 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman