DRN-2935053
The complaint
Mr B has complained Bamboo Limited is holding him liable for a personal loan which he 
didnt apply for.
What happened
In early 2020 Mr B was approached by someone he barely knew. He was asked if hed allow 
them to use his current account to receive money and then transfer this elsewhere. Mr B 
was reassured by the people he was discussing this with that this was all legal and hed be 
paid about £200 for allowing this. 
After providing his bank details, the fraudsters managed to get him to share a one-time 
password and got him to delete his mobile banking app, as well as getting access to Mr Bs 
debit card. As Mr B didnt have access to his account, he wasnt sure what was going on.
Things escalated and Mr B was approached later on again. He felt intimidated but then went 
on to withdraw money from his account which these people said was theirs. He followed 
their instructions telling branch staff why he wanted to withdraw the cash. Three withdrawals 
were made of £2,000, £8,000 and £2,000. The latter two at different branch counters.
Mr B then thought this was all over until he started getting a number of letters to his home 
address. These included letters about the set-up of personal loans but Mr B knew hed not 
applied for any loans.
Mr B told Bamboo hed not applied for the loan nor benefitted from what had happened. 
Bamboo wanted confirmation from Mr Bs bank that he was a victim of fraud. As the funds 
werent repaid, they continued to expect him to repay the loan.
Mr B brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator confirmed to Bamboo some of the detail that had happened to Mr B. 
Bamboo offered to waive any interest payable on the loan. However they still felt he was 
complicit.
Our investigator confirmed an ombudsman had upheld another of Mr Bs complaints where 
the circumstances were similar. Bamboo continued to believe as Mr B had provided some of 
his account details to the fraudsters, they could continue to ask him to repay what was owed.
Our investigator told them she didnt agree. She confirmed to Bamboo she was upholding 
the complaint and asked them to write off the debt. 
Bamboo continued to disagree. They felt Mr B must have been complicit and were 
concerned that our service was rewarding Mr B by treating him as a victim of crime.
Mr Bs complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and considered all of the evidence  including Bamboos response of 
20 July  I explain below why Ive come to the conclusion I have.
Theres only one real issue at the heart of this complaint. If Mr B didnt complete the loan 
application or benefit from the money, can Bamboo still hold him liable? 
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence from Bamboo including details of the 
loan application which was completed online. Weve also got evidence from Mr B including 
what was reported to the police after he allowed someone to use his account. 
I dont believe theres any dispute Mr B didnt take out the loan. Bamboo has given us no 
argument why Mr B would have done this  unless he was involved with the attempted fraud 
and Ive seen no evidence this is the case. I believe the limited physical evidence matches 
what Mr B has told us.
Based on this, Im satisfied Mr B didnt apply for the loan.
Ive seen from both Mr Bs evidence and Bamboos that £3,500 was paid into his current 
account as a result of the loan application. This coincides with the time Mr B was 
approached by fraudsters to go to bank branches and remove the money that had been 
credited. Three payments of £2,000, £8,000 and £2,000 were removed. 
Mr B also used his debit card to buy foreign exchange on behalf of the people who told him 
theyd paid some money into his account. 
Mr B has told us he felt threatened and anxious throughout what was happening. I can well 
understand that to have been the case.
However Bamboo has stated Mr B allowed another party to use his account details and was 
therefore party to a fraud. 
I dont dispute part of Bamboos argument that Mr B allowed someone else to use his current 
account and they made him carry out disputed transactions. But my decision isnt around 
those transactions although Ive taken them into account. Ive concentrated on the loan 
application and the legal basis Bamboo has to hold Mr B liable. This is limited if they have no 
contractual agreement with him. So for example their view Mr B acted in a grossly negligent 
manner doesnt apply when a consumer credit agreement is the subject of dispute.
I dont think theres any question Mr B regrets the decision he made to get involved with 
fraudsters but neither do I believe Mr B was ever fully aware of what was going on.
Bamboo has alleged Mr B didnt raise the complaint swiftly and he should have noticed what 
was going on in his account. From what Ive seen the fraudsters took steps to limit Mr Bs 
continued access to his account. But as soon as letters started to arrive at his home, Mr B 
took action to sort out what had happened.
Ive considered Bamboo argument that Mr B was party to the fraud but I dont think he 
knowingly was. From what Ive seen of the evidence, Mr B had no awareness that two loans 
had been taken out in his name. I can also see that he contacted the police to let them know 
what had happened.
Although Mr B may have been paid in return for allowing someone to us his account, Ive not seen enough evidence to show Mr B benefitted from the credit agreement that was this 
personal loan. 
Overall and on balance I believe Mr B didnt apply for this loan. As Bamboo has no 
contractual agreement with him and I cant see that Mr B benefitted from the funds, they 
cant ask him to repay the money or lodge any data about this agreement on his credit 
record. 
Putting things right
On the basis Ive decided Mr B didnt take out this loan, or benefit from it, I will be asking 
Bamboo to clear any information from Mr Bs credit record about this loan, cancel the loan 
and stop asking him to repay any debt. 
Bamboo has concerns that our service is rewarding Mr B for being a victim of fraud. I dont 
agree. In any case Mr B repaid an amount of money the fraudsters left in his account to his 
bank.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Bamboo Limited to:
Cancel the loan in Mr Bs name; 
Stop pursuing Mr B for repayment of a loan as he didnt apply for it; and
Remove any information from his credit record relating to this loan, including any 
default data.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman