DRN-3437962
The complaint
Mrs B (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) provided her with a credit facility she couldnt afford to repay.
 What happened
Mrs B approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in November 2017. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mrs B was not advanced a payday loan.
 
Mrs B was initially given a facility with a £350 limit in November 2017. Her limit was 
increased on a further eight occasions with her final increase taking Mrs Bs credit limit to 
£670 in April 2019.
 
SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman Service an outstanding balance remains and the 
balance on the facility as of September 2021 was £806.13.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Bs complaint and she thought SNC shouldnt have 
granted the facility. The read only bank statements that SNC had access to showed that 
Mrs B had a significant number of outstanding high cost short-term credit loans and Mrs B 
was already making monthly repayments to a number of debt management providers. So, 
she thought Mrs B couldnt afford to take on this facility. 
Mrs Bs representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment, but no further 
comments were provided.
 
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it didnt make any points about the 
outcome that was reached. Instead, it focused on whether the Financial Ombudsman had 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint. In summary it said: 
It hasnt received proper authorisation from Mrs B to allow her representative to deal 
with the case.
SNC says that due to concerns over the representatives authorisation no valid 
complaint has ever been made which is why no final response has been issued. 
SNC therefore says it doesnt believe the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction 
because no final response has been issued and so doesnt constitute a complaint as 
laid down by the rules (DISP). 
Although Mrs Bs representative has provided a wet signature SNC doesnt have 
anything to compare it too.
The approach SNC takes to verify with a consumer is reasonable and has her 
privacy and data protection in mind.
SNC has had concerns about the authority given and this has been backed up by the 
content of a Dear CEO letter from the industry regulator.
The adjudicator responded to SNCs concerns. She explained SNC had been given more 
than eight weeks to investigate Mrs Bs complaint following the representatives complaint 
and from when we informed SNC that the complaint would be taken on and progressed. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look at this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by SNC as to why it 
considers this complaint to be outside of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. 
Ive thought carefully about what SNC has said, but like our adjudicator explained, Im not 
persuaded there is any reason why the Financial Ombudsman cant consider this complaint. 
It is disappointing that SNC has taken the stance that it has in relation to this particular 
jurisdiction issue considering that, in my view, it is patently incorrect and is therefore simply 
delaying the resolution of this complaint.
SNC has clearly had significantly longer than the eight weeks afforded to it by the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules to investigate and issue a final response to this complaint. Mrs B 
complained through her representative to SNC in December 2020 (Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me Mrs B hadnt correctly authorised the representative), the complaint was 
referred here on 1 June 2021, and the Financial Ombudsman then wrote to SNC on 
3 June 2021 explaining the complaint was now being taken forward. 
It is now nearly a year later and well over a year since the complaint was originally made, but 
the firm nonetheless disputes that it has not had the eight weeks to consider the complaint. 
This is clearly wrong in my opinion.
SNC has had more than eight weeks in which to investigate the complaint and issue a 
response. Im therefore satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction to consider 
this matter in accordance with DISP and can proceed to issue a decision on the merits of 
Mrs Bs complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Mrs B wasnt given a payday loan. Instead she was provided with a credit 
facility where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following a 
drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mrs B this facility when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules 
in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of 
the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance. 
Overall, the guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did 
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put simply, the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed 
decision on the lending.
Throughout the lifetime that Mrs B had the facility SNC maintained read-only access to her 
bank statements to allow SNC to monitor Mrs Bs finances and to allow it to carry out 
additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mrs Bs expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Mrs Bs facility was approved for £350 SNC needed to satisfy itself that 
Mrs B would be in a position to make the repayment of around £20 per month, by carrying 
out a proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mrs Bs income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to her bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being 
granted. It then used an algorithm to establish what Mrs Bs income and expenditure was, 
after completing these checks, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mrs B could afford the 
minimum repayment towards the facility.  
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of the results SNC has provided, and, I dont think these results on their own 
wouldve led SNC to either decline the application or prompt it to have carried out further 
checks into Mrs Bs situation before the facility was approved. 
However, having reviewed the bank transaction data in the 90 days leading up to the facility 
being granted, I agree with the adjudicator that based on what SNC had access to it 
shouldnt have advanced the facility.  
The facility was approved on 12 November 2017, and SNC wouldve been aware from the 
transaction data, that Mrs B had repayment plans, for at least six different credit accounts to 
four different third-party debt collection companies. An indication that Mrs B had previously 
had some significant repayment problems that she still wasnt recovered from, because 
Mrs B was making only small individual repayments to these companies totalling around 
£110 per month. 
It isnt unreasonable to conclude that if Mrs B couldve afforded more than these companies 
wouldve expected her to repay given these were outstanding debts that needed to be paid. 
On balance, Im satisfied that Mrs B couldnt afford to repay these companies any more than 
she already was. 
But this does show, that Mrs B has had previous repayment problems which I think 
continued given what else SNC was aware off at the time. 
In addition to this, SNC was aware that Mrs B was a regular user of high cost-short term 
credit in the months leading up to the facility being approved and had taken loans from at 
least four different companies. Indeed, at the end of October 2017, Mrs B had made 
repayments to two different providers to cover four different outstanding loans.  
Knowing a consumer is both making a number of repayments each month towards 
previously unpaid creditors and is regularly using high cost credit ought to have alerted SNC 
that Mrs B wasnt in a position to take on the facility in a sustainable manner. SNC had 
access to the data and shouldve realised this by the checks it carried out. So overall, the evidence of Mrs B using high cost short term loans and that she had a 
number of payment plans to debt management companies is to me, an indication of her 
having financial difficulties, and leads me to conclude that Mrs B wasnt able to afford the 
facility that SNC had advanced her. 
Im therefore upholding Mrs Bs complaint in full and I dont think SNC shouldve approved 
the facility.  
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the start of the facility.
B) Treat all payments Mrs B has made towards her account since the start of the facility 
as though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mrs B wouldve been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
to repay this. If a balance remains after this, then SNC should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs B. If SNC has previously written-off any principal, 
then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it has already 
written-off.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file 
about this facility.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint in full.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mrs B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman