DRN-3153835
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain about the service The Co-operative Bank Plc provided when they
were porting their mortgage to a new property. They want Co-op to compensate them and
reimburse the fees theyd already paid when their sale and purchase fell through. 
What happened
Mrs R and Mr R took out a mortgage with the Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) in 2017. In
2019 they took a fixed interest rate product for five years which was due to end in February
2024.
In late August 2020 they approached Co-op about porting their interest rate and borrowing
an additional amount to buy a new house. They had an advice call with Co-op on around 17
September, sent their application in by around 1 October and paid the associated fee on
around 5 October. Co-op initially told them theyd have a decision within six to eight weeks of
sending in the application and fee.
Mrs R rang Co-op for an update around six weeks later. Co-op told her then the timescales
for making a decision on the mortgage had increased to ten to twelve weeks. Mrs R was
upset she hadnt been made aware of that and let Co-op know she and Mr R were under
pressure from their buyers to complete the sale before Christmas. Co-op raised a complaint
on Mrs R and Mr Rs behalf at this time.
Co-op had arranged for the property Mrs R and Mr R were buying to be valued in early
November. The valuation was cancelled for reasons that werent clear at the time. It took
until early December for the valuation to be rescheduled but it was cancelled again. Mrs R
and Mr R found out through the surveyors that the first appointment hadnt happened
because the estate agents had told the surveyors the purchase wasnt going ahead. Mrs R
and Mr R were unhappy Co-op hadnt provided an explanation or kept them updated about
changes to the appointments.
The valuation was rearranged for mid-December although Mrs R and Mr R werent told
about the outcome until Mrs R rang Co-op for a further update on 30 December. Co-op
confirmed the valuation had been carried out and was acceptable. They said theyd issue a
decision to Mrs R and Mr R on their application within seven working days.
Mrs R and Mr Rs buyers had agreed to continue with their purchase provided it went
through early in the new year. Unfortunately, Mrs R and Mr Rs buyers pulled out when they
hadnt had confirmation of their mortgage offer within the seven working days Co-op had
indicated.
In mid-January 2021, Co-op contacted Mrs R and Mr R to tell them they couldnt process
their mortgage application because there was missing information. Mrs R was unhappy
since shed understood in December they had all they needed. She told Co-op shed
provided all the information theyd asked for early on in the application and also sent in
details of Mr Rs new job more recently. This wasnt on Co-ops file.
Since the sale and purchase had both fallen through, Mrs R agreed with Co-op their
application would be put on hold. Co-op said if she and Mr R managed to find a new
property, it would be possible for the mortgage to go ahead within six months of the advice
meeting on 17 September 2020 without them having to make a new application and pay
another fee.
As part of their complaint, Mrs R and Mr R wanted Co-op to repay the fees and costs theyd
incurred in relation to the sale and purchase which had fallen through and to compensate
them for the distress and inconvenience theyd suffered as a result of what had happened.
In their response to Mrs R and Mrs Rs complaints
Co-op explained the impact Covid-19 had had on the level of service they were able
to provide and steps theyd put in place to let their customers know how long things
would take. But they acknowledged Mrs R and Mr R had been inconvenienced and
offered them £50 compensation.
Co-op didnt uphold Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint theyd failed to return a call from 17
November on the basis theyd called back three days later.
Co-op offered Mrs R and Mr R an additional £25 for wrongly telling Mrs R at the end
of December theyd have their decision within seven working days. Co-op said they
shouldnt have given them that reassurance as there were reasons why it might not
be possible to meet that deadline.
Co-op also apologised for confusion about information they needed to complete their
consideration of the mortgage application.
Co-op didnt agree the buyers had pulled out because of their timescales and refused
to reimburse Mrs R and Mr R for the fees and costs theyd incurred.
Mrs R and Mr R werent happy with Co-ops responses to the issues theyd raised so they
brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt Co-op should pay Mrs R and Mr R additional compensation of £100 to
put things right. She didnt think it was fair to ask Co-op to reimburse the fees and other
expenses Mrs R and Mr R had incurred. She thought Mrs R and Mr R would have continued
their application with Co-op even if theyd known sooner what the timescales would be since
they were tied in to a fixed rate with them and would have incurred an early repayment
charge (ERC) if theyd moved to another lender.
Co-op accepted our investigators view, but Mrs R and Mr R didnt agree. They felt our
investigator hadnt taken all the relevant information into account or accepted some of what
theyd told her. They thought the reason their buyers had pulled out was linked to the delays
and Co-ops failure to produce a mortgage decision within seven working days of 30
December 2020 as theyd said they would.
Mrs R and Mr R said they would have considered moving to another lender and paying an
ERC if theyd known early on how long it would take to process their application. And they
thought Co-op should reimburse the fees theyd paid in relation to the sale and purchase that
had fallen through.
Our investigator didnt change her opinion. Since Mrs R and Mr R didnt accept ourinvestigators view, their complaint was passed to me to review afresh. I recently issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons Ill explain, I intend to uphold Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint. Since my
decision differs from our investigators view, I am issuing this provisional decision to give the
parties the chance to make any comments before I come to my final decision.
I may not mention in this decision everything the parties have told this service. I dont intend
to be discourteous and Id like to reassure them Ive considered everything theyve said. Ive
focused my decision on those things I consider most relevant in reaching my conclusions.
Ive thought about the service Co-op provided overall, the impact that had on Mrs R and
Mr R, and whether what happened led directly to the financial losses Mrs R and Mr R would
like Co-op to reimburse.
Before coming to that, I think its useful to summarise the key issues.
Co-ops timescales
Co-op acknowledge they initially told Mrs R and Mr R the timescale for processing their
application and giving them a decision was six to eight weeks from when theyd submitted
their application and paid their application fee. Mrs R and Mr R had paid the fee by 5
October 2020. So, they could reasonably expect theyd hear something from around the
middle of November 2020.
I can understand Mrs R was upset Co-op hadnt told her about the change in the timescales
they were working to until she rang them on 17 November. She explained then she and Mr R
were at risk of losing the moves and their buyers wanted to move in by 10 December.
Co-op have explained their timescales increased due to Covid-19 related staffing issues and
an increase in demand for mortgages because of the temporary relaxation on paying stamp
duty introduced by the government.
Co-op say theyd put a message on their phone lines to let customers know wait times would
be longer than usual. Theyd decided not to proactively contact customers to let them know
applications would take longer since it would take staff away from processing applications
and things would take longer still.
I understand Co-op took a practical operational decision about how they would organise
themselves. But it meant the service Mrs R and Mr R got was below the level they could
reasonably expect from what theyd been told at the start of their application. And I think
Co-op should have told them sooner.
I note the Co-op representative told Mrs R on the 17 November call they couldnt guarantee
the application would be done in time to meet the buyers timescales. But they said theyd let
the applications team know and that they were already half way through assessing Mrs R
and Mr Rs application.
Whilst Co-op went some way to managing Mrs Rs expectations at that stage, I think it was
reasonable for her to think twelve weeks was probably the longest the application should
take. That meant she and Mr R could reasonably expect a decision by the end of December.I acknowledge Co-ops arguments that not all parts of the application process are within their
control, such as information they need from their customers. I can see from Co-ops notes on
5 November they knew then they didnt have all the payslip information they needed for     
Mr R. I think Mrs R and Mr R could have provided the missing information if Co-op had 
asked them for it. I havent seen any evidence they mentioned this to Mrs R and Mr R before
January 2021. So, I dont think anything Mrs R and Mr R did or failed to do affected Co-ops
timescales here.
The service Co-op provided
Mrs R and Mr R complained a call theyd made to Co-op on 17 November wasnt returned.
Co-op didnt uphold that complaint point on the grounds they rang back three days later.
Given the impact of Covid-19 and the stamp duty relaxation on Co-ops work volumes, I
dont think that was unreasonable as an isolated incident. But I have to consider the service
provided overall when thinking about the impact on Mrs R and Mr R.
During November, Mrs R and Mr R were chasing Co-op about the valuation of the property
they were buying. Ill refer to that below.
Ive listened to the call Mrs R had with Co-op on 30 December 2020. They hadnt had any
updates on what was happening since 3 December. The valuation of the property Mrs R and
Mr R were buying had taken place on 14 December, but Co-op hadnt let them know the
outcome of that. Id expect Co-op to have told them once theyd got the valuation whether it
was acceptable and how their application was progressing.
Co-op confirmed to Mrs R on the 30 December call that the valuation was acceptable. And
they said theyd send a decision on their mortgage application within seven working days.
Although the Co-op representative didnt say explicitly Co-op had all the information they
needed to finalise their decision  and in January they asked for information they said was
missing  I think it was reasonable for Mrs R to think from the conversation that Co-op were
ready to give their decision within seven working days.
Mrs R made it clear to Co-op on the call how important it was for the decision to come
through. She told them, as shed done before, the buyers had wanted to complete before
Christmas. I think Co-op should have checked then if anything would hold up the decision. I
can understand when the decision didnt materialise, and Mrs R and Mr Rs buyers pulled
out, it will have been very disappointing for them. And the sellers then put their house back
on the market so the whole move was lost.
Co-ops notes suggest they started looking at Mrs R and Mr Rs application again on 5
January 2021 and had completed their review by 11 January. They still required the payslip
information theyd known was missing in November 2020. They also wanted confirmation
from his employer that Mr R was no longer furloughed. They didnt try and contact Mrs R and
Mr R about that until around 18 January 2021.
Mrs R told Co-op shed provided all the information Co-op needed early in the application
process. Mrs R explained shed got certified copies of documents confirming details of the
new job Mr R had got and had posted them to Co-op. Co-op had no record of receiving
those and said their process was to log any incoming post.
Whatever information Co-op still needed to progress the mortgage application, it was too late
to save the moves by the time Co-op contacted Mrs R. When the decision hadnt come
through within seven working days of 30 December, the buyers had pulled out. Mrs Rs
explained the buyers didnt believe Mrs R and Mr Rs application would go through given thetime it was taking.
Co-op said Mrs R and Mr R could put the application on hold for six months but if they didnt
arrange a new purchase and sale by then theyd need to make a new application and pay
another application fee. I understand Mrs R and Mr R have found a new buyer for their
property but werent ready to go ahead with another move within that time frame. For
reasons Ill explain below, I dont think its fair Mrs R and Mr R should have to pay for two
applications.
Why were the valuations delayed?
Mrs Rs told us she and Mr R arranged their own survey on the property they were buying
quite quickly but Co-op wouldnt accept the survey from another supplier. I think its fair for
Co-op to instruct their own valuers to assess their risk of lending on a property and its in line
with normal lending practice. And I accept the pressures they were working under impacted
how quickly they could arrange their valuation.
But Co-op didnt keep Mrs R and Mr R updated about what was happening. And, from what
Ive seen, Co-op didnt understand the reasons for the delays themselves fully until they
asked the surveyors after our investigator asked for an explanation.
A valuation was originally booked for 5 November. The surveyors have explained the estate
agents told them the sale of the property had fallen through and the appointment was
cancelled.
Co-op confirmed to the surveyors several days later the valuation was needed. But the
estate agents then told the surveyors the property was back on the market. So the surveyors
contacted Co-op about what to do. It took Co-op several days to get back to them. And
Mrs R and Mr R were also contacting the surveyors direct for information. Co-op confirmed
on 18 November the valuation should still go ahead.
An appointment was made for early December but, according to the surveyors, it was
delayed, first due to the valuer being unwell and then to fit in with the sellers availability, until
14 December.
I think Co-op could have responded to the surveyors more promptly when they asked what
to do. But overall the delays do seem to have been beyond their control. And its not certain
an earlier appointment could have happened given the wrong information the estate agents
were giving the surveyors. Certainly, the delays in December were due to things outside
Co-ops or the surveyors control. Co-op should, however, have let Mrs R and Mr R know
what was happening.
What was the impact on Mrs R and Mr R of the timescales and delays?
Mrs R and Mr R have told us the collapse of their sale and purchase had a significant impact
on their finances.
oThey paid an application fee to Co-op and will have to pay another one and
make a new application to move now since the hold on their previous
application has expired.
oMrs R and Mrs R paid for their own survey and the valuation carried out by
Co-ops surveyors. They also incurred solicitors fees in relation to the sale
and purchase.oAlthough they were always planning to move, they brought their move
forwards to take advantage of the stamp duty relaxation. They are no longer
eligible for stamp duty relief.
oTheyve managed to find another buyer but for a lower amount - by £3,000 -
than they had accepted from the original buyers.
Mrs R and Mr R have provided satisfactory evidence of the fees they incurred.
Mrs R and Mr R say they found the process very stressful and their mental health has been
affected by what happened. And Mrs R was due to undergo a medical procedure funded by
releasing some equity which shes now had to finance differently. This put more strain on
their finances. But she couldnt delay it any further.
Mrs R had to make many calls to Co-op to find out what was going on. The costs were
included within her monthly mobile phone tariff but she had to spend time on the phone
away from work to try and resolve things.
oWhat Ive decided
Bearing all of the above in mind, I think the service Co-op provided fell short of what Mrs R
and Mr R could reasonably expect. I therefore intend to uphold their complaint.
Ive taken into account the impact of Covid-19 and the stamp duty relaxation on the
timescales Co-op were able to work to. I understand it wasnt possible for them to work
within the six to eight weeks theyd originally told Mrs R and Mr R the process would take.
And I acknowledge things beyond Co-ops control can impact their timescales in any event.
But theres no evidence Mrs R and Mr R delayed the process.
I dont think it was fair Mrs R only found out things would take longer when she rang to find
out how the application was progressing. Co-op should have told her and Mr R sooner their
timescales had changed.
Co-op had the chance to let Mrs R know when they spoke on 17 November 2020 that
information was missing from their application, but they failed to do so. If theyd done that,
its possible the application would have gone through more quickly, although it isnt clear the
moves would have been saved as Co-op still required confirmation about Mr Rs
employment status. But it would have avoided some of the confusion and distress relating to
Mrs Rs later discussions with Co-op about the information shed provided and what was
outstanding.
Co-op failed to understand the reasons for the delays in getting the valuation or to let Mrs R
and Mr R know what was happening about that. Generally, Mrs R was having to contact 
Coop for updates more regularly than Id expect because Co-op werent providing any
information. Mrs R had let Co-op know they were under pressure from their buyers to move
things along. They needed to know what was going on so they could manage their buyers
expectations.
Mrs Rs said the buyers had agreed to delay things if completion could take place early in
the new year. Mrs R reasonably came away from the 30 December call with the impression
shed have a decision on the application within seven working days. Since that didnt come
through, the buyers pulled out and the moves fell through.
Whilst I acknowledge the pressure Co-ops staff were under too, I think they ought to have
done more to keep Mrs R and Mr R updated and managed their application more carefully,including checking the state of their application, letting them know sooner about missing
information and providing clearer information about timescales, especially at the end of
December 2020 when it was important for Mrs R and Mr R to be able to manage their
buyers expectations.
I think its fair to say, in the circumstances of this case, that the sale fell through as a result of
the time the application was taking and, specifically, the impression Co-op gave Mrs R on
the 30 December 2020 call. When the decision hadnt come through within seven working
days of that call as Co-op said it would, the buyers didnt think Mrs R and Mr R would get
their mortgage in place and pulled out. And the sellers then put their house back on the
market.
Putting things right
Ive thought about the impact the service Co-op provided overall rather than looking at
individual events as Co-op did in responding to Mrs R and Mrs Rs complaints. Thats
because those events were part of an overall process and the impact on them of the service
Co-op provided built up as time went on.
Mrs R and Mr R had to start a new mortgage application as they didnt have time to find a
new buyer to enable them to continue the existing application within the six months Co-op
allowed. I dont think Mrs R and Mr R should have to pay twice.
Co-op should reimburse the valuation fee as they will have to pay a new fee for any new
property they want to buy. I acknowledge Mrs R and Mr R paid for a more detailed survey as
well, but it was their choice to do that and I dont think its fair to ask Co-op to pay for it.
Co-op should pay the solicitors fees for the work they undertook in relation to the sale and
purchase. The fees were wasted and Mrs R and Mr R will have to pay again for any new
transactions.
Mrs R and Mr R say they were planning to move and the stamp duty incentive wasnt their
motivation, but brought the move forwards. They also say the stamp duty saving meant their
house buying budget was higher than it would have been without it. From that I think any
new property they buy is likely to be less expensive, but their overall expenditure including
stamp duty will be around the same. They may be disappointed they cant buy such an
expensive property now, but I dont think they will have suffered a financial loss as a result.
So, I dont think its fair to say Co-op should reimburse the lost stamp duty saving.
Mrs R and Mr R accepted an offer at £3,000 less than the original buyers were prepared to
pay for their property. Thats a decision theyve made. The lower price may be related to
changes in house values since Mrs R and Mrs R began the application process. If so, I dont
think that could have been a probable result of anything Co-op did wrong. And I dont think
Co-op should have to pay the difference.
In summary, I think Co-op should reimburse Mrs R and Mr R the following fees:
Application fee: £199
Valuation fee: £264
Solicitors fees: £1,731.24
I think what happened caused Mrs R and Mr R a high level of stress. Co-op provided poor
service over a period of around three months and failed to keep Mrs R and Mr R updated.
Co-op knew they were under pressure to complete the sale. Mrs Rs work was also
disrupted several times when she had to call Co-op to find out what was happening.Mrs R and Mr R lost the house they were hoping to buy and their sale. And Mrs R had to
change her arrangements for a medical procedure she was due to undergo putting their
finances under extra strain.
Bearing everything in mind, I think an award of £300, including the compensation of £75
Co-op has already paid, for the distress and inconvenience Mrs R and Mr R have suffered is
fair. So Co-op should pay them an additional £225.
I intend to direct Co-op to make these payments within 28 days of my final decision, should
Mrs R and Mr R choose to accept it. If payment isnt made within that period, Co-op should
pay simple interest on the total amount at the rate of 8% a year until payment is made.
My provisional decision
I intend to direct The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay to Mrs R and Mr R within 28 days of    
Mrs R and Mr R accepting my final decision:
(1) the fees theyve paid as follows:
a. Application fee: £199
b. Valuation fee: £264
c. Solicitors fees: £1,731.24
(2) Compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience less the £75 theyve already
paid them, that is a net amount of £225.
(3) Simple interest at the rate of 8% a year on the total amount of £2,419.24.
If Co-op consider that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
the interest, they should tell Mrs R and Mr R how much theyve taken off. They should also
give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Developments
Mrs R and Mr R are happy with the provisional decision and have no further comments to 
make. Co-op have accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has any further comments to make, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs R 
and Mr Rs complaint.  
Putting things right
I set out how I think Co-op should put things right and the reasons why in my provisional 
decision. I see no reason to change my mind about that.My final decision
I direct The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay to Mrs R and Mr R within 28 days of Mrs R and   
Mr R accepting my final decision:
(1) the fees theyve paid as follows:
a. Application fee: £199
b. Valuation fee: £264
c. Solicitors fees: £1,731.24
(2) Compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience less the £75 theyve already
paid them, that is a net amount of £225.
(3) If payment isnt made within the 28-day period, simple interest at the rate of 8% a year on 
the total amount of £2,419.24.
If The Co-operative Bank Plc consider that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from the interest, they should tell Mrs R and Mr R how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman