DRN-3371711
The complaint
Mr C complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited declined his claim on his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C was involved in an accident and he made a claim on his policy. But Watford said Mr C 
hadnt told it about after-market modifications made to his car. And so it cancelled his policy 
and declined his claim. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Watford 
had reasonably cancelled the policy. But as the claim occurred before the cancellation, she 
thought it should deal with Mr Cs claim. 
Watford replied that the policy had been cancelled because of the undisclosed modifications. 
It said it wouldnt have offered cover if it had known about them. Ans so it said it thought it 
didnt need to deal with the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Watford decided to cancel Mr Cs policy when it discovered the undisclosed modifications. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Watford thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a comparison site that his car had no modifications. And Ive 
looked at the question he was asked when he completed the application and agree he failed 
to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked if the car had been modified and he 
was given examples of what this might mean.. And I think this was a clear question asked by 
Watford through the comparison site Mr C used. Mr C said the car hadnt been modified. 
I can see that Watfords engineer found that Mr Cs car had darkened rear light clusters and 
dark tinted rear windows. Mr C thought the tinted windows were standard for his cars model. 
But Watfords engineer has confirmed that Mr Cs car didnt have tinted windows as part of 
the models specification. He said the rear windows on Mr Cs car had after-market dark 
tinting. So Im satisfied that the car had modifications made after-market. 
Mr C said he bought the car as it was sold, and he wasnt aware that it had been modified. 
But I think, from the file, that Mr C was aware that the rear light clusters had been darkened. 
And I think he should reasonably have been aware that the dark tinted rear windows 
wouldnt be standard. Or, if he was unsure, he could have checked with Watford. And I think 
this means Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said his car had no modifications. 
Watford has provided evidence from its underwriting guide to show that it wouldnt have 
offered cover if Mr C had answered the question about modifications correctly. This means I 
am satisfied Mr Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA. And I think Mr Cs 
misrepresentation was careless because Ive not seen evidence that it was deliberate or 
reckless. 
But Watford didnt choose the remedy available to it under CIDRA on this occasion, that is, 
to avoid the policy. Instead, it decided to cancel it. I can see that in Mr Cs policy booklet, on 
page 32 under Cancellations, Watford explains that it may cancel the policy:
Where You have carelessly misrepresented relevant information which, if correctly 
represented at the time of application, would have caused Us to decline Your application for 
cover.
And so as Mr C misrepresented the modifications, I think Watford was entitled by the policy 
terms and conditions to cancel the policy. 
Watfords decision to cancel rather than avoid Mr Cs policy was an advantage for Mr C as 
he doesnt have to declare the avoidance, though he must declare the cancellation if asked 
by future insurers. 
But its also a major benefit for Mr C in that Watford still has to deal with the claim. This is 
because avoidance annuls the policy back to the start as if it never existed and so there is 
no cover in place for the claim. Whereas cancellation ends the policy from the moment it is 
applied and not retrospectively. And so any claim that pre-dates cancellation falls to be dealt 
with by Watford. So I think Watford has unfairly decided not to indemnify Mr C for the claim 
because of the undisclosed modifications. 
Mr C said he was still paying his monthly premium. I think the policy is an annual contract 
although Mr C may be paying for it by monthly instalments. And, as the policy has been 
used, I think Mr C needs to pay his premiums for the year. Mr C said Watford was asking for 
an incorrect amount. But I cant consider that here as Mr C needs to firstly raise this with 
Watford to give it a chance to respond. 
Putting things right
I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to consider Mr Cs claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of his policy. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman