DRN-3147930
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the repairs that have been carried out to his laptop by U K Insurance 
Limited (UKI) under his home contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H took out home contents insurance with UKI. This included accidental damage.
In November 2020 Mr H accidentally spilt water on to his laptop and made a claim on his 
policy. UKIs repairers examined the laptop and removed the water ingress. They then sent it 
to a manufacturer authorised repairer for the replacement parts to be fitted. The ports on 
both sides of the laptop were replaced, along with the top case. The laptop was tested by 
both the manufacturer approved repairer and UKIs repairer and returned to Mr H.
Approximately three weeks later the laptop suffered what Mr H thinks was a power surge 
and It would no longer charge. Other items plugged into the laptop at the time were also 
damaged, including a mixer unit. Mr H thought that the repairs had not been completed 
properly and this had caused the power surge.
The laptop was returned to UKIs repairer under the repairs warranty. They found it to be 
working, and charging, normally. There said there was no damage to the ports. They 
plugged in other devices and said these worked fine. They tested Mr Hs charger and found 
it to have an intermittent fault. They said the original repairs had been carried out correctly.
Mr H was not happy with this and complained to UKI. UKI made enquiries with both their 
own repairer and the manufacturer authorised repairer and said that they did not think the 
original repairs were the cause of the power surge. They said that if there had been a power 
surge from the laptop large enough to damage other items, they would expect to see some 
damage to the ports. They said that they would review their decision if Mr H was able to 
provide any further evidence.
Mr H was not happy with this and brought his complaint to this service. Whilst our 
investigator was looking into the complaint, Mr H reported further problems with his laptop 
and it was returned to UKIs repairer along with other items which Mr H said were damaged. 
UKIs repairer found damage to one of the laptops USB ports and said this had not been 
present when the laptop was returned to Mr H previously. They also said that one of the 
other items, the HDD Caddy, was faulty but that this was not part of the original claim or 
repair work. They thought that the further damage to the laptop may well have been caused 
by the faulty HDD Caddy.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
concluded that there was no evidence that the repairs caused further damage to the laptop 
or other items. 
Mr H then provided a report from his own repairer who had examined his mixer unit. They 
concluded that the damage to the mixer unit was likely to have been caused by an external 
power surge from the USB port on the laptop. Mr H also provided a report from a 
manufacturer authorised repairer who had originally attempted to repair the laptop after the 
water damage. They thought that repair was not the best option as any repairs were likely to 
be temporary only. 
UKI said that these reports didnt change their decision. Our investigator considered the 
additional information but didnt think that there was any new evidence that the repairs 
caused further damage. Mr H asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Hs frustration that he has had a series of problems with his laptop and other 
devices since November 2020. However, in order for me to uphold his complaint I need to be 
satisfied that the original repairs were at fault. 
Mr H has produced two reports which he says supports his view that the repairs were faulty. 
The first is from the manufacturer authorised repairer who initially looked at Mr Hs laptop 
following the water damage. They said that they had attempted repairs but that these had 
not been successful. They thought that the main logic board was failing and was causing the 
USB-C boards to blow. They suggested that any repairs done were only likely to be 
temporary as water damage to other components is easily missed. 
They dont mention, however, carrying out any drying process. They may have done so but 
there is no evidence of this. I can see from UKIs notes that during their repair the laptop was 
put through an ultra-sonic bath procedure to remove any water ingress. I also note that the 
laptop was then repaired by UKIs manufacturer authorised repairer without any of the 
problems experienced by Mr Hs repairer, such as the USB-C boards blowing. The USB 
ports were successfully replaced by UKI and found to be working correctly. Whilst I take on 
board the concerns expressed by Mr Hs manufacturer authorised repairer, they didnt 
complete the repairs and havent examined the laptop since. I dont think that their report 
shows that the subsequent repairs were faulty.
Ive also seen the report from Mr Hs repairer who looked at his mixer unit which Mr H says 
was damaged due to the faulty repairs. The repairer cannot say exactly what caused the 
damage to the mixer unit, but thinks the likely cause was an external power surge coming 
from the laptop USB port. However, even if this is correct, it doesnt necessarily follow that 
the repairs were to blame. Mr Hs repairer didnt examine the laptop, and therefore cant 
comment on the repairs. UKI say that had there been a power surge they would have 
expected to see that the ports were damaged, and they werent. Again, I dont think this is 
enough to show that the repairs were not carried out correctly.
I have seen UKIs notes which show their repairer examined the laptop and found no further 
faults. Mr H had reported that the laptop was no longer charging. The repairer tested the 
laptop with their own charger, and plugged in other devices, and found everything to be 
working correctly. They found no damage to the ports. The only fault they found was with Mr 
Hs charger which worked intermittently. 
UKI also examined the laptop again when it was returned a second time. On this occasion 
there was damage to one port but UKI thought that this had been caused by a faulty device, 
an HDD caddy, being used. They found no evidence of the repairs being the cause.
As Mr H is suggesting that the repairs are faulty, the onus is on him to show this. On balance 
I havent seen enough evidence to satisfy me that this is the case as Mr Hs reports dont address the issue of the repairs or whether they were responsible for the further damage. I 
dont therefore think that UKI have done anything wrong. I know that this was not the 
outcome Mr H was hoping for, but I hope that he understands my reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman