DRN-3018970
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Soteria Insurance Limiteds (Soteria) decision to decline part of her 
car insurance claim and about their handling of the claim. 
  
What happened
Mrs Hs car was damaged as a result of vandalism, she says the panoramic roof of her car 
was struck by an object as she was driving. Mrs H reported this to Soteria who arranged for 
her car to be collected and taken to a garage. The garage repaired the windscreen but called 
Mrs H to say that an engineer had noticed signs of wear on the runners of the cassette that 
holds the panoramic roof in place. They said they would need to replace the whole cassette 
and this would cost Mrs H £1,700. Mrs H refused to pay for this and agreed for the glass to 
be replaced but not to disconnect the sunroof. The car was then returned to Mrs H but the 
driver refused to hand over the keys until Mrs H paid the excess of £150. Mrs H paid this but 
then noticed that, although the front windscreen had been replaced, it was poorly fitted into 
the seal. And, the sun-visor would no longer close. So, Mrs H had to return her car to the 
garage for these to be fixed. 
Mrs H complained about Soterias decision not to cover all damage and the handling of her 
claim. Soteria responded and explained Mrs Hs policy covers damage caused by vandalism 
so they arranged for her car to be taken to one of their approved repairers to repair the hole 
which had been made in the glass. They said, when Mrs Hs car was inspected, the engineer 
found a further problem with the sunroof cassette but determined this damage was down to 
general wear and tear and couldnt have been caused by vandalism. Soteria explained Mrs 
Hs policy doesnt cover wear and tear so they arent able to cover this part of the damage. 
And, Mrs H had been given the option of paying extra separately to have this repaired, or 
just having the glass repaired but not being able to open the sunroof  and Mrs H chose the 
latter option.  
Soteria also said they had told Mrs H about the £150 excess when she reported the incident 
to them. Soteria also explained the repairer couldnt say for certain whether the problem with 
the seal was caused by its age. They said, although the garage dont believe it was caused 
by their work, they have agreed to replace it as a gesture of goodwill. Soteria also referred to 
Mrs Hs concern about the visor being left open. They apologised this had caused Mrs H 
concern and confirmed the garage had now closed this. Soteria didnt uphold the complaint.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs H. She thought Soteria hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining to cover part of the damage. She thought there had been errors in dealing with the 
repairs so she recommended Soteria pay compensation of £50 to Mrs H. 
Soteria agreed but Mrs H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partly uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Not covering all damage under the policy 
My starting point is Mrs Hs car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and its not disputed that shes covered for vandalism. Under the heading What is 
not covered, the policy says: Loss of or damage to the Insured Car caused from 
deterioration, wear and tear or depreciation. So, Im satisfied that Soteria shouldve looked 
into Mrs Hs claim because she reported the damage was caused by vandalism. Ive then 
looked at whether Soterias decision to not cover the full damage, and their reason for doing 
so, is fair and reasonable.    
 
Insurers often appoint engineers experienced in this type of work to look at the damage, and 
thats what Soteria did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Soteria to rely on 
the engineers comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. I can see from the 
engineers report, they say, on inspection of the sunroof cassette, the runners for the rear 
glass sunroof were found to be cracked and the left hand right rear glass slide blocks had 
locating lugs which return the rear glass to the closed position. The engineer notes The 
damage noted on the sunroof cassette is not as a result of the front glass impact damage. 
The cassette damage is wear and tear and would not be covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
An engineer is qualified to comment on damage to a car so it was reasonable for Soteria to 
take into account the engineers findings to assist their decision on whether to settle this part 
of the damage. The report from the engineer shows they inspected Mrs Hs car and 
assessed which parts of the damage were caused by the incident and which werent. I think 
the information the engineer considered is relevant to carry out an assessment and to then 
form an opinion. So, taking this into account, I cant say Soteria have acted unfairly in relying 
on the engineers findings to decline cover for the damage to the sunroof cassette. 
I understand Mrs H feels an assessor shouldve come out to inspect her car prior to it being 
taken away for repairs. That didnt happen here but I dont think thats unreasonable. Soteria 
had agreed to look into the claim and I cant see there was any dispute on the circumstances 
which led to the damage. So, I cant see any reason why an assessor shouldve carried out 
an inspection of the car at Mrs Hs home rather than at the garage. 
Mrs H believes the car shouldve been written off given the cost of repairs. Its general 
industry practice that an insurer will consider writing off a vehicle if the repairs cost around 
60-70% of the market value. The decision to write-off a car has to be reasonable based on 
the cost of the repairs versus the market value. In this case, I can see the engineer 
assessed the market value of Mrs Hs car at £3,060. The cost of the repairs was £1,291.96 
which represents 42% of the value of the car. I can see the estimate for repairing the sunroof 
cassette is £1,676.58 and, had this been covered, then the total repair costs wouldve been 
97%. But that isnt the case here as Soteria didnt cover the damage to the sunroof cassette 
so I think their decision not to write off the car is reasonable. 
Policy excess  
 I note Mrs H says she felt she was held to ransom when her car was returned but the driver 
refused to hand over her keys until she paid her excess. The policy describes the excess as 
the amount of money Mrs H must pay towards the cost of a claim  and this is noted as 
£150. Ive also listened to the call where Mrs H reports the incident to Soteria and the agent 
explains the excess of £150 will apply. The agent also says once the works all been done 
on the car, youd pay your excess to the garage. Later in the call, Mrs H clarifies her 
understanding of the position and says the garage will come and collect her car, they will 
take the car and repair it, and then she pays the excess of £150. The agent then says Yes, 
you pay that directly to the garage once the works all been done.
I understand Mrs H was left upset at being told she would need to pay the excess to get her 
car back but I cant say Soteria have acted unreasonably here. The policy documents and 
the agent on the call do make it clear that the excess is payable once the work has been 
carried out. And, the garage do then ask for the excess to be paid when they complete the 
work which was authorised by Soteria. So, I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
The seal and sun-visor
I note Mrs H is concerned her car was returned even though she says the garage didnt 
complete the work properly. Mrs H says on inspection of the front windscreen, she noticed 
there were gaps between the glass and seal. And, the sun-visor was stuck in an open 
position and wouldnt close. Mrs H says her son wont travel in the car with the sun-visor 
open and she wasnt told at any point that the sun-visor would be unusable. Mrs H therefore 
had to return the car to the garage to fix these issues. 
I can see Soteria did resolve these issues by arranging for the seal to be replaced and 
closing the sun-visor. I can see our investigator said, if the seal wasnt in good condition  
due to its age  then it wouldve been reasonable for Soteria to replace this at the time. And, 
there wasnt any agreement about the sun-visor being left open. These issues meant Mrs H 
had to return her car for these to be fixed. I can see our investigator recommended Soteria 
pay £50 compensation. Soteria agreed with the view. 
Given this part of the complaint isnt in dispute, I only need to decide on a fair and 
reasonable level of compensation. I think its right that Soteria should pay compensation for 
the trouble and inconvenience to Mrs H in having to return the car after thinking everything 
was completed. Soteria do then arrange for these issues to be fixed and let Mrs H know 
theyve arranged this the same day she raises her concern. So I cant say theres any 
ongoing impact or that Mrs H was left worried about whether Soteria would resolve this for 
her. That said, it did cause trouble and inconvenience in having to return her car so I think 
£50 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Soteria have acted unreasonably in not ensuring all repairs were 
carried out fully which meant Mrs H had to return her car for two issues to be fixed. So, I 
think Soteria should pay Mrs H compensation of £50. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Soteria Insurance Limited should pay 
compensation of £50 to Mrs H.  
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman