DRN-3165236
The complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) refused to refund the £4,100 
she lost when she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
In March 2019, Ms M made a £4,100 transfer from her Barclays Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) using her online banking facility. She thought she was making the 
payment to a holding company to facilitate the purchase a car, but later found out shed 
been the victim of a scam and had actually sent her money to a fraudster.
Ms M told Barclays what had happened and asked it to refund the money. But the bank 
didnt think it was liable for her loss. However, it was able to recover £10.64 from the 
beneficiary bank. Unhappy with this, Ms M raised a complaint with Barclays. She was 
also concerned with the steps it took to contact the beneficiary bank, after shed made it 
aware of the scam.
Barclays said:
Ms M willingly made the payment and so it wasnt responsible for her loss.
It did everything it was supposed to do after being made aware Ms M had been 
the victim of a scam. This included contacting the beneficiary bank in good time 
to see if could recover any of her money. But only £10.64 remained.
The £4,100 payment was picked up by its fraud detection system. Because of 
this, it contacted Ms M before the payment was released and made her aware of 
potential scams. But Ms M still wanted to go ahead with the payment.
Ms M remained unhappy and referred a complaint to this service. But our investigator 
didnt think Barclays should have reasonably been expected to prevent the fraud. Ms M 
didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans review and decision. Prior to this final 
decision, I issued a provisional decision to the parties in which I said that I intended to 
uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ms M agreed with this, although Barclays didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said: 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of their account. And Ive taken that into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider NatWest should, fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including money laundering, the financing of terrorism, 
and fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Ms M when she made the transfer using its online banking platform, or whether it 
shouldve done something more.
The disputed payment and Ms Ms interaction with Barclays
Its not in dispute that Ms M authorised the transfer, even though she had fallen victim to 
a scam. She intended to send the money to the account details she had been provided 
and as Ive already set out, Barclays had an obligation to follow her instructions. But I 
think as a matter of good practice Barclays should also have been on the lookout for 
unusual and out of character transactions.
With that in mind, Im pleased to see that Barclays did pick up on the transaction Ms M 
was attempting to make. The £4,100 payment attempt triggered its fraud detection 
system as it was an unusual transaction based on her usual ISA activity. It sent Ms M a 
text and she then called the bank and confirmed the payment was one that she was 
trying to process to purchase a car.
During this call she said:
She only ever transferred money between her ISA and her current account. But 
this time she wanted to make the payment directly. The payment was to a 
holding company for a car she was buying.
She hadnt received the car yet. But once the company received the money, it 
would ship the car over.
She hadnt seen the car in person. Her partner had looked into it and there was 
a 5- day turnaround where she can accept or reject the car after it had been 
delivered. If rejected she can receive a refund. Ms M said it looked legitimate.
The company she was paying was based in England.
The advisor at Barclays said she had come across similar scenarios where they had 
turned out to be a scam. But after advising Ms M of this, and after explaining that if this 
did turn out to be a scam, it would be very difficult for Barclays to recover the money for her, Ms M was still satisfied that she wanted to go ahead. As a result, the advisor at 
Barclays removed the temporary restriction that had been placed on the payment and 
Ms Ms online banking facility, and the money was promptly released to the intended 
beneficiary (the scammer).
Once Ms M had confirmed that was a genuine payment I can see, to an extent, why the 
bank allowed the payment to be made. But, I dont think the Barclays advisor went far 
enough to warn Ms M of the risk she was taking by making a £4,100 to a holding 
company for a car shed never seen before. The Barclays advisor said shed seen 
similar scenarios in the past that had turned out to be a scam, but didnt elaborate on 
this. I accept that people use shipping companies to buy and sell vehicles, but this is 
also a common scam, and the circumstances relevant to Ms M shouldve raised alarm 
bells. I think this was an opportunity for the Barclays advisor to question Ms M further 
than she did during the call.
Im satisfied that this type of scam  an advanced payment scam  was well-known to 
banks at the time Ms M made this payment. In my judgment, Barclays should have done 
more here. In my judgment the advisor should have asked more probing questions such 
as whether she had purchased a car using this process before, how she was satisfied 
that the payment details were for the genuine holding company, and what checks she 
had done to satisfy herself that the transaction was genuine.
Ive thought carefully about whether Barclays asking Ms M these kind of questions 
wouldve made a difference in this case. Having done so, its my belief that had Barclays 
asked proportionate questions and given Ms M a detailed warning about advance 
payment scams, she wouldnt have made the payment.
Had the Barclays advisor questioned Ms M further, I dont think she wouldve gone 
ahead with the payment. Ms M has said that that the bank flagging the transaction as 
suspicious raised alarm bells, and her partner called two days after it was processed as 
he was very concerned they had been the victim of a scam. At the time, Barclays 
advised them to wait another few days to see if the car arrived, and if it didnt, to call 
back and raise the matter as a scam. This call shows that Ms M and her partner had a 
level of doubt about the purchase, and on balance, I think this level of doubt wouldve 
been greater had the Barclays advisor gone further with her questioning during the call 
before the payment was released  and in educating Ms M about how these kind of 
scams work.
Recovering Ms Ms money
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 say a payment service provider, in this case 
Barclays, should notify receiving banks about potential fraud immediately. Ms M has 
raised concerns that she called Barclays two days after the payment was made and was 
told to wait another three days to see if the car arrived. When it did not, she called the 
bank again and it agreed to treat the matter as fraud. It was at this point it made contact 
with the beneficiary bank in an attempt to recover any remaining funds for Ms M.
Ms M feels the bank shouldve taken action straight away, and shouldnt have told her to 
wait a further three days to see if the car arrived. I agree with Ms M that the bank gave 
poor advice here, and I can see why she feels the bank couldve prevented some of her 
loss if it had contacted the beneficiary bank sooner than it did.
Our investigator has obtained evidence from the beneficiary bank to show that even if 
Barclays had taken action on the second day, unfortunately this wouldnt have made any 
difference to the outcome, as almost all of the money had been removed from the beneficiary bank by this time. Its a common tactic for those engaging in fraudulent 
activity to remove money from the receiving account as quickly as possible, before the 
victim of fraud realises what has happened. And, it seems that by the time Barclays 
contacted the beneficiary bank, only £10.64 of Ms Ms money remained.
I have also considered whether Ms M should bear some responsibility for her loss. 
However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the payment, she 
was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what she was doing  she 
thought she was making a legitimate payment to a genuine business to facilitate the 
purchase of a car. I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, 
Ms M was the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. Barclays was the 
professional in financial matters; Ms M was a layperson.
However, taking all the circumstances into account, whilst I think Barclays wouldnt have 
been able to recover any of Ms Ms money if it had taken action on the second day, Im 
persuaded that Barclays didnt do enough to protect Ms M and that had it done so, her 
loss wouldve been avoided. So I am satisfied that Barclays should fairly and reasonably 
reimburse Ms M for the loss suffered without any reduction, together with interest at the 
rate of her ISA to compensate her for being deprived of the funds.
In response to my provisional decision, Ms M agreed, but explained that shed actually 
called Barclays the same day as the payment was made to express her concerns, rather 
than two days later as Id noted.
Barclays disagreed, and said in summary:
It feels its advisor used relevant and appropriate questions around both the 
company and the account Ms M was paying.
Its advisor used probing questions around the purpose of the payment to ensure 
Ms M had researched the beneficiary and was happy for the payment to be 
released.
Ms M explained her partner had researched the business and felt it was 
legitimate, and the bank trusted her word. Ms M was happy to go ahead with 
the payment despite warnings given.
Ms M had multiple opportunities after her conversation with the bank and the 
warnings it provided to conduct her own research into the company and payment, 
but she was happy to solely rely on her partners findings.
Ive thought carefully about Barclays response. I appreciate its comments that its advisor 
did ask questions about both the company and the account Ms M was paying. I noted in 
my provisional decision that the Barclays advisor said shed seen similar scenarios in
the past that had turned out to be a scam  but I think she shouldve elaborated on this, 
and gone that step further to explain how exactly advanced payment scams work.
After all, such scams were well-known to banks at the time. And Barclays were the 
expert here, not Ms M (or her partner who carried out the research). Barclays have 
pointed out that Ms M was satisfied that the company and purchase were genuine based 
on her partners research and was happy to go ahead with the payment as a result. But, 
I think Ms Mwouldve taken more notice of Barclays had it explained that fraudsters often pose as the 
genuine seller of a vehicle, commonly pretending to use the services of a holding 
company as a transport method, to trick innocent victims into parting with their money. 
The scenario Ms M was presenting to the Barclays advisor had common characteristics 
of such scam, including the fact that Ms M was making the payment to a personal, and 
not a business account. I dont think the questions that the Barclays advisor asked, or 
the warning she gave, were enough to cause Ms M to take a step back and carry out 
further research as Barclays suggests. But if the advisor had gone that step further, 
which I think wouldve been appropriate, Im persuaded that it wouldve caused Ms M to 
pause on the payment. I believe in these circumstances she would have consulted with 
her partner about the information Barclays had given about this type of scam, and 
ultimately prevented her from going ahead with the purchase.
So, having considered all of the circumstances, I dont think my provisional findings 
need to change. And I adopt them in full in this final decision. I therefore think that 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably reimburse Ms M for the loss suffered, together 
with interest at the rate of her ISA to compensate her for being deprived of the funds.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require that Barclays Bank UK PLC:
Returns the £4,100 to Ms M (minus the £10.64 that its already recovered from 
the beneficiary bank)
Pay interest at the rate of her ISA account, from when the disputed payment 
was made, to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman
