DRN-1306077
 
The complaint
Miss R says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss R bought the policy in 2001, in connection with a store card she'd taken out in 1998. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Miss R says she didnt know the PPI had been added to her account, and that she 
wouldnt have agreed to buy it. She also disputes that the policy was sold over the 
phone. Ive noted everything Miss R has said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be 
sure what was discussed between Miss R and the sales person when the policy was 
sold. Im also mindful that these events happened many years ago, and that exact 
recollections of what happened can fade over time. But AXA has provided evidence 
to show that the PPI was sold a few years after the store card was taken out. This 
suggests to me that it was sold over the phone. And from what we know about 
AXA's phone sales process at the time, it's likely that the business would've made it 
clear to Miss R that she had a choice about buying the policy. So without anything 
else to support what Miss R has told me, I don't think it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to say that AXA didn't give her a choice about buying the PPI.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss R so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about any employer benefits Miss R might 
have been entitled to. Miss R had to decide for herself whether the PPI was 
something that would be useful to her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Miss R would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman