DRN-3794717
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
delayed in dealing with their claim under their Landlord Buildings policy for storm damage to 
their let property. Although the claim was mainly dealt with by loss adjusters, for 
convenience Ill refer to Chaucer throughout
What happened
On 20 February 2022 Mr and Mrs D reported a claim to Chaucer. During a storm the flat roof 
of part of their let property had blown off, and the subsequent rain coming in had caused 
considerable internal damage. Mr and Mrs D were able to get a temporary repair carried out 
but this took time to arrange because of the presence of high winds. The tenants had to 
leave as the property was uninhabitable. Chaucer arranged for a site visit which took place 
on 15 March. A scope of works and estimate were drawn up for Chaucers approval. This 
wasnt given until 10 May, and the external repairs werent given the final go-ahead until 
30 May 2022.
The external repairs were completed around 25 July 2022. However there were then further 
delays in getting the internal repairs under way. The loss adjusters had a system outage in 
August 2022 which caused delays in progressing matters. Then a different contractor had to 
be brought in to do the internal repairs, because of the lack of availability of the previously 
appointed contractor. 
Two final response letters were issued in response to Mr and Mrs Ds complaints, on 
7 July 2022 and 30 September 2022. Both responses acknowledged delays in handling the 
claim and the lack of response to Mr and Mrs D. The first response awarded £100 
compensation, the second a further £150.
Mr and Mrs D complained that because of the delays they had suffered loss of rent and had 
become liable for the council tax on the property. They also said that the carpets had been 
damaged because of the long delays in getting repairs under way. Chaucer agreed to pay 
loss of rent, but would not pay the council tax as it wasnt covered under the policy. It also 
pointed out that the policy was for buildings only and did not cover contents, so damage to 
the carpets wasnt covered.
As of 30 September, repairs were still under way. Mr and Mrs D have been advised that we 
cant consider complaints about matters beyond that date.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that the compensation 
paid was fair but that Chaucer should pay five months council tax with interest. With regard 
to the carpets she said that Chaucer should carry out a full professional clean. She further 
said that Chaucer should consider payment of electricity costs while drying the property.
Chaucer was prepared to consider the electricity costs but maintained that the policy didnt 
cover the carpets or payment of council tax.
Mr and Mrs D accepted our investigators view.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delays 
I think Chaucer was clearly responsible for some of the delays in getting both the internal 
and external repairs done. Having said that, this was a major claim with substantial damage. 
The claim wasnt approved to go ahead until 30 May, some three months after it was 
reported. And there were then further delays once the roof repairs had been completed. It 
was also admitted that the loss adjusters hadnt responded to some correspondence from 
Mr and Mrs D. Mrs D has shown us her notes of trying to chase matters up a number of 
times and I can understand if she was exasperated by the service she got from Chaucer 
and/or its loss adjusters/ contractors.
The delays at least up until the end of September 2022, amounted to around five months. 
Whilst noting that this was a let property so Mr and Mrs D didnt have to suffer living in an 
unrepaired house, they were nevertheless caused a fair amount of distress and 
inconvenience. Chaucer has awarded them a total of £250 which bearing in mind our awards 
in similar cases I think is fair and reasonable.
council tax
Chaucer objects to paying this as the policy doesnt cover out of pocket expenses. I accept 
that and normally for a let property council tax wouldnt form part of the claim. But, outside of 
the policy terns I think that Chaucer is responsible for five months delay, which means that 
Mr and Mrs D could have got tenants in paying rent and council tax five months earlier. So I 
think that, in respect of any council tax Mr and Mrs D have had to pay for the period 20 
February until 30 September Chaucer should pay five months of that, together with interest 
at 8% from the date(s) Mr and Mrs D paid that until reimbursement. Mr and Mrs D should 
produce the necessary evidence of this if they havent already done so.
carpets
This is a difficult issue, as damage to carpets would normally be covered under a contents 
policy which Mr and Mrs D havent got. But that would only cover the carpets for water 
damage from the original storm, and it might be difficult to separate that from damage 
caused by the carpets remaining damp, debris coming from the ceilings, or by contractors 
walking over the carpets and doing repairs. From the look of the photos of this the carpets 
do seem to be stained, dirty and have trodden-in bits of plaster or peeled off paint from the 
ceilings. And bearing in mind that following repairs it would be normal to have a professional 
clean of the area including carpets, I cant see why Chaucer should object to this. Its not 
being asked to replace the carpets. So I think that Chaucer should arrange a professional 
clean of the carpets once the repairs are completed. electricity costs
It would be normal for the insurer to pay for use of utilities including drying costs while 
repairs are under way. I see Chaucer has agreed to consider this so I will direct accordingly.
Putting things right
Chaucer should pay five months council tax in respect of the let property during the 
period 20 February to 30 September 2022. For the avoidance of doubt this should be 
calculated on the rates applicable from April 2022. Chaucer should add 8% interest* to 
the payments from the date(s) Mr and Mrs D paid the said council tax until 
reimbursement.
Chaucer should also pay the cost of a professional clean of the carpets when the repairs 
are completed.
Chaucer should also consider payment of the cost of the electricity used in drying the 
property.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Chaucer to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr and Mr D a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if they ask for one
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity 
Company to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman