DRN-3823127
The complaint
Mrs H says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) is responsible for her being unable to 
maximise the use of her personal tax allowance in 2021/22. She says this means she will 
incur over £2,000 tax liability more than she would otherwise have done.
Mrs H is represented by SN Financial Services Limited (SNFS).
What happened
Theres no dispute between the parties about the background to this complaint. 
On 22 March 2022, SNFS keyed a pension crystallisation transaction of £10,213 on Avivas 
adviser platform. This comprised £2,553 tax-free cash (TFC), which was paid on this date, 
and an income payment of £7,660 due to be paid on 5 April 2022.
On 28 March 2022 ongoing charges of £1.05 were deducted from Mrs Hs pension cash 
account. This meant there were insufficient funds for the income payment to be made and so 
that transaction failed.
Mrs H received the income payment on 7 April 2022, so in the 2022/23 tax-year. That meant 
shed been unable to make use of her full tax allowance for the prior year. She says she will 
pay around £2,000 more tax as a result of what happened.
SNFS says Avivas system should have notified it of the payment failure. It raised a 
complaint on Mrs Hs behalf on 8 April 2022. It thought Aviva should either contact HM 
Revenue & Customs to seek an adjustment, or compensate Mrs H for the loss.
Aviva responded to the complaint on 3 May 2022. It said it was SNFSs responsibility to have 
ensured there were sufficient funds in Mrs Hs cash account. It said its platform had worked 
as it was designed to. It didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with this response, SNFS on behalf of Mrs H, referred the case to this Service. An 
Investigator considered her complaint but didnt uphold it. She didnt think Aviva was 
responsible for her income payment being made into the wrong year. SNFS disagreed.
As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mrs Hs 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I start by observing that Aviva doesnt escape this episode with a clean bill of health.
I note the situation raised in this case by SNFS isnt an isolated incident. So, Aviva is aware 
of issues with the use of its adviser platform and approach, and has been for some time, but 
has to date not acted to avoid potential detriment to customers like Mrs H. Specifically, that 
when payment failures arise its platform doesnt notify users of such. And it doesnt present 
users with warnings and reminders to ensure payments are made smoothly.
I note the case SNFS brought here triggered various internal exchanges between different 
areas within Aviva including its business relations, technical development and complaint 
handling teams. The following exchange from the former to the latter in May 2022 is typical:
I thought it would be useful to provide some background information further to the 
escalation email below 
-The firm consider it a system issue when they key on a regular income & it fails 
entirely because of charges without any warning. 
-At the end of the tax year I asked if we would convert the payment to CHAPS to 
avoid the complaint but this request was denied because we do not consider the fault 
an AVIVA error.
-I also asked at the end of the tax year if we could report the payment as being made 
in the last tax year to solve the issue for this client & again this request was not 
supported either.
As below SN Financial believe that we have not helped them & not shared any 
responsibility for the tax year end income payment for this client.
I was also made aware at the end of the tax year that we had many requests of a similar 
nature therefore I am really disappointed that we did not have better monitoring in place 
internally to avoid these situations & avoidable complaints. 
Avivas final official position as expressed to this Service is that its system works as it is 
supposed to. But I also understand that changes have been suggested internally to improve 
its operation in the future to deal with cases like this.
Ive thought carefully about this case and, on balance, in the circumstances, Ive decided not 
to uphold it. But for the reasons identified, this is a more finely balanced judgement than 
Aviva might have anticipated. And it should reflect on what has happened here carefully.
It isnt the role of this Service to tell a firm how it should run its operations. The platform 
Aviva has put in place for use by advisers could be improved, but so far its taken a 
commercial decision not to make the changes that would ensure the problems which 
impacted on Mrs H cant happen again.
The reason Ive ultimately decided not to uphold this complaint is that the root cause of the 
problem was there being insufficient funds in Mrs Hs cash account to enable the transaction 
requested to be executed. This wasnt Avivas responsibility.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman