DRN-4404931
The complaint
Mr D says that when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited wrongly categorised his written-off car, leading to high repair costs. 
What happened
Mr Ds car was damaged in a non-fault accident in December 2022. Admirals engineer 
caried out a desktop assessment based on Mr Ds account of the damage and the images 
hed provided. The engineer said it was a repairable total loss with no structural damage, so 
Mr D was given the option of retaining the car. But when he took it to a local garage for 
repair, the garage said the rear axle carrier was damaged, and that it was a structural part. 
Mr D complained to Admiral, but it didnt change its view, so he contacted us and one of our 
investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator said Admiral should have reviewed 
the invoices from Mr Ds garage following his complaint to it, rather than just telling us later 
that it hadnt seen them. He said Mr D wouldnt have retained the car had he known there 
was structural damage to it - and that replacing the axle carrier had increased the repair 
costs significantly. He thought Admiral should refund the cost of Mr Ds repairs. 
Admiral asked one of its senior engineers to review the total loss categorisation. He looked 
at the invoices from Mr Ds garage along with the claims file. He said all the items listed on 
the invoices were non-structural, and that the car had been categorised correctly.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines:
In order to challenge Admirals engineers views successfully, Mr D needed sound 
evidence form another technical source, but he had only provided a handwritten 
invoice for a new rear axle carrier and its fitting from his garage 
An invoice for a new rear axle carrier doesnt show that its a structural part. And the 
technical advice I got was that the carrier is a non-structural part, which can be 
removed  / unbolted from a vehicles chassis 
In the light of that technical advice, which supported the view of Admirals engineers, 
I thought the details provided by Mr Ds garage werent persuasive. So I didnt think 
Mr D had shown that Admiral made an error in its total loss categorisation
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Admiral didnt do so. Mr D said 
hed provided all the information he could. He still thought the fact that hed had to pay for a 
rear back axle carrier showed that there was structural damage to his vehicle. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr D is sure there was structural damage to his car, but I can only base my 
decision on the evidence available to me. He still hasnt provided any technical evidence that 
conflicts with the views of Admiral engineers, or with the technical advice I was given. So I 
dont think theres any reason to depart from my provisional findings. For the reasons set out 
above, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ds complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman