DRN-2374031
The complaint
Mr L complains about the suitability of the advice he was given in 2015 to transfer his 
existing personal pensions into a self invested personal pension (SIPP). 
What happened
In 2014 Mr L was approached by a company and offered a free pension review. Following 
an initial conversation with that firm his details were passed to, and he then met with, Portal 
Financial Services LLP (Portal Financial). 
In March 2015 Portal Financial recommended that Mr L transfer his two existing personal 
pensions, with a value of £31,115.01, into an online SIPP wrapper with a third party provider. 
Mr Ls occupational pension scheme wasnt included in the transfer. Mr L was defined as an 
adventurous investor during the fact-finding process.
In February 2017 Portal Financial reassessed Mr Ls attitude to risk (ATR) as moderately 
adventurous. Shortly afterwards his plan was valued at £35,364.90. 
In August 2018 Mr L withdrew his tax free cash entitlement from the plan.
 
But in April 2019 Mr L, using a representative, complained. He said the advice he received in 
2015 was unsuitable, as the investments that were recommended were too high a risk. He 
said he was a medium risk investor and didnt want to invest into anything which might carry 
a significant risk of financial loss. He said there was no explanation for how his objectives 
were better served by the SIPP instead of the alternative of remaining with his existing plans.
He also complained that he wasnt told about the restricted access to his funds and didnt 
realise they might become illiquid. He wanted to be put back into the position he would be in 
now without the original advice from Portal Financial. 
Portal Financial didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had made Mr L aware of every part of 
the process and recommended more suitable and potentially better performing funds. It said 
the funds were in line with Mr Ls ATR and he had a capacity for loss which was also in line 
with the funds. And it thought the performance of its plan had been very good  so overall it 
didnt think its advice had been unsuitable.
But Mr L didnt accept that outcome and brought his complaint to us, where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. She thought the complaint should be upheld and 
recommended that Portal Financial should compare the performance of Mr Ls SIPP against 
a medium risk benchmark to see if hed suffered a financial loss. She said the costs of the 
SIPP had seen a significant reduction in the value of the funds that were invested and 
thought this extra cost wasnt in line with one of the principal reasons for transferring. 
She also believed the funds that were used were too high a risk for Mr L and beyond his 
ATR. She thought that Mr L was probably a balanced investor and should have been 
invested accordingly.
Portal Financial didnt agree. It made the following points in response:
It had fully assessed Mr Ls circumstances before it made a recommendation. It was 
noted that he wanted to consolidate his pensions, obtain higher investment 
performance, and move to a cheaper scheme  which Portal Financial thought it had 
achieved. 
It believed Mr L would be better off, in terms of charges, from switching to the SIPP. 
It said it didnt include the 1% ongoing charge into its analysis as this was an optional 
charge. 
It also believed it could improve upon the existing pension plans investment 
performance.
Under COBS rule 9.2.5 Portal Financial was entitled to rely on the answers Mr L 
gave to assess his attitude to risk (ATR).  That ATR was found to be high, which it 
noted Mr L didnt disagree with at the time of the advice. It also challenged the 
statements the investigator had made about Mr Ls circumstances leading to her 
concluding he was likely to be a balanced investor. It didnt think these statements 
were based on facts, especially considering Mr Ls large amount of savings and 
potential for an inheritance. 
In 2017 Portal Financial reviewed Mr Ls ATR and redefined him as moderately 
adventurous. It believed it accurately reassessed his ATR at various times and that 
the portfolio it recommended was suitable. 
Portal Financial didnt cold call Mr L. He was introduced to Portal Financial as he was 
looking to review his pension. In any case Portal Financial carried out due diligence 
on all introducers involved in the pension review process.
Mr Ls funds were performing well until 2018, after which they have become affected 
by the recent global pandemic. Portal Financial believed the funds it recommended 
offered the best strategy and value for Mr L despite the recent short term volatility. 
It carried out a calculation using the residual value of Mr Ls previous plans after 
deduction for tax free cash against his current SIPP. The calculation showed that 
Mr L was better off following his transfer to the SIPP. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view. She said that, although Portal 
Financial didnt include the 1% ongoing charge because it was optional, in this case Mr L 
had opted for the ongoing service so it should have been included in any comparison as it 
would have affected his final pension fund. So also thought that, while the ATR assessment 
was a good starting point in defining Mr Ls risk profile, a further conversation should have 
identified the discrepancies between the assessment and Mr Ls own personal situation.
And regarding the suggested redress calculation, the investigator said that although Portal 
Financial s calculation was based on Mr L not transferring his pension she thought it was 
more likely than not that he would have transferred. She thought that the recommendation 
wasnt suitable. 
So, as no resolution could be found the complaints been passed to me to review. 
By September 2019 Mr Ls SIPP was valued at £28,972.21  when it was invested 91% in 
equities and the remaining 9% across cash and fixed interest funds. Although a letter from 
Portal Financial in January 2020 recommended reducing the equity content to 79% in line 
with the recategorised moderately adventurous ATR.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.And having done so I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
The value of Mr Ls existing pensions when he was advised to transfer to a new SIPP was 
just over £31,000. And assuming that he would draw his tax free cash relatively soon 
afterwards  which he did in 2018 when he was 55, I would expect to see compelling 
reasons to justify the transfer of such a relatively small fund with a relatively short investment 
horizon  at least with regards to wanting to invest in higher risk funds. So Ive carefully 
considered the three reasons that Portal Financial gave for its recommendation. It said 
Mr L wanted to consolidate his pensions and that it hoped to provide better investment 
performance and to switch him to a cheaper plan.
The costs
Of Mr Ls two existing pension plans one had an annual charge of 1% of the fund 
(guaranteed not to be exceeded) and the other had a 0.75% annual charge. The second 
plan also had an early exit charge of £417 which represented around 2% of the fund. 
However, the SIPPs charges were set out as follows:
Initial adviser fee of 5% (2% of which was passed to the introducing firm).
An ongoing review/service charge of 1%.
An annual management charge of 0.5% and a £180 initial fee for the SIPP.
Fund charges of between 0.30 and 0.72% (0.30% for the main fund)
To pay the early exit charge of one of the personal pensions. 
Ive seen an illustration for the SIPP which noted that Mr L might receive a total fund value of 
£30,000 and £43,100 at mid and high growth assumptive rates. But in terms of a comparison 
with the previous pensions one of the illustrations was only to age 55 and the other simply 
noted an estimated fund of £34,850.48 at age 65.  
So I cant confirm what information Mr L was provided with in respect of giving him a full 
picture of the costs, so that he could make an informed decision about the merits of the 
transfer. I havent been provided with a clear and obvious comparison of what Mr L could 
expect from his existing pensions against the new SIPP, so I cant reasonably conclude that 
he was presented with an accurate comparison which would have put him in an informed 
position. 
I note the advisers calculation to show that Mr L was better off after transferring  but I dont 
think its entirely accurate. Some of the fund charges and AMCs arent represented as well 
as the ongoing adviser charge, which I know Portal Financial said was optional but was 
accepted by Mr L and included within the charges. And the calculation also included an 
allowance for the performance of the funds which was theoretical and could only be based 
on historical performance. So I dont think the calculation represented the complete picture 
and relied on many assumptions which I dont think it was fair to use as a basis for 
concluding that Mr L would be better off after transferring.
But, even if I am wrong in my appraisal of the various costs involved, I note that in its 
suitability report Portal Financial said that, overall this strategy may cost more than your 
existing arrangement. Whilst the intention is that this will be more than compensated for by 
the increased growth of your pension fund this cannot be guaranteed.  
So Portal Financial itself confirmed that the costs of the SIPP were higher overall than the 
existing pensions, which meant that its objective to switch Mr L to a cheaper plan wasnt 
being met and in fact he was switched to a more expensive plan. The facts of the matter are the charges that were applied, which were set out in the 
information for all the policies, needed to be compared. Looking at that information, and 
including all the relevant charges, its clear that the SIPP and the funds that were 
recommended represented a level of higher overall charges to Mr L.
Better investment performance
While Portal Financial itself accepted the SIPP costs were higher it also said that these were 
likely to be compensated for by increased growth. But with the greater costs that it needed to 
cover, as well as the initial 5% fee, it would have been difficult to maintain sufficient growth 
consistently over the 13 years or so until Mr L planned to retire, to outperform the personal 
pensions. 
As I said previously, I know the adviser produced his own ceding scheme v proposed 
provider comparison to try to demonstrate that the SIPP might produce greater returns. But 
I dont think that was information that Mr L could rely on to assume that he would be better 
off if he transferred. It wasnt possible for Portal Financial to be able to predict the future 
performance of the plan with any confidence  but the higher charges that were attached to 
the SIPP made it less likely that the SIPP funds would be able to overcome those charges 
and provide greater investment performance.
Consolidation of the plans
Portal Financial said that Mr L wanted to consolidate his existing pension plans and I accept 
that he did hold two plans when it made its recommendation. But I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr L had said that was a problem for him and that it was a major factor for him 
wanting to transfer. I dont think the paperwork and administration involved in two pensions 
would have been particularly onerous for Mr L who was only invested across three funds 
within the two pension plans.
 
And while I can understand it might have been helpful for him to consolidate his plans to 
some degree, I think its highly unlikely this would have been more important to him than 
whether he would be better off as a result of the transfer. If consolidation was in any way a 
benefit for Mr L I think it would have featured considerably lower down his list of reasons for 
transferring. 
The ATR factor
The investigator said that she thought that the funds Portal Financial recommended were too 
high a risk for Mr L and that he was a balanced investor rather than adventurous. She 
thought it should have challenged his ATR assessment as it was clear his circumstances 
didnt represent such an ATR. And Mr L has told us in his submissions that he thought he 
was a balanced investor or medium high. I asked Mr L why he didnt question Portal 
Financial s assessment if he wasnt an adventurous investor, and he explained that he didnt 
know what adventurous meant in investment terms and wasnt sure whether it was in line 
with his view of being a medium risk investor.
 
So Ive looked at the one equity fund that constituted around 85% of Mr Ls SIPP. It was 
managed on a discretionary basis and primarily invested in shares of companies with 
exposure to be developed and or emerging markets. It was rated as 6 out of 7 on a risk and 
reward profile chart. So I think it was a high risk fund. 
But that fitted in with Portal Financial s assessment of Mr L as it confirmed that adventurous 
investors typically have high levels of financial knowledge and keep up to date on financial 
issues. They will usually be experienced investors, who have used a range on (sic) investment products in the past, and who may take an active approach to managing their 
investments. 
 
But looking at Mr Ls circumstances at the time and what information was gathered within the 
fact find he didnt appear to be financially knowledgeable or an experienced investor who 
had used a range of investment products  or had actively managed his own investments. 
The only investments he held seemed to be his pensions which were held in default 
managed and with profits funds.
In addition, I think that there were some inconsistencies within the ATR assessment answers 
 particularly the question that said I feel comfortable about investing in property and I have 
little experience of investing in property which both were answered agree  which I think is 
somewhat inconsistent. Im not suggesting the answers werent recorded properly or that 
Portal Financial wasnt entitled, to some degree, to rely on the answers. But I think, 
especially when there are obvious inconsistencies and its clear a consumer might have 
misunderstood some questions, then a full and robust conversation to challenge those 
answers might be advantageous in order to ensure the ATR is accurate and best reflects a 
consumers understanding of things. 
I think if such a conversation had taken place then its more likely than not that a revised 
ATR would have been used  as I dont think Portal Financial was tied to the idea of only 
recommending an adventurous portfolio and there would have been no apparent overall 
advantage in doing so. Ive also taken into account that Portal Financial changed Mr Ls ATR 
to moderately adventurous after a reassessment  which was confirmed in a letter dated 
18 February 2017. 
As this was only two years after the original recommendation, I think its likely this was 
probably in more line with Mr Ls own definition and likely to have been an accurate 
reflection of the actual position that Mr L should have been in at the time of the original 
transfer advice. 
Ive set out my thoughts on the ATR that I believe best represented Mr L here, not simply to 
add to my overall view of whether the transfer was suitable  but also to explain why Ive 
used the benchmark below in my redress formula. Thats because Portal Financial has 
already carried out a calculation to determine whether Mr L suffered a loss in which it used 
the funds Mr L was previously invested in as a comparison. Its conclusion was that he 
hadnt suffered a financial loss as a result of the transfer. 
I think Mr L ought to be aware that there is a possibility of that being the case following the 
calculation of the redress that Ive set out below. Portal Financial has said that its funds 
performed well over the period until the recent global pandemic  which has affected all 
investments and financial markets. But regardless I think, in order to resolve this complaint, 
Portal Financial needs to carry out a calculation as set out below. And my reasons for using 
the benchmark Ive stipulated is that, having looked at the evidence from both sides, Im not 
persuaded that Mr L wouldnt have transferred or at least switched funds, if possible, within 
his existing plans.
And I think the benchmark Ive set out below, which is for someone who is willing to accept 
some investment risk, best suits Mr Ls situation and likely ATR at the time of the advice. I 
cant be sure which funds Mr L would have switched or transferred to, so Ive used a 
benchmark which I think best represents his likely approach. 
SummaryIn order to transfer this size of fund for an investment period of little more than 10 years I 
would need to see compelling reasons to do so. Based on the available evidence I havent 
seen any such compelling reasons. The charges of the new SIPP were generally higher and 
there was a 2% early exit charge on one of the existing plans. There was no guarantee of 
greater growth during the investment period  improved performance could have been 
achieved by switching into more suitable funds within the existing plans if deemed 
appropriate  particularly if it was agreed that Mr L needed to invest in more adventurous 
funds.
But ultimately, I havent been presented with any evidence to demonstrate that Mr L was 
given an adequate comparison of the schemes  which might have shown he was better of 
transferring. He wasnt therefore put into a position which would have allowed him to make a 
fully informed decision. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr L should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr L would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr L's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Portal Financial do?
To compensate Mr L fairly, Portal Financial must:
Compare the performance of Mr L's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Portal Financial should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portal Financial should pay into Mr L's pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portal Financial is unable to pay the total amount into Mr L's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr L's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr L would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal Financial deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr L how much has been taken off. Portal Financial should give 
Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
transferdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal Financial totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr L wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr L's circumstances and risk attitude.
  
My final decisionI uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr L in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman