DRN-3252623
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC contrary to their instructions allocated 
their overpayment to the wrong part of their mortgage. That caused them stress but also 
meant that they were unable to take advantage of a favourable interest rate. Mrs B and Mr S 
would like their interest rate restored to the one they originally wanted with consequent 
compensation.
What happened
The fixed interest rate product on Mrs B and Mr Ss mortgage was due to expire on 31 
October 2021, after which their interest rate would automatically move on to Barclays 
Standard Variable Rate (SVR). Mrs B contacted Barclays on 7 October 2021, and during this 
call Mrs B said that they wanted to make an overpayment of £45,280.70 to reduce their LTV 
and get a rate of interest that was available at the time of 1.36% pa. Mrs B and Mr S had a 
part interest only and part capital repayment mortgage. Mrs B thought that she should apply 
the overpayment towards the interest only part of their mortgage. But after discussing this 
with the Barclays adviser, she decided to apply the overpayment to the repayment side 
instead to lower the contractual monthly payment. 
The Barclays adviser told Mrs B the overpayment would automatically be applied to the 
repayment side in any case, but this isnt what took place nor was Mrs B told that Barclays 
timescales for applying the overpayment would be five working days. Mrs B and Mr S made 
the overpayment on 8 October 2021.
Mrs B contacted Barclays on 13 October 2021 as her mortgage consultant had discovered 
that the overpayment had been applied to the interest only side. During this call, the adviser 
explained that they would arrange for the overpayment to be applied to repayment side but 
that would take the five working days referred to above. Mrs B explained that they would like 
to complete the rate switch and the adviser explained that she could still do this this whilst 
the overpayment was being moved across.
When Mrs B phoned again on 16 October, she was told that that the overpayment was 
applied to the repayment side on 14 October 2021. But the 1.36% interest rate was no 
longer available from 15 October 2021. Mrs Bs application for the rate switch was received 
on 26 October 2021 and at the point of application the rate available was 1.55%. Mrs B and 
Mr S say that had Barclays not applied the overpayment wrongly that they would have had 
time to apply for the 1.36% rate and so are paying more interest than they should be doing. 
They are also suffering stress because of that and because of how Barclays handled their 
overpayment. Mrs B and Mr S complained to Barclays.
Barclays apologised for the delay in dealing with the complaint. It recognised that there was 
poor customer service and offered compensation of £400. It didnt feel that it should 
compensate Mrs B and Mr S for losing out on the lower rate of interest as they hadnt 
applied for it. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as Mrs 
B was told on 13 October that she could arrange the rate switch whilst waiting for the 
overpayment issue to be resolved but didnt apply before the availability of the lower rate 
expired on 15 October. Mrs B and Mr S disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive received a lot of information on this complaint which Ive considered and am able to 
come to a fair conclusion based on that. As Mrs B and Mr Ss case is set out by Mrs B and 
by two qualified mortgage consultants who have provided their views in writing I dont 
consider that it would be of assistance in coming to a decision to speak to them or Mrs B in 
person. It is in any case not our usual practice to take oral submissions at this stage. 
There are a number of questions I have to consider. Firstly, did Barclays do something 
wrong and if so what? Secondly, was that the cause of Mrs B and Mr S missing their 
preferred fixed rate. 
Its accepted that Barclays mis-allocated the overpayment which it eventually fixed. The 
question is whether the misallocation caused a delay and was that delay responsible for Mrs 
B and Mr S being unable to get their preferred interest rate.
Although the overpayment was initially wrongly allocated, after Mrs Bs intervention on 13 
October, it was properly allocated by 14 October which met Barclays service levels on the 
allocation of five working days. This is referred to by our investigator in his view:
I can see that the overpayment was applied to the repayment side on 14 October 2021. Its
important to note that this is still within the five working days timescale
Mrs B and Mr S asked me to consider a submission by a senior mortgages service manager 
who says:
We believe that delay caused by the lenders error with regard to the capital repayment, was 
paramount in the original lower interest rate being unavailable, once the lender had resolved 
the issue.
But in fact, although there was an error, there was no unreasonable delay in the allocation of 
the overpayment. I have to accept that lenders have internal timescales to complete tasks 
and Barclays appears to have achieved that. Significantly, there was no promise to Mrs B 
and Mr S that it would be done any earlier than it was. That meant that Mrs B and Mr Ss 
account was in the same position after five working days, which was the timescale Barclays 
were working to, according to their service levels, as if the payment had been allocated 
correctly. 
Barclays didnt tell Mrs B that it was going to take that time. One of the mortgage consultants 
says that if Mrs B and Mr S had known it was to take that time to allocate the overpayment, it 
may have influenced their decision and choices. But that would only make sense if they also 
knew when the window for the interest rate offer was going to close. Crucially neither the 
mortgage consultants nor Mrs B or Mr S knew when that was to be when they made the 
overpayment. So, in the absence of that information as to when the window was to close, I 
dont consider that being told the allocation of the overpayment would take five working days 
would have altered Mrs B and Mr Ss decision as they were still anxious to get the 
preferential interest rate.  
The problem as I see it was not the time that Barclays took to allocate the overpayment, but 
that Barclays changed its offers on interest rates on 15 October at short notice withdrawing the 1.36% rate. For example, if Mrs B and Mr S had made the overpayment on the 1 
October and Barclays had taken five working days, that would have posed no problem 
whatsoever for Mrs B and Mr S. The difficulty arises not because of the time involved in 
processing the payment but because of when the interest rate offer changes and not 
knowing the date of these interest rate changes in advance.  
Its accepted industry practice that interest rate offers are changed at short notice. Mrs Bs 
mortgage consultant says that its unfair that Barclays gave Mrs B and Mr S one working day 
to sort it out but he will know that the accepted commercial practice is for interest rate offers 
to change at short notice based on the commercial considerations of the lender. I appreciate 
that this must pose significant problems for mortgage consultants in giving advice not 
knowing when interest rates are going to change and but that is the industry practice.  
As set out above, I dont consider that there was unreasonable delay by Barclays in the 
allocation of the overpayment. In any case, Barclays didnt commit to processing the 
payment within a time that would guarantee that Mrs B and Mr S could make the application 
before the window for their preferred interest rate closed. So, for the above reasons, I dont 
uphold that part of the complaint.
In respect of compensation for misallocation of the payments, Ive looked at the level of 
compensation for that. This was quite a substantial payment for Mrs B and Mr S to make and 
after listening to the calls I can hear how upset Mrs B was. I note that Mrs B was concerned 
that the money might disappear although according to Barclays it was still held by the bank 
to the credit of the borrowers but in the wrong part of the account. I can also understand the 
distress was added to by the suggestion that it would take a further five days to allocate it 
although that proved not to be the case. On balance I accept that £400 is fair compensation 
in the circumstances. But, for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman