DRN-4337233
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain about what happened when they extended their mortgage with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. They wanted some extra money to build an extension, but said 
Barclays delay in paying meant they lost the builders, and were left in an unsuitable home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs V told us they have a mortgage with Barclays, and theyd agreed some further 
lending on the mortgage, which they wanted to use to pay for an extension on their home. 
They said this money should have been available to them at the start of August, but Barclays 
didnt pay on time. Barclays has blamed this on a mistake by its back office.
Mr and Mrs V said as a result of the delay, they lost the reliable builders theyd chosen to do
this work for them, and waited two years for. Barclays did provide the money at a later date,
but without the builders Mr and Mrs V said the money was no longer needed. Mr and Mrs V
said they paid the money back, but Barclays had already charged two interest payments,
and it then charged a third. Plus theyd paid £999 as an arrangement fee for lending they
could no longer use.
Mr and Mrs V wanted this extra lending mortgage account to be closed, the three payments
and the arrangement fee to be refunded, and a payment of compensation. Barclays had
already paid £500 in compensation, but Mr and Mrs V said that didnt sort things out.
Barclays said it would close this mortgage for Mr and Mrs V, and return the payments theyd
made for October and November. (It appears this letter was written before the December
payment was also taken.) Barclays would also refund the product fee of £999 that it had
charged for this lending. And it has paid Mr and Mrs V £500 in compensation.
Mr and Mrs V said this had taken up a huge amount of time, and caused a great deal of
distress. They said Barclays had finally credited them with the money theyd paid back to the
loan account, and interest theyd been charged for three months was refunded. They said
theyd wrongly been advised to cancel the direct debit for their mortgage, when they
expressed concerns that a further payment would be taken at Christmas. They didnt feel
that £500 made up for what had gone wrong here, and the effect it had on their family.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said Barclays acknowledged it
let Mr and Mrs V down, as the loan funds werent released on the agreed date. Our
investigator accepted that Barclays delays caused Mr and Mrs V to lose their chosen
builders, and stop their planned extension, which they were counting on to improve the
quality of life for their family.
Our investigator also said Barclays then made things worse, by not providing the redress it
offered for this complaint. It said in November that it wouldnt take any more payments for
this debt, but it did. And it hadnt paid back the £999 product fee it had offered to return.
Our investigator said Barclays should now refund the £999 product fee, as it had offered,
and when it does, it should add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date Mr and
Mrs V paid the product fee, until the date of settlement. And she said Barclays should pay a
total of £750 compensation, which would mean Barclays would now pay £250 more.
Barclays agreed, but Mr and Mrs V didnt. Mrs V replied to say Barclays actions had an
ongoing effect, as the family was living in a house that was too small for them, and couldnt
now do anything about that. Mrs V said theyd spent time drawing up plans, and agreeing
with the council that this work could go ahead, as well as time choosing builders and waiting
for their preferred builder to be free to take on the work. Mrs V told us this caused arguments
between her and Mr V, and affected her health.
Mrs V said Barclays still hadnt paid the £999 product fee back. She repeated that shed
been given wrong advice, approaching Christmas, that she should cancel the direct debit for
the mortgage. She wanted interest on the money the bank had kept. And she stressed just
how much of her time this had taken up, trying to get the bank to put things right.
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision.I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
I understand that Mr and Mrs V had put a great deal of care and effort into the 
arrangements for building an extension on their home, and that they considered this was 
increasingly necessary for their family. So Im sorry to hear that these plans havent 
come to fruition.
Barclays has accepted that funds should have been released on 1 August 2022. Its 
records show that Mrs V first chased the payment on Saturday 3 September, and at that 
time she said she was expecting the mortgage funds to be drawn down on 1 
September, not a month earlier. Unfortunately, by the time Mrs V chased the funds, the 
offer had expired.
I appreciate that Barclays did make a mistake, not releasing the money at the start of
August. But its records suggest it wasnt alerted to this mistake for over a month. So I 
think Mr and Mrs Vs funds werent available during August due to a combination of two 
things  one was that Barclays had made a mistake. And the other was that Mr and Mrs 
V dont appear to have been expecting the money until the start of September.
Barclays quickly reinstated the offer of additional borrowing, and it confirmed the funds 
were with Mrs V by Tuesday, 6 September. So I think Barclays then worked very quickly 
indeed to reinstate this borrowing, once it was alerted to the mistake.
On the same day as funds were sent to them, Mr V told Barclays they had lost their first 
builder. But at the time, they appeared to have found another builder to do the work, as 
Mr V was then asking Barclays to cover increased costs of £3,000. 
I understand the work didnt, in fact, go ahead. Mr and Mrs V have told us the extension 
they wanted may never now be built. But I can only consider, in this complaint, how 
Barclays actions have impacted Mr and Mrs V. And, as Mr and Mrs V did apparently 
secure a builder at the time, albeit at an increased cost, I havent been able to see that it 
was wholly Barclays fault that this work wasnt done. I also havent been able to see 
that, because of what happened here, it would be likely to be Barclays fault if this 
building work wasnt able to go ahead at some point in the future.Once Mr and Mrs V were clear they werent going ahead with the work, they asked to 
return the funds. I can see Barclays had agreed to this on 21 October, but I cant see 
that Mr and Mrs V were told about this, and about the arrangements for the return, until 
10 November 2022. Im not clear on the reasons for this delay, and this does appear to 
have prolonged things for Mr and Mrs V.
The money wasnt returned right away. Mr and Mrs V told Barclays theyd paid it into a 
with- notice account. Unfortunately, I think this also prolonged things for Mr and Mrs V. 
The mortgage advance was eventually returned on 7 December, very shortly before Mr 
and Mrs Vs next monthly payment was due.
I understand Mr and Mrs V were very concerned to still be asked for monthly payments 
on this lending for October, November and December. Although I appreciate that Mrs V 
had asked Barclays not to take payments in the meantime, I do think Barclays was 
entitled to ask for payments, while the lump sum still hadnt been repaid. I dont think 
Barclays could be sure, until the money was returned, that Mr and Mrs Vs plans 
wouldnt change.
Barclays then took one more payment in December. I know this was just after Mr and 
Mrs V finally returned the money. But I just dont think Barclays was given sufficient time 
between the return of the advance and the next monthly payment, to allow it to cancel 
that direct debit payment. Barclays did tell Mrs V she could cancel this payment herself, 
and Mrs V said she didnt do so, she thought this was very bad advice. But as Mr and 
Mrs V didnt owe the mortgage money by then, I dont think non-payment for December 
was likely to have resulted in negative markers on their credit files. So I dont think this 
was bad advice after all.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs V have received some poor service from Barclays, and I note 
that Barclays has accepted some fault in this case. So I think whats important here is 
that Im satisfied its done enough to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
Barclays has agreed to refund the £999 product fee, including 8% simple interest, to Mr 
and Mrs V. And it has agreed to pay an additional £250 in compensation, to make a total 
of £750.
I understand that whats gone wrong here has caused distress and inconvenience to the 
family. They spent a considerable amount of their time planning for the extension, then 
trying to put things right when the money didnt arrive. And Mrs V also told us this 
affected her health. So I think that a total compensation payment of £750 would provide 
part of a fair and reasonable outcome in this case.
Mrs V said she hadnt yet had a refund of the £999 product fee she was charged for this 
lending, although Barclays offered to make that refund in November 2022. Ill require 
Barclays to refund that fee now, if it hasnt already done so. I also agree with our 
investigator that Barclays should add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the 
date Mr and Mrs V paid the product fee, until the date of settlement.
I think Barclays may now have refunded the contractual monthly payments it charged for 
this lending, but Ill require it to do so as part of my award in this case if it hasnt done so 
already.
I can see that Barclays initially tried to make refunds as early as mid-November, but Mr 
and Mrs V hadnt yet returned the money Barclays had lent them, so the refund didnt go through. I wouldnt have expected Barclays to return the contractual monthly payments 
at this point.
Mrs V asked why there was no interest payable on these payments. I think these 
payments have been outstanding for some time for a combination of reasons, one of 
which is that Mr and Mrs V werent able to return the money theyd borrowed for almost 
a month after Barclays said it would take it back. And I think Mrs V was told how she 
could avoid making the final payment, taken in December. I dont think, in all the 
circumstances of the case, that it would also be fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to 
pay interest on this money too.
For the reasons set out above, I think this provides a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. I know that Mr and Mrs V will be disappointed, but I dont think Barclays 
has to pay more than this.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs V replied, to say that she didnt feel the offer reflected what she and Mr V had been 
through, but she had no further comments. 
Barclays replied to say it agreed. It said the contractual monthly payments had already been 
repaid, and £500 in compensation had been paid. It agreed to pay the remaining elements of 
my award.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must 
Refund to Mr and Mrs V the contractual monthly payments it took for the additional 
mortgage advance it made in September 2022, if it hasnt done so already.
Refund to Mr and Mrs V the product fee of £999 it charged for the additional 
mortgage advance it made in September 2022, if it hasnt done so already. Barclays 
Bank UK PLC must pay interest at 8% simple on this refund, from the date the fee 
was paid until the date of the refund. HM Revenue and Customs requires Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to take off tax from this interest. Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mr 
and Mrs V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Pay Mr and Mrs V a further £250 in compensation, to make a total of £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman