DRN-3514940
The complaint
N, a limited company complains about the service it received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when 
trying to close its account.
N, through a director Mr N, wants HSBC to pay more compensation than it has offered so 
far. 
What happened
N was unhappy with the proposed changes to the fee structure of its account, so it decided 
to close its business account.
N sent HSBC an account closure form in October 2021 but this wasnt actioned until 
December 2021. 
Mr N was then unhappy that HSBC sent a cheque for the balance of Ns account rather than 
transferring the money to its new account. As Ns HSBC account had been closed, Mr N 
couldnt access the account either online or by telephone. So, Mr N had to attend a branch 
to go through security. After Mr N visited a branch of HSBC at the end of December 2021, it 
took until late February 2022 for the transfer of funds to take place. 
Before this service became involved, HSBC offered to pay N interest of £632.50 for the loss 
of access to the funds in its account, calculated between 14 January 2022 and when N 
received the funds on 25 February 2022. HSBC also offered £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to N.
The investigator didnt recommend that Ns complaint be upheld in the sense that he thought 
HSBC had already done enough to put things right. In summary the investigator said:
Its agreed there were delays by HSBC
He was satisfied that HSBC made three attempts to contact N by telephone on 15, 
16 and 17 December 2021
After HSBC couldnt speak to N, it was reasonable for the bank to close the account 
and send a cheque for the balance of funds in the account
During the time between asking HSBC to transfer the funds electronically rather than 
by cheque and then receiving the funds, N had access to another bank account 
which reduced the financial impact
HSBCs offer of interest and compensation was fair
Mr N is unhappy with the investigators assessment. He doesnt think that taking two months 
to action Ns request to close the account is acceptable. Mr N wants voicemail evidence of 
HSBCs attempts to contact him. Mr N doesnt think it was acceptable for HSBC to send a 
cheque knowing there would be a charge for paying it in.
Mr N points out that he spent at least a day, if not two, trying to sort matters out and that this 
means N will have lost a daily income of £600.
Mr N is very unhappy with the level of customer service N received from HSBC, including 
around the closure process. Mr N says he referred Ns complaint to this service to highlight 
HSBCs failings
Since receiving Ns response to his assessment, the investigator told Mr N that HSBC had 
offered an additional £50 to include interest from 30 December 2021 rather than just 14 
January 2022. Mr N declined this offer and asked that an ombudsman decide Ns complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Ns complaint in my own words but our rules allow me to do 
this. I should also say that this service doesnt supervise, regulate, or discipline the 
businesses we cover. It would be for the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority  to 
make decisions about the way in which businesses work. This means that although I 
understand Mr Ns frustration with the way Ns account has been handled, my decision is 
limited to whether HSBC treated N unfairly and if so, whether its already done or offered 
enough to put things right.
Theres no dispute that HSBC made some mistakes when processing Ns closure request 
and then transferring funds to the new account. I can see that Mr N spent longer than he 
shouldve had to making calls to HSBC and trying to use the chat function. Although this was 
frustrating for Mr N, as the investigator has explained, N is a limited company, and so its own 
legal entity. This means I cant consider the impact on Mr N as an individual.
I agree that the time between HSBC receiving Ns account closure request and trying to 
make contact was longer than it shouldve been. But thinking about the impact this had on N, 
I dont have evidence to suggest that N lost out financially during this period. It still had 
access to its account with HSBC and looks to have opened an account with another bank 
around this time. 
HSBC says it called the mobile number it held for N on 15, 16 and 17 December 2021, 
leaving a voicemail on the last two attempts. Mr N says he received a voicemail on 16 
December but the phone number wasnt a valid one. Although Mr N would like HSBC to 
provide call recordings of the calls, I dont think its necessary for me to listen to them to 
reach my decision. Based on HSBCs records, Im satisfied the calls were made. So, I think 
that after it couldnt reach Mr N, it wasnt unreasonable of HSBC to close the account in line 
with the instructions N had given and send a cheque for the balance of funds. The fact that N 
mightve been charged a fee for depositing this cheque doesnt mean that it was wrong of 
HSBC to send it in this way.
It was unsatisfactory for N that HSBC took several weeks to transfer the funds to the new 
account but HSBC has offered to pay the interest that N will have lost out on. I consider this 
to be fair. HSBC says it will pay the interest without deducting tax so I leave it with N to deal 
with any tax implications that my flow from this.
Mr N has told us his daily rate, but we dont generally award compensation on an hourly or 
daily rate. Instead, I make my award based on the inconvenience N suffered because of the 
delays. I consider HSBCs offer to pay N £150 for the inconvenience caused is fair. Its within the range of an award we might make where the mistake has taken a reasonable amount of 
effort to resolve. Our approach to awards like this is on our website.
I do understand Mr Ns wish when bringing Ns complaint is to highlight the customer service 
problems he faced when trying to close the account. But for all the reasons Ive outlined 
above, that isnt something my decision can address. Im sorry that this is likely to disappoint 
Mr N.
 
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in the circumstances. 
So, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay N £832.50 (which is made up of 
£632.50 interest, £150 compensation and a further £50 to include interest).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman