DRN-3769890
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited decided unfairly not to replace his cooker 
which he says was damaged as a result of a fire in his home. Mr S made a claim under his 
home insurance policy with Aviva. 
All reference to the insurer Aviva in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr Ss home was damaged by a fire and he made a claim to his insurer, Aviva. 
Mr S says Aviva failed to carry out appropriate safety checks on his cooker. When it 
eventually arranged for the cooker to be checked by an electrician, Mr S says the reasons it 
gave for the cookers condition was incorrect. Mr S wants Aviva to pay him £10 a day from 
the date of the incident to the date it replaces his cooker. He says the cooker was damaged 
as a result of the incident by soot and smoke damage. He says it has been expensive and 
unhealthy for him to eat since not having use of his cooker. 
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said the cooker had sustained damage not related to 
the incident and was clearly of old age which led to failings caused by wear and tear. So it 
didnt agree to replace the cooker as it said there was no evidence it was damaged as a 
consequence of the fire. 
Mr S disagreed and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt find anything to 
contradict the findings of Aviva and its agents. So he didnt recommend the complaint should 
be upheld. 
Mr S didnt agree. In summary he says the crack on the hob of the cooker wasnt there 
before the fire. He says it happened when he tried to use the hob after the fire and the 
electricity kept cutting out. He says there was a missing dial and missing grill door to the 
cooker. But the dial could be easily replaced and hed taken the grill door off to clean it 
before the fire happened. So he said there wasnt any point putting it back on afterwards. 
Mr S says the condition of the cooker isnt relevant to whether it was safe to use following 
the fire. He says Aviva agreed to replace other electrical items in the home - but believes it 
isnt prepared to replace the cooker as it will be liable to pay him £10 a day for not being 
access cooking facilities under the terms of his policy. 
So Mr S wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that there was a delay in having the white goods and cooker checked in Mr Ss 
home. Mr Ss complaint about the delay was upheld by Aviva and it paid Mr S compensation. 
Mr S believes his cooker wasnt safe to use following the fire as a result of soot and smoke 
damage. 
Mr Ss electrical appliances were tested for safety and passed according to a report sent to 
Aviva provided by the contractor who carried out the tests. In relation to Mr Ss electric 
cooker, an electrician attended to report on any issues or damage. The electrician wrote to 
Aviva to say that the cooker failed an installation resistance test however I understand this 
to be a typing mistake and should read as an insulation resistance test which is a common 
test electricians undertake to check on the condition of the insulation of the conductors and 
any equipment to which they are connected. The electrician didnt identify any damage 
related to the fire.
In response to Mr Ss complaint, Aviva said that there was no evidence of damage to the 
cooker which was caused by the fire. 
Mr S says Aviva covered the replacement of other items which were not directly affected by 
the fire. But I havent seen anything to contradict the findings of the contractors appointed by 
Aviva to show the cooker had incident related damage. As Mr S says, the missing grill door 
and dial on the cooker doesnt seem relevant - although I think Aviva has looked at these 
things when considering the age and condition of the cooker before the claim. And it isnt 
possible to tell from the photos provided whether there was a crack on the hob before or 
after the incident. So taking everything into account, I cant say Aviva unreasonably rejected 
this part of Mr Ss claim.
I understand Mr S will be disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not upholding 
his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman