DRN-3095171
The complaint
The estate of Mrs D complains Arrow Global Limited harassed Mrs D when seeking 
repayment of a debt it held in her name.
 
Mrs Ds estate is represented by Mr D.
What happened
In August 2019, Arrow acquired a hire purchase debt in Mrs Ds name from another 
business. The original agreement covered the purchase of a car.
 
Arrow contacted Mrs D about the debt between August and December 2019. Sadly, Mrs D 
passed away in December 2019. Mr D informed Arrow of this in January 2020.  
 
Mr D complained to Arrow in August 2020. He was unhappy that Mrs D had been able to 
take out the original credit in the first place and felt Arrow had harassed Mrs D prior to her 
death causing her considerable stress and worry at an already difficult time. Mr D wanted 
Arrow to cover the costs of Mrs Ds funeral expenses, which were about £10,000, as 
compensation. 
Arrow considered the complaint. It said it was not made aware of any dispute about the 
balance being owed when it took over the account in August 2019 and that once it had taken 
over, it was entitled to contact Mrs D about the account.
 
Mr D wasnt happy with Arrows response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
 
An Investigator considered Mr Ds concerns. In summary, she said she was satisfied Arrow 
was entitled to make contact with Mrs D about the account and she didnt think the contact 
theyd made with Mrs D amounted to harassment. Our Investigator also explained Arrow 
werent responsible for anything that mightve gone wrong when Mrs D originally took out the 
credit. 
Mr D didnt agree with our Investigators findings. He maintained Mrs D had been harassed 
by Arrow and that there were problems when the original agreement was taken out. 
As Mr D didnt agree, the complaints been passed to for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry for Mr Ds loss. Its clear the last couple of years have been difficult for him 
while this complaint has been ongoing. 
When a customer owes money to a financial business, its reasonable for them to contact 
the customer for repayments. If the customer is having financial difficulties, wed expect the 
business to treat the customer positively and sympathetically.
Arrow has provided a copy of the Notice of Assignment for the debt it owned. This means itd 
legally bought the debt from the original lender. So Im satisfied Arrow had a legitimate 
reason to be in contact with Mrs D about it. 
I can see from the records Arrow was made aware Mrs D was unwell in September 2019. 
Arrow placed the account on hold for 90 days, which seems reasonable in the circumstances 
and the sort of steps Id expect to see it take. 
Arrows records show it made four phone calls to Mrs D, sent three letters and two text 
messages between August 2019 and January 2020. During the 90-day hold period, a single 
letter to confirm Mrs Ds account was hold was sent which I dont think is unreasonable  no 
other contact was attempted. The letter explained that if thered been no other updates by 4 
December 2019, they would be in touch again. I can see attempts to contact Mrs D resumed 
after this date. And although Mrs D had sadly passed away by this point, Arrow werent 
notified of this until 21 January 2020. After this, Arrow made no further attempts at contact 
and wrote off the debt as Id expect. So I dont find the contact Mrs D received from Arrow 
was excessive or harassing.
 
Im aware that Mr D has concerns about what happened when the hire purchase agreement 
was originally taken out. But as our Investigator explained, Arrow isnt responsible for the 
actions of the original lender. 
I know Mr D will be disappointed by my decision but having considered all the contact Mrs D 
received from Arrow, Im satisfied they treated her fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold the estate of Mrs Ds 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman