DRN-2391162
The complaint
Ms F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund to her the money that she 
paid to a travel company for some flights. 
What happened
Ms F used her NatWest credit card in September 2019 to pay £698.98 for some flights. She 
cancelled the flights in November 2019 and used the same credit card to pay a cancellation 
fee of £150. She received a credit for £575.42.
She says that the travel company has refused to provide her with an itinerary or the credit 
and hasnt responded to her complaint. She says that when she tried to book a flight in 
March 2020 the travel company asked her for an extra £175. She says that the travel 
company received a refund from the airline but it wasnt passed back to NatWest or her. 
She claimed a refund of the £848.98 that shed paid to the travel company from NatWest 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that the evidence hadnt proven 
the travel company to be in breach of its contract or misrepresenting itself so it was unable to 
agree to there being a valid claim under section 75  but as a gesture of goodwill it credited 
her account with £175 to cover the cost of the charge requested to make the new booking.
Ms F wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service but our investigator 
didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She concluded that the travel 
company had charged Ms F correctly and, although the credit expired in September 2020, it 
had extended it until December 2020. She was unable to say that there had been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation so NatWest hadnt done anything wrong in declining Ms Fs 
section 75 claim. 
Ms F has asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She has responded 
to our investigators findings in detail and Ive carefully considered the information that shes 
provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Ms Fs complaint about NatWest, I must be satisfied that theres 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the travel company and that 
NatWests response to her claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im 
not determining the outcome of Ms Fs claim under section 75 as only a court would 
be able to do that;
Ms F paid £698.98 for flights in September 2019 - £50 of which was a non-refundable 
deposit  and the booking confirmation clearly set out that the ticket was non-
refundable;
she wanted to cancel the ticket in November 2019 and the travel company sent her 
an e-mail which said that she would be a charged a fee of £150 for processing the 
cancellation and that she would receive a credit of £575.42 (there was a change fee 
of £150 and the fare difference) which she could use with the same airline and 
itinerary but all travel must be completed within one year;
Ms F replied to say Yes thats fine. Thanks and the travel company charged the 
£150 processing fee to her credit card  I consider that the processing fee was a 
separate charge to the change fee of £150 and the fare difference that had been 
deducted from the cost of the original flights to give the credit amount of £575.42;
Ms F says that she tried to use the credit in March 2020 but the travel company 
asked her for an extra £175 so she didnt book those flights  but the travel company 
extended the period by which the travel booked using the credit had to be completed 
from September to December 2020;
I can see why Ms F might not have fully understood the way that the credit had been 
calculated and that she was paying an additional processing fee of £150  but she 
agreed to those arrangements (including the card payment of £150 and the credit of 
£575.42) and Im not persuaded that the travel company was required to refund to 
her any of the money that shed paid to it;
NatWest isnt liable under section 75 for any issues that Ms F has with the travel 
companys customer service and Im not persuaded that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the travel company;
I consider that it was fair and reasonable for NatWest to conclude that Ms F didnt 
have a valid claim under section 75 but it credited her account with £175 as a gesture 
of goodwill to cover the cost of the charge requested to make the new booking  that 
was a decision for it to make and I wouldnt have required it to pay her any 
compensation in these circumstances; and
I consider that NatWests response to Ms Fs claim under section 75 has been fair 
and reasonable and I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
refund to Ms F any of the money that she paid to the travel company, to pay her any 
other compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman