DRN-4216081
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car acquired with finance from Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr T was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with BMF. At the point of supply the car was around 7 years old and had covered around 
90,740 miles.
Mr T experienced some issues with the car. He says he had to replace the battery around 
two months after getting the car.
Mr T took the car for an MOT in October 2022 but it failed on the emissions test. Mr T 
discovered that the exhaust had been clipped together, the anti roll bar links were damaged, 
and the suspension arm ball joint was worn.
Mr T says he was without the use of the car for several weeks until he could get the car 
through its MOT. It passed an MOT on 14 November 2022.
Mr T raised a complaint with BMF in March 2023. He said the head gasket had blown due to 
the water pump perishing.
BMF didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had reviewed the pictures of the car provided by 
Mr T but these werent sufficient to show whether the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply. It said it had reviewed the MOT history and the reasons why the car failed its 
MOT was due to wear and tear of the components.
Mr T remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence  to say 
that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr T didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when they are supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would consider to be acceptable taking into a account 
factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the [rice paid. The legislation says that 
the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like 
fitness for purpose, freedom from minor defects, appearance and finish, safety and 
durability.
Id expect a second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr T  to have a degree of wear and 
tear when it was supplied and to require repairs and maintenance sooner than, say, a brand 
new car. 
Ive reviewed the available information about the issues which Mr T experienced with the 
car. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault with the car. Mr T has said that 
the head gasket has blown and that theres water leaking from the engine. I havent seen a 
diagnostic report to confirm the fault, but Im persuaded by Mr Ts testimony that the fault 
exists. So Ill go on to consider whether the fault with the head gasket was present or 
developing at the point of supply.
Ive also reviewed the MOT information. I can see that there were some issues with the car 
which caused it to fail the MOT in October 2022. It appears that these issues were fixed 
because the car passed its MOT the following month. Ill consider whether the issues 
identified at the MOT were present or developing at the point of supply.
Just because theres a fault doesnt mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. So I need to consider whether the fault was present at the point of supply and 
whether that fault made the car of unsatisfactory quality.
The relevant legislation says that where a fault occurs in the first six months from the point of 
supply, its assumed that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply, and its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to 
repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car.
After six months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the 
fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr T has said that he had to replace the battery around two months after getting the car. I 
havent been provided with any evidence to show that the battery was replaced, or any 
evidence to show that there was something wrong with the battery. Because of this lack of 
evidence, Im unable to say that there was a fault with the battery at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed the MOT history of the car. An MOT was completed in August 2021 around 
three months before the car was supplied to Mr T. The car passed the MOT with two 
advisories  the front suspension arm ball joint had some play and the front brake disc was 
worn. Taking the age and mileage of the car into consideration, I think these advisories can 
fairly be considered as wear and tear to the component parts of the car. Im not persuaded 
that these advisories meant that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr T.
I can see that the car failed an MOT in October 2022. The issues identified included a 
suspension arm pin and the suspension arm ball joint. The car also failed the emissions test. 
Because these issues arose more than six months after the point of supply, its up to Mr T to 
show that the faults were present or developing at the point of supply. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that the faults were present or developing at the point of supply. If the 
issues had been present, I would have expected them to present themselves much sooner. I 
appreciate that the suspension arm ball joint was an advisory item at the August 2021 MOT. 
But as Ive said, Id consider this to be reasonable wear and tear to a component part given 
the age and mileage of the car, and something which a reasonable person would expect to 
repair or replace as part of general maintenance of the car.
The head gasket fault occurred more than six months after the point of supply. So again, its 
up to Mr T to show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that there was a fault with the head gasket at the point of supply. If there had been, I would have expected Mr T to experience a serious issue with the 
car much sooner, given the number of months hed been driving the car and the mileage 
hes covered.
In relation to the other issues experienced by Mr T, including the damaged anti roll bar and 
the exhaust being clipped, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that these faults were 
present or developing at the point of supply. Even if the exhaust was clipped when the car 
was supplied to Mr T, theres no evidence to suggest that this was the cause of the car 
failing its emissions test at the MOT in October 2022.
I appreciate that Mr T is unhappy about some aspects of the cars bodywork and that the car 
didnt have a spare tyre or a wheel jack. Its reasonable to expect that a car of this age and 
mileage is going to have some wear and tear to the bodywork and may have items of 
equipment missing. Theres no evidence to suggest that the supplying dealer told Mr T that 
the spare wheel or the jack were present, or that they would be supplied. So Im unable to 
say that these issues meant that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Taking all of the available information into account, and whilst I appreciate that Mr T has 
found it frustrating to experience these issues with the car, there isnt enough evidence for 
me to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T. So I wont 
be asking BMF to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman