DRN-1427848
 
The complaint
Miss C complains that she was unable to use her TSB Bank plc account card at an ATM and 
about how her complaint was dealt with.
What happened
Miss C says she was unable to use her TSB account card at an ATM in July 2019. She says 
TSB paid her £42 compensation but that isn't enough and that it didn't deal with her 
complaint fairly. Miss C says she made several calls to TSB about this  and was told to 
attend a branch to see the branch manager. She says the service she received was 
appalling.
TSB says it offered Miss C £42 compensation which it says she accepted. It says it didn't 
own the ATM and paid for Miss C's expenses. TSB says Miss C has an account with a 
different bank and hasn't told it if she was able to withdraw money from that account. It says 
it sent her a new account card.
Miss C brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought TSB had dealt fairly with it. 
The investigator didn't think there was any evidence that TSB had made a mistake and that 
it wasn't responsible for the ATM. The investigator thought the compensation of £42 was fair 
and reasonable and the issue with Miss C attending a branch had been dealt with under a 
different complaint.
Miss C doesn't accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that TSB has dealt fairly with this complaint. I realise Miss C will be disappointed 
by my decision.
I'm satisfied that the ATM Miss C used wasn't operated or owned by TSB. So if there was a 
fault with it, then I can't fairly hold TSB responsible for that. I can see that TSB has said 
there was no issue with Miss C's account that would have prevented any withdrawals. So I 
think on balance the problem was likely to have been with the ATM. But I can see that TSB 
fairly replaced the account card in any event and paid compensation for what took place.
I'm satisfied that TSB also paid for Miss C's expenses which included call costs and a taxi 
fare. So I don't think Miss C lost out financially as result of what took place and for the 
reasons I have explained I think TSB acted fairly by paying compensation in circumstances 
where I can't see that it made a mistake or acted unfairly. I can see that Miss C has an 
account at a different bank, and hasn't told me if she was also unable to use that account 
card .I appreciate that Miss C says she has been treated appallingly and was told to see a branch 
manager. I don't think Miss C has explained why TSB's actions were appalling but in any 
event I think TSB has paid Miss C compensation which it appears she accepted at the time. 
And I can see that the branch visit has been dealt with under a separate complaint. I make 
clear that on the evidence I have seen I would not have considered that visit to have justified 
TSB paying any further compensation in any event.
Overall I'm satisfied TSB has dealt fairly with this complaint, and so I can't order it to do 
anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman