DRN-1641944
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office Financial 
Services) allocates payments to his credit card. 
What happened
Mr K has a credit card with Post Office with a 0% interest balance transfer offer that has an 
outstanding balance. Mr K also uses his card for purchases and makes payments to avoid 
paying interest on them. In July 2019 Mr K complained to Post Office about being charged 
interest on purchases. 
Post Office responded on 23 July 2019 but didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. Post Office set 
out its credit card terms concerning how payments are allocated to the different parts of Mr 
Ks account. Post Office said Mr K had made manual payments to his credit card to cover 
transactions he hadnt yet been billed for. As the payments were received before 
the transaction were billed, Post Office used the money to reduce the outstanding balance 
on the balance transfer part of Mr Ks account. 
Post Office also said Mr K had previously complained about the same issue and that the 
interest he was being asked to pay was correct. Mr K went on to refer his complaint to our 
service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator didn't find that Post Office had 
made errors in the way payments were allocated. Mr K responded to explain why he feels 
Post Office's terms are confusing and his analysis of how he thinks the payments should be 
applied. 
As Mr K asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'd like to thank Mr K for the level of detail he's added to his initial submissions and 
responses to the investigator. I've considered everything that Mr K and Post Office have said 
and sent us in relation to this case. I'm not going to respond to each point Mr K has made 
and will focus on what I feel are the key issues in this case. I hope Mr K won't take that as a 
discourtesy, it reflects the informal nature of this service. But, I'd like to assure Mr K that I've 
considered everything he's said when reaching my decision. 
I understand Mr K feels Post Office has incorrectly used payments he has made to reduce 
the balance transfer element of his credit card debt when they should have been used to 
cover purchases. I'm sorry to disappoint Mr K, but I don't agree. I won't copy the relevant 
terms again because Mr K, Post Office and the investigator have all set them out. But the 
terms do give details of how payments are allocated and I haven't found that Post Office has 
made an error. Mr K has been charged interest after making manual payments to cover purchases, before 
Post Office billed him for them. I know Mr K made the manual payments to cover his 
purchases and avoid interest. But as Mr K made manual payments before the purchases 
were included in his statement, they correctly were used to reduce the outstanding balance 
instead. The statements and terms I've seen show the payments Mr K has made have been 
applied to the different parts of his credit card account correctly. 
I understand Mr K feels the terms are ambiguous to the point that Post Office is treating him 
unfairly but I haven't found that to be the case. I'm satisfied the terms do explain how 
payments will be allocated. I note that Post Office has further explained the process of how 
payments are allocated when responding to Mr K's complaint, so he can avoid incurring 
interest in the future. 
I'm sorry to disappoint Mr K but I'm satisfied Post Office's credit card terms explain how 
payments made to his credit card will be allocated. I haven't found that Mr K has incorrectly 
incurred interest on his credit card purchases or that Post Office has made a mistake in the 
way it has charged him. As I haven't found that Post Office has made an error and I'm 
satisfied it has dealt with Mr K's complaint fairly I'm not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman