DRN-1423076
 
The complaint
 Mr M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance ("PPI").
 
What happened
On the same day in 1993 Mr M opened two TSB Trustcard credit card accounts with Lloyds. 
PPI cover was added to the accounts either when Mr M opened them, or at some point 
between then and January 2000, which is the earliest that Lloyds has a record of 
PPI premiums showing on Mr M's credit card statements.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicator's opinion, 
so the complaint's been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mr Ms application forms or credit agreements for the 
cards. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given that Mr M opened the 
accounts so long ago.
 
Lloyds has, however, provided a sample of the type of application form that was in 
use when Mr M opened the credit card accounts. It includes a section on PPI, with 
equally prominent options to accept or decline the cover. I acknowledge that I cant 
be certain that Mr M took out the PPI at the same time as the credit cards. But if he 
took it out at a later date, I think its likely that hed have realised that the PPI wasn't 
compulsory. And from what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI with credit cards 
between 1993 and 2000, I think its more likely than not that it would have made 
Mr M aware he had a choice about PPI. 
 
Taking everything into account, without stronger evidence that Lloyds didn't make it 
clear the PPI was optional, I cant fairly conclude it sold the PPI to Mr M without giving him a choice. Overall, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds made it clear 
to Mr M that he had a choice about whether to take the cover, and that he decided to 
take it, knowing that he didn't have to  although I can understand why he may no 
longer remember this, so long after the event.
 
Mr M says PPI wasn't discussed when he opened the credit card accounts. Lloyds 
hasn't been able to confirm how the PPI was sold to Mr M. And I dont know whether 
it recommended it to him. If it did recommend the PPI, it had a responsibility to check 
that it was suitable for him. But even if it did recommend it to him, it doesn't look as if 
it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of Mr M's circumstances at the time.
 
Based on what we know of Lloyds credit card PPI policies sold between 1993 and 
2000, I can see no reason why Mr M would have been ineligible for the PPI. And 
from what hes told us about his circumstances I dont think its likely hed have been 
caught by any of the things it didn't cover  such as existing health problems or 
unusual employment arrangements. So Im not convinced that thered have been 
anything to stop Mr M taking full benefit from the PPI cover if hed needed to.
 
Mr M has told us that hed have been entitled to six months' full pay, followed by six 
months' half pay from his employer if hed been off sick. But if hed made a 
successful claim on the PPI, its likely it would have helped with his monthly credit 
card payments for up to 12 months. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition 
to his sick pay, allowing him to use that to meet day-to-day living expenses. And it 
would have provided similar protection if Mr M had lost his job.
 
I acknowledge that Mr M has told us that his wife could have supported him 
financially if need be. But circumstances can change. So I cant be sure that Mr Ms 
wife would have been in a position to help him if the need had arisen. And I dont 
think this meant he didn't need the PPI.
 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr M chose to take out the PPI. 
So he appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably 
forgotten that now. It looks as if he could have benefited from the PPI cover. It was 
competitively priced, and I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr M couldn't afford 
it. So taking everything into account, I think its unlikely hed have made a different 
decision even if better information had been provided. On balance, I think hed still 
have taken out the policy. 
 
I've taken into account all Mr M's comments, including what he's said about always having 
been able to make his monthly credit card payments. But the PPI was designed to help with 
Mr M's monthly credit card payments if something unexpected happened. And while he may, 
in fact, not have had any reason to claim on the PPI, he couldn't have known that this would 
be the case when he took it out. So this doesn't change my conclusion that the PPI wasn't 
mis-sold.
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman