DRN-2856241
The complaint
Mr J complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled his claim for subsidence 
on his home insurance. 
Throughout the claim and complaint Mr J has been represented by a third party. For ease of 
reading all references to Mr J include the actions of the third party.  
What happened
Mr J had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by UKI. In 2015 he noticed cracks in 
his property and contacted UKI to make a claim. It sent out a contractor who concluded the 
damage wasnt caused by subsidence but was more likely a drainage issue.
Mr J contacted UKI again in 2017, after new cracks started to appear. This time UKIs 
contractor confirmed the cracks were caused by subsidence. Further investigation was 
carried out to determine the cause. Some vegetation was identified that should be removed 
and some that needed to be maintained to avoid future problems.
In November 2018 UKI sent a contractor to assess what repairs were required. However it 
took some time after this for anything further to happen on the claim. Mr J made a complaint 
to UKI. It upheld the complaint and issued £500 compensation.
After this another visit to the property was arranged for the end of May 2019. The report that 
followed recommended a further arborist report was completed alongside a period of 
monitoring, to establish the extent of the movement.  
Monitoring was due to begin in July 2019, however this didnt happen until September 2019. 
It was agreed for a period of 12 months. Once this was complete a schedule of repair works 
was drawn up however it took some time for this to be provided to Mr J. And during this time 
there was little communication.  
Mr J made another complaint as he felt the claim was progressing slowly and he wasnt 
getting any updates. He said he was looking to release equity from his house, but couldnt 
do this until the subsidence issue had been dealt with. UKI didnt respond to the complaint 
within the required timescales, so Mr J brought it to us to investigate.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He agreed the claim had been 
delayed by UKI and that communication had been poor. He recommended £600 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience this had caused Mr J. 
UKI accepted our investigators recommendation. However Mr J didnt agree. He thought he 
was due more compensation due to the poor service from UKI and the impact thatd had on 
him. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by making clear what I will be looking at as part of this complaint. UKI issued a 
final response letter in May 2019. This addressed Mr Js complaint about slow progress and 
delays up until this point and awarded £500 compensation. This complaint wasnt brought to 
this service and is now out of time to do so. I am therefore only able to assess events after 
this date, up until UKI informed Mr J he could refer his complaint to this service in October 
2020. 
Mr J has said the progress of his claim has been too slow and he has received very little 
information from UKI throughout. Insurance claims for subsidence will often take a long time 
to resolve. The cause of the subsidence first needs to be identified and this is usually 
followed by long periods of monitoring to ensure the property is stable. So this can take a 
long time  often years. I need to decide if UKI has caused additional delays that could have 
been avoided. And where it has, what it should do to put things right. 
From looking at the timeline of the claim from May 2019, I agree UKI has caused 
unnecessary delays. After Mr Js first complaint it promptly attended his property again and a 
report was put together and issued in good time. The report recommended the removal of 
further vegetation and monitoring to commence straight away. However monitoring didnt 
begin until September that year  nearly four months after it was recommended to 
commence. As the monitoring was to take place for 12 months, this had an impact on when 
repairs would be able to begin. Ive seen nothing to explain this delay, so I agree this was an 
avoidable delay caused by UKI.
Further, during this time, I can see Mr J contacted UKI for an update on the claim but didnt 
receive any response until September 2019. This would have been distressing for Mr J, as 
he didnt know when monitoring would begin.
Once monitoring was complete in August 2020, it took another two months for UKI to provide 
Mr J with a scope of works for the repairs required. And at the point he brought his complaint 
to this service, I understand that no repairs had commenced. As Mr Js claim had been 
ongoing for over three years, I can understand this additional delay would have caused 
further distress. 
Mr J has also explained that he has been waiting to release equity from his home in order to 
address a financial matter. However he isnt able to have his house reasonably valued until 
the subsidence issue has been resolved. This would have meant the delays caused by UKI 
would have caused additional distress, as Mr J hasnt been able to release the equity he 
requires or have an accurate timescale of when he may be able to do so. 
So from reviewing the claim between May 2019 and October 2020 I think UKI has caused 
around six months of delays that could have been avoided. Further, it has provided very little 
communication with Mr J which has left him without an idea of how his claim is progressing 
and has caused him to send repeated emails in order to find out. I therefore agree with our 
investigators view that UKI should pay £600 compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this delay and poor service.  
I understand Mr J doesnt agree that this amount is enough to make up for the distress he 
has been cause. And I understand his strength of feeling on the matter. However I can only 
consider the period between May 2019 and October 2020 and the delays that were caused 
by UKI during that time. And based on that, I think £600 is fair in the circumstances and in 
line with our approach on other cases.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr J £600 compensation.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman