DRN-2963287
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined her wedding 
insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. Instead Ill provide a summary and then focus on the reasons for my decision.
Miss A took out insurance for her wedding that was due to take place in November 
2020 with around 90 guests.
Miss A cancelled (and re-arranged) the wedding in October 2020. She said the 
wedding could not go ahead due to Covid-19 and would like to claim for items that 
shes unable to use on her rescheduled date, totalling £245.53.
Great Lakes declined the claim as it said it wouldnt pay out for claims arising directly 
or indirectly from Government regulation. 
In its file it said it appeared that Miss A had re-arranged the wedding due to the 
number of guests able to attend. And it noted that the items being claimed for were 
neither wedding services or ceremonial attire. So it said its position was that this 
wasnt an insured event and/or the items werent covered. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She concluded that the wedding couldve 
gone ahead, albeit with a smaller number of guests, and that this wasnt an insured 
event.
Miss A disagreed with the outcome reached by the investigator. She said the 
government advised she legally couldnt go ahead with the wedding. And shes 
unhappy she was asked to send receipts in for a claim that was ultimately declined. 
So the complaint has been passed to me for a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Under Part 1   Cancellation of the policy terms and conditions, it explains that Great 
Lakes will cover irrecoverable expenses incurred in respect of ceremonial attire, 
flowers etc. booked but not used due to the unavoidable cancellation as a result of 
one or more of eight specified events. These include (but arent limited to): non-
appearance of wedding suppliers, adverse weather, death or illness of the couple or 
close relative and loss or damage to ceremonial attire. The most relevant of these 
was cancellation due to the booked venue for the wedding or wedding reception 
being unable to hold your wedding due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious 
disease 
But, while it references disease, the key part is that the venue must be unable to hold 
the wedding or reception. The policy defines wedding and wedding reception 
respectively as a ceremony which creates a contract of marriage... and the social 
gathering including, but not limited to, room hire and catering, at which the wedding 
will be celebrated Based on evidence Ive been provided with, the venue was 
willing and able to hold both the wedding and the reception as defined, so this term 
doesnt apply  it wasnt an unavoidable cancellation.
Miss A said the government advised her not to proceed with the wedding. But while 
there were restrictions on numbers, weddings (as defined under the policy) could still 
take place. There wasnt a regulation in place at that time to prevent the wedding 
from proceeding. So, I maintain that cancellation was avoidable.
Turning next to the terms for rearrangement, I note the policy says In the event of 
cancellation or curtailment of the wedding for reasons specified in Part 1 above, we 
will reimburse you for reasonable additional costs incurred in rearranging the 
wedding. But, as Ive said above, the cancellation of the wedding wasnt for any of 
the reasons specified in part 1. So, it follows that Great Lakes wouldnt cover the 
additional costs involved in rearranging the wedding. 
Miss A is also unhappy that she was asked to send in receipts for the items she was 
claiming for if the claim wasnt going to be paid. The policy states that all documents 
required in support of a claim, including items being claimed for must be provided by 
the policyholder. Ive not seen anything that leads me to conclude that Great Lakes 
was unreasonable in its request for information when it was determining whether this 
was a claim it would approve. 
So, based on everything Ive seen and been told, while I do empathise with Miss As 
situation and can appreciate why she cancelled the original wedding date, I cant say 
that Great Lakes has done anything wrong in declining this claim. Having said that, it 
does appear that there was some confusion around the reasons for the declined 
claim. But, nevertheless, under the terms and conditions which both sides contracted 
into, cancellation due to a reduction in guests isnt insured. Insurance doesnt cover 
every eventuality and, in this case, it was Miss As choice to cancel. I cant see that 
Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in the handling or rejection of this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Great Lakes Insurance 
SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman