DRN-3012383
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the transfer of her ISA from Barclays Bank UK PLC, referred to as 
Barclays or the transferor, to a new provider, referred to as the transferee.  
Mrs J says, according to her Independent Financial Adviser (IFA), shes lost around £1,700 
as result of delays by Barclays. 
What happened
Mrs J held an ISA worth around £40,000 with Barclays, which matured in June 2020. In due 
course she was advised by her IFA to invest the ISA with a third-party business.   
Mrs J says that the transferee sent the request to transfer at the end of September 2020, but 
Barclays first registered the request on its system on 7 December 2020. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it says it received instructions to transfer 
the ISA in November 2020, and the transfer was completed (broadly) within 10 working days 
of receipt of instructions, so it doesnt accept that it caused any delays. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The request may have been sent by the transferee at the end of September 2020, 
but theres no evidence to say that this was received by Barclays. 
The records show that the request was first registered on 7 December 2020. But 
without evidence to show that the request was received by Barclays in September, 
she cant blame it for the delay in registering the request. She also cant hold 
Barclays responsible for any postal delays or any delays caused by the transferee. 
Mrs J only got in touch with Barclays in November 2020, after many weeks had 
passed. In the circumstances, the transferee ought to have chased Barclays sooner. 
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) guidance says that the ISA transfer  
from cash to stocks and shares  should be completed in accordance with the 
existing ISA managers terms and conditions. Therefore, Barclays hasnt done 
anything wrong in this regard. Once it had received the form, Barclays successfully 
transferred the request within three days by 10 December 2020. 
According to the terms and conditions Barclays had five days to complete the 
transfer. 
In the circumstances, Barclays isnt responsible for any financial loss Mrs J may have 
suffered, because its not responsible for the financial markets. 
Mrs J disagreed with the investigators view. She provided information  in the form of an 
undated letter(s)  that showed that her IFA had been in touch with the transferee. 
Having considered the addition points, the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In short, she said she cant hold Barclays responsible for delays that may have been 
caused by matters that were outside of its control.
Barclays said that the letter (referred to by Mrs J)  providing instructions  was sent to a 
location that wouldnt have processed the request, because it wasnt the correct location. But 
if the request had been received, it probably wouldve taken steps to locate Mrs J on its 
system and send the request to the correct location. However, theres no record of this letter 
being received.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
I asked Barclays several questions, including seeking clarification around when it received 
the request, when the transfer was completed and the difference between when the 
application was received and when it was registered because the information on file wasnt 
clear. In short, it said:
According to a note on our complaint archive we were informed by the ISA team the transfer 
to another provider takes 10 working days.
 We received the request from the transferee (name anonymised) on 20 November 2020 
which was a Friday, 10 working days later was Friday December 4th. The transfer was 
complete on the following Monday December 7th.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs J says, I 
cant safely say that Barclays behaved unreasonably in this instance, so Im not upholding 
this complaint.
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to note Mrs Js strength of feeling 
about this matter. She has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which 
Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs J and Barclays, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. 
But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than 
not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think that a transfer request was probably 
sent by the transferee in September 2020 as suggested by Mrs J. But in the circumstances, 
Im unable to safely say that it was received by Barclays (in September 2020)  Ive seen no 
evidence that it has. Therefore, any suggestion that Barclays received the request in 
September 2020, and deliberately didnt process it until November/December 2020, is 
unlikely.  
However, Barclays has confirmed that it received the transfer request on 20 November 
2020. I note it was only after Mrs Js intervention that another request was sent by the 
transferee. I also note the investigator feels that Mrs J (or the transferee) couldve chased 
Barclays sooner rather than waiting over a month.  
In the circumstances, I dont blame Barclays for not acting prior to 20 November 2020, 
because its possible that there was an issue with the post the led to Barclays not receiving the September 2020 request. But if that was the case, it wasnt caused by Barclays, so in the 
circumstances I cant blame it for the actions of a third-party postal service. 
I also note that Barclays confirmed that the request was addressed to the wrong 
office/department at Barclays. So, even if the September 2020 request was received by 
Barclays, which on balance I dont believe it was, it couldnt have been processed 
immediately as intended by Mrs J. 
I note Barclays says that if it had received the request, it wouldve taken steps to identify Mrs 
J and pass on the request to the correct location. But because Barclays didnt receive the 
request, it couldnt have taken steps to identify her and forward the request to the correct 
department. 
In short, Barclays confirmed that the request was received on Friday 20 November 2020. 
The transfer was thereafter completed by Monday 7 December 2020, roughly within 10/11 
working days of receiving the request, and broadly within the time it should action a transfer. 
In the circumstances, Im unable to safely say that Barclays behaved unreasonably.  
I dont think the request was registered first on 7 December 2020, as suggested by the 
Investigator. On the face of the evidence and on balance, it seems to me thats when the 
transfer took place. It then seems the account was closed-down in the next day or two at 
most. So, in the circumstances, I dont think Mrs J is entitled to any redress. 
I appreciate what Mrs J says about the loss of value. Im sure Mrs J already knows, that the
value of her investment is dependent on the stock market. The impact of the Covid-19 global 
pandemic on financial markets, is not something that Barclays could control or predict. So, in 
the circumstances I cant blame it for not being able to obtain a better price when funds were 
sold. 
I appreciate that Mrs J will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. But on the 
face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give 
her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman