DRN-3787477
The complaint
Miss E has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (check correct business) 
passed her information to one of its network suppliers without her consent. Miss E says 
Admiral breached data protection rules. 
What happened
In August 2022 Miss E was involved in an incident which she says wasnt her fault. She 
informed Admiral and was given the option to either claim through her insurance policy or 
through a credit hire company. Despite Miss E requesting that her claim be dealt with by 
Admiral, the agent incorrectly passed her details to the credit hire company. 
Miss E told Admiral she was going on holiday the following day. However, she received calls 
from the credit hire company and an approved repairer while on holiday. This meant some of 
Miss Es holiday was spent communicating with Admiral as she was unhappy her details had 
been passed to another business. Shed made Admiral aware she was going on holiday so 
didnt expect to be contacted. 
Miss E complained to Admiral. She said its error had impacted on her holiday. She wanted 
Admiral to pay suitable compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused. She was unhappy that her details had been shared without her consent. 
Admiral upheld Miss Es complaint. It gave feedback to the agent involved who made the 
error. Admiral followed Miss Es request to claim under her policy - but failed to cancel the 
instruction to the credit hire company. It reassured Miss E that the credit hire company was a 
trusted supplier - but in any event it had referred the matter to its data protection team to 
ensure there were no repercussions from the error. 
Miss E was also unhappy that Admiral hadnt been clear in the notification call about how 
much excess she would pay. While Admiral checked the call and found the correct excess 
had been confirmed, initially the agent had thought it might be lower. 
For the complaints Admiral upheld, it apologised and paid Miss E £100 compensation. 
Miss E asked us to look at her complaint. She didnt think the compensation Admiral had 
paid was enough to reflect the impact its error had on her while she was on holiday. And she 
said she still worries about the potential impact of a data breach. 
Our Investigator thought Admiral had done enough to put things right. Miss E didnt agree. 
She says it was her first holiday in over two years after Covid 19 restrictions were lifted. She 
says having to spend time dealing with her claim with Admiral during her holiday had an 
impact on her and her travelling companion as they werent able to do things theyd planned 
for two days. 
Miss E wants compensation equivalent to two days of the cost of her holiday. So shes 
asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong, we look at what the impact was, for how long and what a business 
did to put things right. 
I understand Miss Es frustration and upset at being disturbed while on holiday by Admiral 
and the credit hire company. Theres no dispute Admiral failed to follow Miss Es instructions. 
This led to Miss E having to spend some time in calls which no doubt took up some of her 
holiday time. 
The awards which we give are modest - and we will also take into account other things a 
business does to resolve a complaint - as well as financial compensation. 
In this case, Admiral apologised and gave feedback to its agent. It also checked with its data 
protection team to reassure Miss E there would be no further repercussions in relation to 
sharing Miss Es data with a supplier. 
I think overall Admiral has acted reasonably in resolving Miss Es complaint. And so Im not 
asking it to increase the compensation it paid. I understand Miss E will be disappointed, but I 
think the £100 Admiral paid is a fair amount to reflect the inconvenience it caused along with 
its feedback and checks to reassure Miss E. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman