DRN-2881554
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken with a 
mortgage that started in 2006. Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
(Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background to and circumstances of the complaint were set out in our adjudicators 
opinion letter. Details of the PPI policy benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, were set 
out there and arent disputed, so Ive not repeated all of that here. Details of Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale were also set out there. Since then Mr and Mrs C have 
kindly clarified that their life cover was greater than set out in that letter  being four rather 
than two times their salaries (two times being what was set out on PPI questionnaires sent 
for them to Halifax and us) - and that the cover for each of them exceeded the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs C have also kindly confirmed their sick pay entitlements as six months full pay 
followed by six months half pay.
The PPI policy was insurance to help with mortgage-related costs, particularly monthly costs 
like the mortgage loan repayment, if Mr or Mrs C couldnt work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. In this case the PPI was provided within a packaged or umbrella policy 
called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan. This could contain one or more of the following 
three elements  PPI, critical illness cover and life cover. Each element could be included 
within the plan or not and each was costed separately. The plan Mr and Mrs C took also 
contained the life cover and critical illness cover elements as well as the PPI.
The complaint brought by Mr and Mrs C to Halifax, via their representative, was about PPI  
the accident, sickness and unemployment repayments cover. This was the focus of Halifaxs 
response and it was the PPI policy within the plan that our adjudicator assessed as that is 
what the complaint was about.
The information Halifax has sent suggests Mr and Mrs C cancelled the whole plan, including 
the PPI policy element, after eight months - so it only ran for a short period of time. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs Cs representative disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion. It didnt raise new or additional points but repeated complaint 
points and arguments it had previously made. Mr and Mrs C also asked for a decision. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mr and Mrs C have said the PPI was just included with their mortgage. Halifax no longer 
has all the documentation from the sale. But Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage offer, which they 
were sent before the policy or the mortgage started, made it clear the only insurance 
they had to take with the mortgage was buildings insurance. Also it listed the PPI under 
the heading Optional Insurance. The same points were made in a key facts personal 
illustration produced a few days earlier. All this makes me think it likely Mr and Mrs C 
were made aware the PPI was optional.
The mortgage offer also said the PPI was insurance Mr and Mrs C had chosen to take. 
It also set out the cost of the PPI separately from the other mortgage costs (the key facts 
illustration did so too). So I think it likely Mr and Mrs C were aware the PPI carried a 
separate cost (separate from the mortgage loan and also from the other plan elements).
In addition, what we know of how Halifax usually sold PPI policies like Mr and Mrs Cs 
makes me think Halifax usually made it clear the PPI was optional. Ive nothing to make 
me think Halifax wouldnt usually have given customers like Mr and Mrs C a choice about 
the PPI and made that clear.
Taking everything into account, and having considered all Mr and Mrs C have told us 
about this, I think it likely Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take the PPI 
and they chose to take it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it had to check the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time shows the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example Mr and Mrs C 
were eligible for the cover and, although they had some cover from work, from what they 
have told us they wouldve suffered a loss of income had either one of them been unable 
to work for a prolonged time due to sickness, accident or unemployment  their sick pay 
reduced by half after six months, for example - so I think they had a need for the cover. 
Also, nothing about Mr or Mrs Cs employment or occupation wouldve made it difficult 
for them to claim  they werent affected by policy limitations for temporary or fixed term 
employment for example. And Mr C hasnt told us of having any existing health issues 
that the policy mightve excluded. It also looks like the cover was affordable at the time. I 
say this bearing in mind not only that Halifax at the time had approved Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage application, but also that the approximate cost of the PPI seems to have been 
disclosed to Mr and Mrs C in advance of the policy and mortgage starting, so it appears 
they went ahead with it having been made aware of the approximate cost.Mrs C has told us of health issues she had more than ten years before the sale and its 
likely she couldnt have claimed for work absences related to those health issues. The 
policy also had limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions. But Ive nothing to make me think Mrs Cs past health issues were ongoing or 
had caused work absences or issues for her in the years closer to the sale. I say this 
considering all the parties have said about this. Taking into account everything I have, on 
balance Im not persuaded absences related to Mrs Cs past health issues ought to have 
been considered by Halifax as so likely that their exclusion made the cover no longer 
suitable or worthwhile for Mrs C  bearing in mind what it could still cover. So I dont 
think this made it wrong for Halifax to recommend the cover  or to recommend it on a 
joint basis in the way Halifax did. In saying this I also bear in mind that what we have 
about their salaries indicates Mr C was the higher earner but not by a large margin.
Also, what Mr and Mrs C have said about being financially stretched at the time tends to 
suggest a loss of income for either of them was something they had at least some need 
to cover.
Overall, in light of their circumstances at the time, I think Mr and Mrs C still had some 
good reasons to take the PPI, despite the policys limitations and exclusions, and Im not 
persuaded Halifaxs recommendation of the cover was unsuitable.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found they chose to take the PPI, and I think it unlikely they 
wouldve done so without a broad idea of what the policy covered. So it looks to me like 
they wanted this type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for them, as I concluded above, and 
given their circumstances it seems like it couldve been useful for them if something went 
wrong. Also, the mortgage offer gave them a good idea of what the PPI was likely to cost 
and Ive seen nothing to suggest this was significantly at odds with what they were given 
to expect when they initially chose to take the cover. Also I think it unlikely they wouldve 
agreed to take the cover without having some idea of the approximate cost to start with. 
Overall, I dont think it likely the PPI was too dissimilar to what its likely Mr and Mrs C 
thought they were buying - and with this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont think they 
wouldve declined the cover had Halifax done anything more (for example in terms of 
explaining the policy exclusions for existing heath issues).
Overall, I consider Mr and Mrs C wouldve still taken the PPI. Given their circumstances, it 
couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult a time were either of them to have become 
unable to work for a prolonged time due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Also I think 
it was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And, in those 
circumstances, I think it likely they wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints. Ive thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Cs particular case. 
But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. This means Halifax doesnt 
have to do anything to put things right.
Im grateful to Mr and Mrs C for the courtesy and assistance theyve offered throughout our 
consideration of their complaint, and for the further information theyve provided promptly 
during the course of our investigation.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman