DRN-2240371
The complaint
 Mrs J complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her
alongside a store card in 1997.
AXA is responsible for complaints about these cards. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA 
for the rest of this decision.
 
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because AXA hadnt told Mrs J
everything it should have done about the cover. She didnt think Mrs J would have taken the 
PPI if shed been given all of the relevant information as she had reasonable means of 
making her repayments. AXA disagreed with that view and so the matter has been
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. Having done so Ive decided to uphold the
complaint. Ill explain why below.
From the information Ive been provided with, it seems that PPI was sold to Mrs J alongside 
a card. I cant know for certain what was said. But from the information thats available I think 
its unlikely Mrs J was given a full breakdown of what the policy would have cost.
Mrs J told us that she would have received six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay if she was off work due to sickness. She also had £3,000 in savings. In full she had 
access to funds to cover more than 12 months of her income.
AXA have told us that from its experience of roles similar to that Mrs J was in she would not 
have been entitled to such generous sick pay. But Mrs J has been consistent with what she 
has told us about her sick pay entitlement so I dont think I have enough to say Mrs J 
wouldnt have received the benefit she has told us that she would.
Considering the other means Mrs J had of making her repayments I dont think she would 
have found the policy to be good value for money if she was given more information. So, I 
think Mrs J has lost out because of what AXA did wrong.
Putting things right
 AXA must put Mrs J in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI by
taking the steps set out below:
A) AXA must find out how much Mrs J would have owed when she closed her store card
account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as
well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that
were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs J owed when she closed her
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Mrs J made a successful
claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it
owes her.
B) Add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs J would have owed when she
closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest rate 
should be 8% simple a year.
C) If  when AXA works out what Mrs J would have owed each month without PPI  she
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the
extra Mrs J paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs J wouldve
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a
year.
D) AXA should tell Mrs J what its done to work out A, B and C.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs J 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA France IARD to put things right by doing what Ive 
explained above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman