DRN-4495023
Complaint
Mr W complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) unfairly entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with him. Hes said that he already had several other debts and he was 
struggling with everyday living expenses. 
Background
In June 2019, SMF provided Mr W with finance for a used car. The cash price of the vehicle 
was £13,064.00. Mr W received a part-exchange allowance of £412,80 for an existing 
vehicle and entered into a hire-purchase agreement with SMF for the remaining balance to 
be paid. 
The amount lent was £12,651.20 The agreement had interest, fees and total charges of 
£6,712.40 (made up of interest of £6,702.40 and an option to purchase fee of £10) and the 
total amount to be repaid of £19,776.40 was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of 
£322.56 followed by 1 final monthly instalment of £332.56. 
Mr W complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. SMF didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that the 
finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that SMF had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ws 
complaint should be upheld. Mr W disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ws complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
SMF needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that SMF needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr W before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
SMF says it agreed to this application after Mr W provided details of his monthly income. It 
says it also carried out credit searches on Mr W which did show one defaulted account but 
that this was historic from five years previously. The credit search also showed six active 
accounts which were up-to-date. And when the amount owing plus a reasonable amount for 
Mr Ws living expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly payments were 
still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr W says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr W and SMF have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that unlike our investigator, I dont think that the checks SMF 
carried out did go far enough. I dont think it was reasonable to rely on an estimate of Mr Ws 
living costs given there was some adverse information on his credit file, even if SMF 
considered the information to be historic. 
As SMF didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think SMF is more 
likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from Mr W. Bearing in mind, 
the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly payment, I would have 
expected SMF to have had a reasonable understanding about Mr Ws regular living 
expenses as well as his income and existing credit commitments. 
To be clear Im not going to carry out a forensic analysis of whether the loan payments were 
affordable. Im simply going to consider what SMF is likely to have done if it obtained the 
missing information I think it should have done here. I say this because the information Mr W 
has provided does appear to show that when his committed regular living expenses and 
existing credit commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, 
at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept its possible that Mr Ws circumstances were worse than hed let on. For example, I 
know that he also had a county court judgement (CCJ) recorded against him. But the CCJ 
while more recent than the default was still relatively historic. And Mr W had been 
maintaining payments to another hire-purchase agreement which he was trading in as a 
result of purchasing this vehicle.
Furthermore, what I need to think about here is what did SMF need to do in order to answer 
the questions its initial checks left unanswered  in other words, what were Mr Ws actual 
regular living expenses (bearing in his credit commitments were already validated by the 
credit search and theres an acceptance his income was correct)?  given this was a first 
agreement and Mr W was being provided with a car rather than cash. 
Bearing in mind checking bank statements wasnt the only way for SMF to have found out 
more about Mr Ws actual living costs  it could have obtained copies of bills or other 
evidence of payment etc  I dont think that proportionate checks would have extended into 
obtaining the bank statements Mr W has now provided us with. So I dont think that SMF 
could reasonably be expected to have known about the nature and extent of any additional 
spending, or other matters, which are now being highlighted with the benefit of hindsight. Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that SMFs checks 
before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mr W did go far enough, Im satisfied 
that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have stopped SMF from 
providing these funds, or entering into this agreement. 
So Im satisfied that SMF didnt act unfairly towards Mr W when it agreed to provide the 
funds. And Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr W. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman