DRN-2614810
The complaint
Ms W isnt happy that Capital One (Europe) plc defaulted her accounts without giving her 
notice that they were going to do so.
What happened
Ms W had two accounts with Capital One. Ms W missed payments for both accounts in 
August 2016, which meant that arrears began to accrue on the accounts.
In October 2016, Ms W notified Capital One that she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Capital One encouraged Ms W to seek debt management advice and offered to put the 
accounts on hold. Capital One also sent Ms W income and expenditure forms to complete 
and return in order that they could better understand what Ms W could afford to pay. Ms W 
said that she didnt need the accounts to be put on hold and that she would be able to make 
arrears payments in November 2016 to bring both accounts up to date.
Ms W only made the necessary arrears payment on one of the accounts, which meant that 
the other account remained in arrears. Capital One attempted to contact Ms W about this, 
and in December 2016 a payment plan was agreed between Ms W and Capital One. 
However, Ms W wasnt able to make payments on either account, and so both accounts fell 
into arrears.
Capital One tried contacting Ms W again, but without success, and both accounts continued 
to fall further into arrears. Capital One sent notices of default for the two accounts in 
February 2017 and March 2017 respectively. And because the necessary payments werent 
received, both accounts were subsequently defaulted and reported as such to the credit 
reference agencies.
Ms W wasnt happy about this because she didnt receive the default notices. So, she felt 
that Capital One hadnt provided her with sufficient notice that her accounts were going to be 
defaulted. And Ms W was also unhappy that these defaults had an adverse effect on a 
mortgage application she made. So, she raised a complaint.
Capital One looked at Ms Ws complaint, but they felt that they had acted appropriately in 
how they had managed Ms Ws accounts and that they had provided notice of arrears and 
notice of default. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms W wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They were satisfied that Capital 
One had sent the arrears and default letters, and they didnt feel that Capital One had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably to Ms W in how they had managed her accounts. So, they didnt 
uphold the complaint either.
Ms W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W doesnt dispute that her accounts were in arrears, or that she was aware that they 
were in arrears. Rather, Ms W is concerned that she never received the notices of default 
that Capital One says that they sent, and she believes that these notices might never have 
been sent.
However, Capital One have been able to demonstrate that the notices of default were sent, 
and that they were sent to the correct address. Its a requirement that a business sends a 
notice of default to a customer to give that customer a warning that their accounts may be 
defaulted if the necessary payments are not made on the accounts within a specified time. 
And Im satisfied that Capital One have met that requirement here.
Ms W has said that she didnt receive the notices of default that Capital One sent. While I 
can understand how it would be frustrating for Ms W to discover that her accounts had been 
defaulted if she hadnt received the notices advising her of this, this isnt something that I can 
reasonably hold Capital One accountable for. 
I say this because a business is required to send the notices of default  and in this instance 
Im satisfied that Capital One have done that. It isnt the case that a business is required to 
ensure that sent correspondence has been received. And this service wouldnt hold a 
business accountable if a sent letter isnt delivered or received, because it isnt fair to 
censure a business for the action or inaction of another organisation  in this instance, the 
postal service.
And Ms W was aware of the arrears that were accruing on her account. So, it would be 
reasonable to expect Ms W to understand that the consequences of continued non-payment 
toward her accounts might include the possibility of default. Additionally, given that the 
accounts were in arrears, its also reasonable to expect Ms W to have contacted Capital One 
to confirm he status of those accounts if she wasnt receiving correspondence about them.
So, while I can understand Ms Ws frustration here, its difficult for me to conclude that 
Capital One have acted unfairly or unreasonably toward Ms W, and it follows from this that 
Im satisfied that it was appropriate for Capital One to default the accounts and report the 
defaults to the credit reference agencies.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms W was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Capital One to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman