DRN-2846643
The complaint
Mr W complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) granted him a 
loan that was unaffordable for him.
What happened
In June 2016, Mr W took out a loan for £2,000 with Everyday Lending. The loan was to be 
repaid over 24 months with the repayments set at £158.05 a month.
Mr W later complained that Everyday Lending lent to him irresponsibly because the loan was 
unaffordable for him. Everyday Lending said it had completed affordability checks which it 
believed were reasonable and proportionate. These showed the loan was sustainable as   
Mr W had disposable income. 
Mr W remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
thought Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Everyday Lendings calculation 
of Mr Ws disposable income was correct and concluded it hadnt made a fair lending 
decision.
Everyday Lending disagreed with our investigators view. It said Mr Ws mobile phone bill 
was factored into his living expenses calculation. While it hadnt seen evidence of Mr W 
receiving child benefit, it had factored in £160 into the expenditure for two children which 
more than covered the child benefit. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Everyday Lending to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure Mr W could afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to think 
only about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him.  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Everyday Lending gathered information from Mr W before the loan was agreed. It asked for 
information about his employment and housing costs. It verified Mr Ws income from bank 
statements. It also checked his credit file.
Everyday Lending says the affordability calculation it conducted at the time showed Mr W 
had a monthly disposable income of £61.72 after taking into account his consolidated loans 
and Everyday Loans monthly repayments. 
Everyday Loans calculated Mr Ws salary to be £1181.16 a month, using the information 
from his bank statement. Its added £148.95 child benefit to this to give Mr W a total monthly 
income of £1,330.11. Its unclear why Everyday Lending added child benefit to Mr Ws 
income. This doesnt appear on his bank statements and I havent seen anything else that 
shows me Mr W was receiving this.
Everyday Lending has noted Mr W lives with partner and has put down £0 for 
rent/mortgage. It used information from Mr Ws credit file to calculate his existing creditor 
repayments. These worked out to be £499.32 a month. Its estimated Mr Ws other living 
expenses to be £500 a month. 
Everyday Lending says that the £500 estimate personal expenditure was worked out by 
using 35% of a customers net income with a minimum of £500 and a maximum of £1,000. It 
says this was widely regarded as the national average. I can see Everyday Lending added 
an additional £160 to its estimate of Mr Ws expenditure to account for his two dependants 
(at £80 per child).
Everyday Lending thinks its okay that its included child benefit in Mr Ws income (despite 
there being no evidence he received it) because the amount its factored in for his 
dependants is higher than this. But I think it would be reasonable for Everyday Lending to 
have considered Mr Ws dependants when estimating his expenditure, regardless of whether 
or not he was receiving child benefit for them. 
Everyday Lendings affordability assessment calculated Mr Ws credit commitments to be 
over £600 a month with his new loan repayments. Approving the loan would mean more 
than half of Mr Ws relatively low income being committed to repaying debt. The bank 
statements Mr W provided Everyday Lending with at the time of his application show that   
Mr Ws expenditure closely matched his income and his account was often overdrawn. So, I 
think Everyday Lending ought reasonably to have realised that Mr W would most likely have 
had difficulty making his loan repayments without borrowing elsewhere.  It follows that 
Everyday Lending should reasonably have realised that Mr W was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay the loan and concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him.
 
Having considered everything, I dont think Everyday Lending acted responsibly when it 
granted Mr W the loan. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because hes had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him. So, Everyday Lending should:
Remove all interest and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr W made 
as payment towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ws loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Everyday Lending should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they would 
have arisen to the date of settlement*If reworking Mr Ws loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Everyday Lending should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr W for the revised balance.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to deduct tax from this interest. Everyday 
Lending should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman