DRN-3990497
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Santander UK Plc declined his request to port (transfer) his 
mortgage interest rate product onto a mortgage on another property. As a result, Mr O had 
to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) of over £7,000, which he considers to be unfair.
To settle the complaint, Mr O wants Santander to refund the ERC and pay compensation for 
the distress caused to him and his family.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr O being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite short.
The events giving rise to the complaint took place in 2022. Mr O had a mortgage with 
Santander on a property in which he lived. He owed £142,500 on an interest-only basis. In 
December 2019 Mr O had transferred the mortgage onto a new interest rate product, at a 
fixed rate until 2 March 2025. If the mortgage was repaid, in full or in part, before that date, 
an ERC was payable. The mortgage interest rate product could be transferred to a mortgage 
on another property, subject to Santanders lending criteria and terms and conditions.
In the summer of 2022 Mr O wanted to move house, but keep his current property as a 
buy-to-let, re-mortgaging it in order to raise additional capital to go towards his new property 
(which he was buying at £450,000). Mr O would then take out a new residential mortgage on 
his new property.
Mr O had a conversation with Santander about this in June 2022. He explained that his 
broker had already arranged a BTL mortgage on his existing home, but hed learned that 
going ahead with this and repaying his Santander mortgage would incur an ERC of about 
£7,000. Mr O wanted to know what his options were. Mr O said hed need a new mortgage 
of about £270,000 for his new purchase, so he wanted to port his existing mortgage interest 
rate product, and borrow about £130,000 more.  Mr O also wanted to convert his existing 
mortgage from interest only to capital repayment.
Santander explained that it wasnt possible to port the mortgage if Mr O wasnt selling the 
property. Mr O could keep his existing mortgage, with consent to let (CTL), and then take out 
a new mortgage to buy his new property, thus avoiding the ERC as Mr O wouldnt be 
redeeming his existing mortgage. However, during the conversation a number of stumbling 
blocks arose:
Mr O wanted to release equity from his existing property to put towards his new 
purchase, which wasnt allowed if Santander granted CTL;
therefore, if Mr O wanted to avoid the ERC, hed have to keep his mortgage as it was;
Mr O wasnt in permanent employment, but was a contactor. His latest contract, started 
the previous January, was due to run out in four months time. Whilst Mr O was confident 
hed get another contract, this type of employment didnt meet Santanders lending 
criteria.
Mr O called Santander again in September 2022 when he discussed porting again. At first 
the Santander agent assumed Mr O was selling his existing property, and so discussed 
porting the existing mortgage. 
However, once it was established that Mr O wasnt selling, the agent confirmed that Mr O 
wouldnt be able to port his existing product onto a new mortgage; thats because, under 
Santanders terms and conditions, porting was only allowed where the customer was selling 
their property and buying another. Therefore, although Mr O would be able to keep his 
existing mortgage, with CTL and no extra borrowing, any new mortgage would have to be 
from Santanders new product range. 
Mr O said he wanted to move his mortgage and borrow additional funds. This time Mr O said 
he was looking to borrow £400,000 against a purchase price of £450,000. Santander said 
that, for a second property, Mr O would need a deposit of £90,000, as the maximum 
permitted loan-to-value ratio was 80%. There was some discussion about new mortgage 
rates, and it was explained that if Mr O wanted to go ahead with a new mortgage, this would 
be subject to a full application and a credit check. Mr O said he would think about this and 
come back to Santander.
However, rather than go back to Santander to discuss a new mortgage, Mr O redeemed his 
Santander mortgage on 28 October 2022 and completed his new purchase on the same day 
with a mortgage from another lender.
Mr O complained to Santander. The complaint wasnt upheld so Mr O raised it with our 
service. He said hed been with Santanders predecessor since 2006, and felt hed been 
treated unfairly. Mr O said that he should have been charged the ERC as he had no choice 
but to move because Santander wasnt offering him the services that he wanted.
Mr O said he wasnt told when he took out the mortgage that he could not transition from a 
permanent role to a contract role, and that he would have to be in the role for 12 months. 
Mr O said that as a contractor it is not guaranteed he will be in a job for any length of time. 
Mr O said that he and his family had been emotionally impacted because he couldnt go to 
any lender as he had only recently come out of an IVA. Mr O said he hadnt budgeted for the 
ERC in his finances when he was buying the other property.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. This was because Mr O hadnt met the criteria for his mortgage interest rate to be 
ported onto a new property, and so Santander had been entitled to charge the ERC. He 
noted that Santander had looked at ways to help Mr O avoid the ERC by keeping his existing 
mortgage with CTL, but that wouldnt have allowed Mr O to borrow additional funds to 
release equity from that property.
Mr O didnt accept the investigators outcome and made some further points, which I 
summarise below:Santander never offered to allow him to keep his existing mortgage and apply for CTL 
and he wants recorded proof of this;
it makes no sense for him to have gone ahead with another lender if he could have 
avoided the ERC of £7,000 by staying with Santander;
hed been with Santanders predecessor since 2006, and had had no difficulties with 
affordability of the mortgage, which was only £300 on interest-only.
The investigator provided Mr O with the call recordings where Santander had told Mr O that 
he could keep his existing mortgage with CTL and avoid the ERC. The investigator also 
explained that, because Mr O had wanted to increase his borrowing and change the 
repayment type, Santander would have been entitled to consider affordability.
Mr O still didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that, when hed taken out the five-
year fixed rate in 2019 hed tried to rescind it and go back to his old rate, but was refused. 
He also said that the ERC wasnt made clear to him in 2019, and if hed known about it, he 
could have made an informed decision at the time. 
Mr O said that the mortgage hed discussed with Santander in September 2022 was £300 
more than the mortgage offer he already had. Mr O said that if Santander had offered him 
the same rate, then he would have gone with the CTL, even though it wasnt guaranteed that 
he would have qualified based on his job status and finances.
Mr O asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the Mortgage Market Review (MMR) 
carried out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which took place after the financial 
crash in 2008. This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way 
residential mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for 
stricter lending assessments, aimed at protecting consumers and encouraging mortgage 
lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they had passed tests under the old rules but 
wouldnt under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are 
contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out an 
affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best 
interests.
This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go down. If 
theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, theres no 
obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And if there is a change to the terms 
of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a lender could still decide to allow an 
application without an affordability assessment if doing so would otherwise be in the 
borrowers best interests.
In this case, Mr O did want to make changes to his existing mortgage that were material to 
affordability  because he wanted to borrow more money (initially he said about another 
£130,000 on top of his existing mortgage, bringing the loan up to £270,000, but later said 
hed need £400,000), and increase the mortgage term to 25 years. 
Therefore if an application had gone ahead, Santander would, I find, have been entitled to 
consider affordability, and whether the application met its lending criteria. Santander clarified 
during the first call that, because Mr O was a contractor on a contract that had only been 
running for a few months, this didnt meet its lending criteria. If Mr O had been selling the 
property and wanting to port on a like-for-like basis onto his new property (so an interest-only 
mortgage of £142,500 over the same nine-year term) then Santander could have made an 
exception under MMR rules and allowed this. But if that had happened, Mr O wouldnt have 
had enough money to buy his new property, as he needed to borrow much more than 
£142,500 in order to do so.
But in any event, even if Mr O had made a full application to port his existing mortgage 
interest rate product and take out new borrowing, Im satisfied that the application could not 
have proceeded in any event. This is because Mr O wasnt selling his existing property.
Clause 19 of Santanders mortgage terms and conditions deals with the process for 
transferring the mortgage onto a new property. It says:
19.1 This condition applies if you notify us that you wish:
a) to pay off the money you owe us on completing a sale of the property; 
and
b) at the same time, to complete a mortgage with us under which we will 
lend you money on the security of another property that you wish to buy.
(my emphasis)
It is therefore a condition, in order to port the interest rate product onto a new mortgage on 
another property, that the property on which the mortgage was originally held is sold. That 
wasnt Mr Os intention; he wanted to rent out the property. Given this, even if hed taken out 
a new Santander mortgage, he still could not have ported his existing interest rate product. 
And any application for a new mortgage would have been subject to Santanders lending 
criteria, including employment status and past credit history.
In all the circumstances, I think that, once Santander knew Mr O wasnt selling his original 
property, the bank looked at how it could help Mr O to avoid incurring the ERC by keeping his mortgage on the same terms, but with CTL. Although Mr O says he wasnt told this, Ive 
listened to the call recordings  copies of which Mr O has also been sent. In those calls 
Santander explained to Mr O that he could keep his existing mortgage on its existing terms, 
but with CTL (and thus avoid the ERC). However, he wouldnt be able take out additional 
borrowing on that mortgage to raise money towards his new property. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think Santander has done anything wrong. Mr O could not 
have ported his mortgage interest rate product onto a new mortgage, for the reasons Ive 
explained above. Therefore the ERC was correctly applied in line with the terms of the 
contract Mr O agreed to in 2019. 
I note Mr O has recently told us that the existence and implications of the ERC were never 
pointed out to him when he took the product switch in 2019. Thats a new issue that Mr O will 
need to raise with Santander. But in relation to this particular complaint, Im satisfied 
Santander is under no obligation either to reimburse the ERC or pay compensation to Mr O.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman