DRN-3988563
The complaint
Mr M complains about the decision by AXIS Specialty Europe SE to turn down his claim for 
accidental damage under his property owners insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and for these 
reasons:
When AXISs loss adjuster visited the property, they couldnt identify the cause of 
damage. Mr M therefore arranged for two inspections to take place  both reports 
confirmed that the cause of damage was a pipe that had become dislodged. This 
meant the filter bed had become contaminated beyond repair, and the septic tank 
needed to be replaced. 
AXIS says the system was not fit for purpose and the location of the tank and system 
was the cause of the problem. However, the two reports obtained by Mr M made it 
clear that the system had been fit for purpose for many years, with no issues until 
February 2022. The report of September 2022 explained why the proposed position 
of the septic tank on the consent to discharge wasnt appropriate for the site, and that 
the actual location of the septic tank was considered best practice. Im therefore not 
persuaded AXIS has shown the system wasnt fit for purpose.
AXIS thought the damage was likely due to wear and tear or breakdown due to faulty 
design, specification and/or workmanship, but it hasnt provided any persuasive 
evidence of this. Although it says it obtained advice from a septic tank contractor, it 
didnt obtain a report from that company, and they didnt complete a site visit. I 
therefore find that greater weight should be placed on the reports obtained by Mr M. 
Although it is not known how the pipe became dislodged, Mr M arranged for 
desludging to take place annually, and so it may have become dislodged during that 
process. Regardless though, Im satisfied a dislodged pipe meets the policy definition 
of accidental damage and that AXIS should therefore deal with the claim. 
I agree with our investigator that Mr M has been caused inconvenience by AXISs 
handling of the claim and claims decision. He had to pay for and arrange for the tank 
to be regularly emptied until a full repair could be done. I think the delays could have 
been avoided if AXIS had arranged for an inspection to be carried out by a septic 
tank contractor. I require AXIS to reimburse Mr M for the drainage costs, and also 
pay £400 compensation for the inconvenience and distress caused to him. It should 
also reimburse him for the reports he obtained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXIS Specialty Europe SE to do the 
following:
- Deal with the claim for the repairs and loss of rent in line with the policy terms. If 
Mr M has paid for the repairs himself, he should be reimbursed and interest* added 
at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the costs were incurred to the date 
of settlement. For the loss of rent payments, interest* should be added at the rate of 
8% simple per annum from the date each rental payment was due to the date of 
settlement.
- Reimburse Mr M for the cost of the two reports and the emptying of the tank until full 
repairs could be done. Interest* should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum 
from the date the costs were incurred to the date of settlement.
- Pay Mr M £400 compensation.
* If AXIS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman