DRN-4472589
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that the valuation of their buy to let property was inflated when they 
bought it. They say that Wave Lending Limited didnt carry out any due diligence before 
lending to them. They also complain that Wave declined to extend the term of the mortgage, 
and they tried numerous times to contact it.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a buy to let mortgage with Wave in 2007, via an intermediary which is 
no longer trading. Mr and Mrs R took out the mortgage to fund the purchase of a new build 
property as an investment. The mortgage is on an interest only basis and the term is due to 
expire in 2027.
Mrs R has been diagnosed with a serious health condition and Mr and Mrs R are reviewing 
their financial affairs. When considering whether to sell the property or take out a new buy to 
let mortgage they discovered that the current value of the property is less than they paid in 
2007. 
In October 2022 Mr and Mrs R made a complaint to Wave about the property valuation in 
2007. They say Wave provided a mortgage without checking the property value and theyve 
lost out as a result. Mr and Mrs R say they wouldnt have gone ahead with the purchase if 
Wave had had the property valued. Mr and Mrs R asked Wave to extend the mortgage term 
to 2034, on its variable rate. Wave declined. It offered £75 for inconvenience caused to Mr 
and Mrs R by being on hold when they called. It didnt agree with their other complaint 
points.
Since then, Mr and Mrs R asked that Wave allows them to redeem the mortgage at a 
discount, and refunds fees paid in 2007 to various parties (such as the broker, property 
developer and Wave), with interest. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying an 
independent surveyor valued the property in 2007 and Wave was entitled to rely on the 
valuation. A copy of the valuation report was provided to Mr and Mrs R. 
Mr and Mrs R said the valuation report raised further questions and commented in detail on 
this. They said if it had been shared with them in 2007 they wouldnt have gone ahead with 
the purchase. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R raised a number of issues related to the valuation, purchase and mortgage of 
their property in 2007. We provide an informal dispute resolution service. Im required to 
explain why I reach my decision. But I dont have to comment on or respond to each point 
made by the parties. I must be clear that the complaint Im looking into is the one raised by 
Mr and Mrs R with Wave in October 2022. I cant look into any new issues raised by Mr and 
Mrs R which Wave hasnt had an opportunity to investigate and respond to. 
I should also explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The valuation in 2007
Lenders are entitled to carry out a valuation of the security property, to help them make a 
decision whether to lend. Id expect Wave to appoint a suitably qualified valuer, which it did 
here (the valuer was a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors). 
Waves valuation report form requires the valuer to confirm they understand that a copy of 
the report will be disclosed to the borrower. Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Rs argument 
that this wording creates a legal obligation on Wave to provide a copy to them, but ultimately 
that would be for a court to decide. The valuation was carried out on behalf of Wave, for 
mortgage purposes. While some lenders might provide a copy of the valuation report to the 
borrower theres no general obligation for lenders to do so. 
Mr and Mrs R have now seen the valuation report. They say it wasnt reasonable for Wave to 
rely on the valuation. This is because the report says the road was unadopted and unmade 
(with a possible liability of £1,000) and provision of a mining report should be considered as 
a condition of the mortgage (the surveyor said a report was recommended due to the 
location of the property). Mr and Mrs R say the comparable properties referred to by the 
surveyor arent sufficiently similar. 
It was for Wave to decide whether the property was suitable security, despite these issues. 
The surveyor gave a valuation, which was consistent with the expected valuation in the 
application form and the amount Mr and Mrs R had agreed to pay for the property. I think its 
difficult now to say that the comparable properties set out by the surveyor werent the most 
appropriate available at that time  or that Wave should have known this. 
Mr and Mrs R say the valuation report refers to the wrong property  the house number in 
the report is No. 3 and Mr and Mrs R say their property is No. 10. They provided recent 
statements and bills showing their property is No. 10.
The mortgage application form (which was signed by Mr and Mrs R) refers to No. 3. The 
mortgage offer acceptance (which is also signed by Mr and Mrs R) refers to Plot 3. Other 
documents also refer to No. 3 or Plot 3. It could be the numbers were changed before the 
property development was completed. Its also possible the surveyor made an error with the 
number in the report. However, from what Mr and Mrs R have said, No. 3 is a two-bedroom 
semi-detached house, which is quite different from their three-bedroom mid-terrace house. 
The valuation report refers to a three-bedroom mid-terrace house. So it looks to me that the 
surveyor was referring to the correct property in the valuation report, even if the house 
number is now different. 
Mr and Mrs R say if theyd seen the report and the number of potential issues they wouldnt 
have proceeded. I find that unlikely. First, the valuer gave the property a value of £190,000  
the amount Mr and Mrs R had agreed to pay. I think theyd likely have accepted the 
valuation, which was as theyd expected. Second, I think if Mr and Mrs R were concerned to 
ensure there were no potential issues with the property theyd have ticked the box in the 
application form for a homebuyers survey and valuation for my use or a building survey for 
my use. Instead, Mr and Mrs R asked for a basic valuation. The notes in the application 
form  which Mr and Mrs R signed  say that this might not be sufficient for their purposes and they shouldnt rely in any way on the valuation report prepared for Wave when deciding 
whether to proceed. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R feel strongly about this matter. And I can understand how 
disappointing it is that their property value has fallen. But, based on the available evidence, I 
dont think that Wave was unfair or unreasonable when it instructed the valuation or when it 
relied on the expert opinion of the valuer. I dont think it had to provide a copy of the 
valuation report to Mr and Mrs R in 2007, or that matters would have been different if it had. 
Extension of the mortgage term
Wave considered Mr and Mrs Rs request for a term extension, but declined saying it was a 
speculative proposal based on market changes. It said it could consider an informal grace 
period to allow Mr and Mrs R time to sell or re-mortgage the property nearer the maturity 
date. 
I think Waves response was fair and reasonable, in the circumstances. Ive taken into 
account that this is a buy to let property bought as an investment, and letting property is a 
business. Theres time before the term expires for Mr and Mrs R to explore their options. Mr 
and Mrs R sent the latest valuation of the property, an email from an estate agent. Part of 
the email is cut off, but it appears to suggest marketing the property at £165,000. This is 
about the same as the outstanding mortgage balance. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R cant 
be sure how much someone might pay for the property until they market it for sale, but this 
valuation suggests Mr and Mrs R could have options to explore.
Our investigator said that Wave ceased lending in 2008 and doesnt offer new interest rate 
products. When Mr and Mrs R raised their complaint with Wave they said they wanted to 
extend the term on the variable rate. I dont think they included in their original complaint a 
concern that theyd wanted to take out a new interest rate product. As I said, I cant fairly 
look into issues that Mr and Mrs R hadnt previously raised with Wave.
Wave said its records didnt demonstrate that Mr and Mrs R made many attempts to call it. It 
did accept they were on hold during one call for a long time and offered £75 compensation. I 
think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
What happens now?
Mr and Mrs R invested in a property which is now valued at less than they paid for it. The 
property might not sell for enough to clear the outstanding mortgage balance. Interest rates 
have increased and Mr and Mrs R say the rental income from the property no longer covers 
the mortgage payments. Mrs R has been diagnosed with a serious health condition, and I 
can understand that Mr and Mrs R would like this matter resolved in a way that provides 
some certainty. They might consider taking independent financial advice about their options.
While I sympathise with the difficult position that Mr and Mrs R are in, what I need to decide 
is whether Wave made an error or treated them unfairly. Having carefully considered the 
matter, I dont think Wave made an error or treated Mr and Mrs R unfairly so as to make it 
fair and reasonable to require it to take further steps in relation to this complaint. I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to require it to allow Mr and Mrs R to redeem the mortgage for less 
than the outstanding balance, refund fees paid in 2007, pay further compensation, or extend 
the mortgage term.  
My final decision
My decision is that Wave Lending Limited should pay £75 to Mr and Mrs R, as it offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman