DRN-3198542
The complaint
Mr J complains Clydesdale Bank Plc gave him misleading information when applying for a 
loan. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Clydesdale accepted they incorrectly told Mr J his first loan application wouldnt 
impact his credit file. To put things right, they removed the searches from Mr Js 
credit file and paid him £150. This is in line with what I would have asked Clydesdale 
to pay in recognition of the frustration and inconvenience Mr J experienced after 
seeing the search on his credit file. Because of this, I wont be asking them to do 
anything further regarding this point.
One of the reasons Mr Js loan application was declined was due to the purpose of 
the loan, and he was told this when his application was declined. However, he 
experienced some confusion when Clydesdales final response letter said he could 
make another loan application if he still wanted a loan with them. While Mr J was 
already aware Clydesdale werent prepared to offer him borrowing for the reason he 
needed the loan, having read the final response letter, I can understand why Mr J 
may have felt Clydesdale were still prepared to consider his application. So, when Mr 
Js following application was declined, I can see why he would have been frustrated 
by this outcome, and the fact he had another search noted on his credit file.
While I accept Clydesdale could have provided Mr J with clearer information. I cant 
agree theyre responsible for the assurances Mr J made to family members, and 
other parties when he took steps and made plans to start spending the loan before it 
had been accepted. Mr J was told he could make another application, not that his 
application had been accepted, or that an acceptance of his application was 
guaranteed. So, while Mr J may have spoken to a number of different advisors at 
Clydesdale who said he could make a loan application for his specific purpose, I cant 
ignore the fact he was always told he could apply  and when thinking about the 
general meaning of that word, I dont consider a reasonable person could conclude 
the desired outcome was guaranteed.
  
Putting things right
Because of the above, I dont consider it would be reasonable to ask Clydesdale to 
compensate Mr J for the costs and inconvenience he experienced when he started to 
spend the loan before his application had been accepted. However, had Clydesdale 
provide sufficiently clear information, I think its unlikely Mr J would have made 
another loan application  and in turn, wouldnt have had another search added to his 
credit file. For that reason, Im asking Clydesdale to remove the last search from 
Mr Js credit file. 
It also would have been frustrating for Mr J to have to question what he could use the 
loan for on a number of occasions, and to see another search on his credit report 
despite his efforts to prevent his applications having a negative impact on his score. 
Because of this, I consider the £75 Clydesdale offered in recognition of this mistake 
is in line with what I would have awarded had they not already acknowledged their 
mistake.
For these reasons, I uphold Mr Js complaint  albeit not quite in the way he had hoped.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Js complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc.
To put things right, Clydesdale Bank Plc should remove the third credit search added to 
Mr Js credit file.
Clydesdale Bank has already made an offer to pay £75 in recognition of the confusion and 
inconvenience their mistake caused, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, 
my decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc should also pay Mr J the £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman