DRN-2848972
The complaint
Mrs T complains about how Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) dealt with 
a claim under her income protection insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs T was insured under a group income protection insurance policy taken out by her former
employer. L&G began making claim payments to Mrs T under the policy in 2012.
Mrs Ts former employer subsequently transferred its undertakings to another company on
the understanding that Mrs Ts income protection insurance policy would continue on the
same terms as previously agreed. Mrs T was dismissed from her employment in 2013 on the
grounds of medical capability.
L&G wrote to Mrs T at the time to say the claim payments under the policy would now be
paid to her directly. L&G said the payments would continue to be made in accordance with
the rules of the original income protection insurance policy, as long as Mrs T remained
totally incapacitated from following any occupation for which you are reasonably fitted by
reason of training, education or experience subject to evidence of continued incapacity
which would be required from time to time.
Later the same year, Mrs T received an email from L&G saying her claim had initially been
accepted under the own occupation policy definition of disability but this had changed to the
suited occupation definition of disability when she left her employment.
In 2015, L&G sent Mrs T a letter referring to the policy definition of disability as being
progressive (i.e. switching between own occupation, suited occupation and activities of
daily working). Mrs T complained to L&G, saying she understood her policy was on an own
occupation basis. L&G apologised and said there had been a system error, and that Mrs Ts
policy had always been held on a suited occupation definition of disability.
In late 2019, following requests from L&G for Mrs T to attend an independent medical
examination (IME) as part of a review of her ongoing claim, Mrs T brought a complaint to 
our service. L&G subsequently stopped paying Mrs Ts income protection insurance claim
with effect from December 2019. L&G said it had been trying to arrange an IME for Mrs T
since May 2019 and it was terminating the claim because Mrs T had delayed in producing
satisfactory evidence of her entitlement to a benefit. It said if Mrs T had any new or relevant
medical information then she could send this to it.
L&G later sent Mrs T a final response letter saying it hadnt been provided with any medical
evidence in support of Mrs Ts continued inability to work, and it hadnt been given a
reasonable opportunity to obtain medical evidence despite repeatedly requesting that Mrs T
attend an IME. L&G said it would consider reinstating Mrs Ts benefits if an IME supported
her continued inability to work in a suited occupation, from the date the booking of the IME
was confirmed.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said she didnt think this service had
the power to look into Mrs Ts complaint about whether her policy definition of disability had
changed from own occupation to suited occupation, as she didnt think that part of the
complaint had been brought to us within the time-limits set out under our rules. In relation to
L&Gs decision to stop paying Mrs Ts claim, our investigator said she didnt think L&G had
acted unfairly.
Mrs T didnt agree with our investigators opinions, so the complaint was passed to me
to decide.
I made my provisional decision about Mrs Ts complaint in May 2021. In it, I said:
The policy definition of disability  our jurisdiction
Our investigator didnt think this service had the power to consider Mrs Ts complaint about
whether her policy definition of disability had changed from own occupation to suited
occupation because this aspect of the complaint hadnt been made within the time-limits set
out under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules.
DISP 2.8.2(2) says the Financial Ombudsman Service cannot consider a complaint if it is
referred to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other
record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limitswas as
a result of exceptional circumstances; or
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint
The event complained about here is whether the policy definition of disability under which
Mrs Ts claim was assessed changed when she left her employment in 2013. Mrs T
complained to L&G about this matter in April 2015 and received a written response from
L&G. This was within six years of 2013. So, Im satisfied Mrs T referred her complaint to the
respondent business within the time-limits set out under DISP 2.8.2(2).
This means I think the Financial Ombudsman Service has the power to consider the merits
of Mrs Ts complaint relating to whether the policy definition of disability changed during her
claim.
The policy definition of disability  the merits of Mrs Ts complaint
While Mrs T is eligible to benefit under the terms of this group income protection insurance
policy, she isnt the policyholder. The policyholder is her former employer. The fact that Mrs
T received claim payments directly from L&G after her employment ended in 2013 doesnt
change this. I understand Mrs T repeatedly asked L&G for a copy of the policy terms and
conditions. L&G said it couldnt send her these documents and instead directed her to her
former employer.I can understand Mrs Ts frustration with L&Gs position and why it might have been difficult
for Mrs T to approach her former employer. But L&Gs contract isnt with Mrs T directly  its
with Mrs Ts former employer, so I cant reasonably conclude that L&G should have done
anything differently. If Mrs T wanted a copy of the income protection insurance policy terms
and conditions and/or the policy schedule to clarify for herself what cover she held then
shed need to have contacted her former employer to ask for these documents.
I cant comment on any information that may have been given to Mrs T by her former
employer about the cover available under the group income protection insurance policy, or
on any dispute between Mrs T and her former employer about the terms of her original
contract of employment. These are issues which Mrs T would need to raise with her former
employer directly. My role is to look at the evidence available about the benefits provided to
Mrs T under this insurance policy and to decide whether I think L&G provided Mrs T with
incorrect information about her entitlements.
L&G originally told our investigator that Mrs Ts benefits under the policy changed from own
occupation to suited occupation in 2013. However, I asked L&G to provide me with further
evidence about the policy Mrs T held and Ive now been provided with a copy of the
schedule for this policy, accepted by L& G in November 2009 and dated July 2011.
This policy schedule shows the policyholder as Mrs Ts former employer. The policy
schedule confirms that the category of employees which Mrs T fell into were insured on a
disability definition of suited occupation.
Ive also been provided with a copy of the terms and conditions of Mrs Ts former employers
insurance policy. These define own occupation as where:
the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from
performing the essential duties of his occupation.
Suited occupation is defined as where;
the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury so that he is unable to
undertake any occupation which we consider appropriate to his experience, training
or education.
Ive seen a letter which L&G wrote to Mrs T in June 2013, after her employment ended. This
says:
The benefit payable will continue to be paid in accordance with the rules of
theGroup Income Protection Insurance Policy, provided that you remain totally
incapacitated from following any occupation for which you are reasonably fitted by
reason of training, education or experienced
This letter confirms that the benefits payable to Mrs T are paid based on the definition of
suited occupation.
Based on the policy schedule which Ive now been provided with and the letter referenced
above, Im satisfied that Mrs T was originally insured on a suited occupation basis and that
this continued when Mrs T left her employment in 2013.
Theres no doubt that L&G provided contradictory information to Mrs T about the policy she
was insured under. L&G incorrectly told Mrs T in November 2013 that her policy was held on
an own occupation definition of disability and, in 2015, incorrectly said the policy was on aprogressive definition of disability. I dont think this was helpful to Mrs T in understanding
how the policy worked and what benefits she was entitled to under it. However, I note L&G
apologised to Mrs T for its errors in this regard.
Mrs T has mentioned former colleagues of hers who are involved in legal action, but this has
no relevance to whether I think L&G has done anything wrong or acted unreasonably
regarding her own claim under this policy. When making a decision about this case, my remit
is to consider only the circumstances of Mrs Ts individual complaint.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mrs Ts insurance cover continued on the
same suited occupation terms as the original cover when her former employer transferred
its undertakings to another company in 2013, and that L&G paid Mrs Ts claim on this basis
from 2012 until 2019.
Mrs T has also said that the claim payments made by L&G didnt increase as they should
have. The policy schedule for the category of employees which Mrs T fell into doesnt make
any provision for the benefits paid under the policy to increase.
Termination of the claim
I understand Mrs T says her contract of employment with her former employer guaranteed
her certain rights but, as Ive already explained, this is something which Mrs T would need to
take up with her former employer and isnt a matter which I can investigate. My role is to
decide whether I think L&G acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances by ending
Mrs Ts claim when it did.
Im not aware of any income protection insurance policy on the market that provides
unlimited cover. All insurance policies are subject to terms, conditions and exclusions, and
income protection insurance policies are intended to provide a benefit only if the member is
unable to work because they are incapacitated by illness or injury.
In order for a member to make a valid income protection insurance claim, they must
demonstrate that they meet the policy definition of incapacity and are unable to work
because of an illness which they themselves suffer from. L&G was satisfied that Mrs T met
this definition when it accepted her claim in 2012 and I note Mrs T provided medical
evidence from her GP in support of her claim in March 2013.
However, this doesnt mean L&G is obliged to pay Mrs Ts claim indefinitely. L&G is entitled
to ask for medical evidence to satisfy itself that Mrs T remains unable to work in any suited
occupation at reasonable intervals. If L&G can demonstrate that theres no longer any
medical evidence that Mrs T is unable to work due to illness or injury, L&G can fairly
terminate her claim.
I understand L&G continued to pay Mrs Ts claim from 2013 until early 2019 without
requesting further medical evidence or an IME. L&G did this having reviewed Mrs Ts
completed continuation statements and being satisfied with their contents. However, the
fact that L&G didnt request up-to-date medical evidence or an IME in previous years didnt
prevent it from doing so in 2019. L&G made Mrs T aware on a number of occasions from
2013 onwards that her claim was subject to ongoing review and that medical evidence of
continued incapacity may be required.
After receiving Mrs Ts completed continuation statement in April 2019, L&G noted she
hadnt seen her psychiatrist since 2012, hadnt seen her GP since August 2018 and wasnt
receiving any treatment for her medical conditions (although Mrs T was taking natural
remedies). L&G therefore decided to ask Mrs T to attend an IME.I understand Mrs T has explained why she is unable to work, and Im sorry to hear about the
difficulties she has faced and the circumstances she is in, but its not unreasonable for an
insurer to require contemporaneous evidence from a qualified medical professional
confirming why a person is unable to work on an ongoing basis. Mrs Ts challenging
personal circumstances alone do not entitle her to an ongoing benefit under the policy  an
ongoing benefit is only payable if there is medical evidence to support her continued inability
to work due to her own illness.
Given the limited medical evidence available confirming Mrs Ts ongoing inability to work in
April 2019 and the information shed provided about her treatment and the dates of her last
psychiatrist and GP visits, I dont think L&Gs decision to refer Mrs T for an IME was unfair or
unreasonable in the circumstances.
L&G emailed Mrs T on 8 May 2019 and 17 May 2019 to say it required her to attend an IME.
L&G said, as Mrs T no longer lived in the UK, she should provide it with dates in the next
one to two months when she could return to the UK for it to arrange the IME. Mrs T replied to
L&G on 19 May 2019 to say she was in the UK at that time. On 21 May 2019, Mrs T
confirmed to L&G that she would be returning to her home abroad on 28 May 2019. Because
of the short timeframes involved, L&G was unable to arrange an IME before Mrs T left the
UK.
Following a delay when L&G was making what I think were reasonable enquiries with Mrs T
about her identity and bank details due to regulatory requirements, L&G contacted Mrs T
again about an IME on 22 August 2019. It asked if there was a time in the near future when
Mrs T was due to be in the UK so an IME could be arranged. Mrs T replied on 27 August
2019 to say she would be in the UK from 29 August 2019 to 10 September 2019. Following
correspondence between Mrs T and L&G about the nature of her visit and where shed be
staying, L&G was again unable to arrange for an IME to take place due to the short
timeframe available to it.
L&G emailed Mrs T again on 29 November 2019. It said it needed sufficient notice to
arrange an IME when Mrs T was next in the UK. It asked for a time when Mrs T would be in
the UK, the area shed be in and said it would need four weeks notice to arrange an IME.
L&G sent a further email to Mrs T requesting the same information on 8 January 2020. Mrs T
replied to say she had no plans to return to the UK but would advise L&G of any plans to do
so in the future.
At that point, L&G decided to terminate Mrs Ts claim and sent her a letter on 30 January
2020 to say her last benefit payment was paid on 18 December 2019. A copy of the letter
was sent to Mrs T by email on 3 February 2020.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ts policy allow L&G to stop paying a benefit under the
policy if there is a delay on the part of the member in producing evidence in support of their
claim.
I note Mrs T hasnt ever refused to undergo an IME and that she was prepared to do so if
L&G could arrange one in both May and August/September 2019. Mrs Ts inability to
undergo an IME on these occasions was due to L&Gs inability to organise the examination.
But I dont think this was due to any failings on the part of L&G, given the short notice it had
that Mrs T was in the UK at those times. However, L&G was made aware that Mrs T had
moved abroad in 2016. I think it could have been clearer in its communications with Mrs T
about the IME prior to November 2019 about what the process would involve and how much
notice it would require to arrange an IME. But L&G clearly told Mrs T in November 2019
about the information and notice it needed.Ive seen no medical evidence that Mrs T was unable to work in a suited occupation due to
her own illness after December 2019. Mrs T hadnt seen her psychiatrist and/or GP in recent
times before completing the continuation statement in April 2019, so L&G was unable to
approach these professionals for up-to-date medical evidence confirming if and why Mrs T
remained unable to work due to her illness. L&G is unable to make a referral for an IME in
the country where Mrs T now lives, nor would I necessarily expect it to be able to do so, and
I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to require Mrs T to come back to the UK to
undergo an IME. I also dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to terminate Mrs Ts claim
from December 2019 in circumstances where Mrs T was unable to confirm when  if ever 
she intended to return to the UK to undergo an IME.
I understand the circumstances surrounding Covid-19 mean Mrs T may have been limited in
her ability to travel back to the UK throughout 2020. But this doesnt change my decision that
L&G hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by terminating her claim.
Mrs T has the option to provide new medical information confirming her ongoing inability to
work in a suited occupation due to her illness to L&G if she so wishes, and L&G has offered
to reinstate her claim from the date an IME is booked, if one can be arranged (subject to the
IME supporting Mrs Ts continued absence from work due to her own illness).
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T but I dont think L&G has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the
circumstances and I dont intend to direct L&G to do anything further.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
L&G responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mrs T 
replied to my provisional decision and, in summary, said: 
the circumstances surrounding her complaint all stem from a botched transfer of 
undertakings between her former employers, partly due to incorrect information 
provided by L&G at the outset;
her original policy with L&G was on an own occupation basis, this is clearly 
described in her policy and the policy definition only ever changed to progressive 
occupation for certain groups;
the policy definition could not have changed without a consultation process with the 
employees;
L&G sent Mrs T a letter stating that the policy was originally accepted under an own 
occupation definition;
she wants to be put back on a policy definition of own occupation. 
Mrs T also provided the following documents:
a policy schedule dated 1 December 2012 referring to all eligible employees being 
insured on a standard definition of incapacity;
an undated copy of the policy terms and conditions for the group income protection 
insurance scheme containing an endorsement from 1 September 2012 replacing an 
(unknown) existing definition of disability with an own occupation definition;
correspondence dated 2012 and 2013 relating to the transfer of undertakings 
between Mrs Ts former employers and the implementation of a progressive 
definition of disability for certain groups of employees. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the new information which Mrs T has provided, but her membership of the 
group insurance policy pre-dated September/December 2012, so I dont think these 
documents demonstrate that Mrs T originally held an own occupation policy. 
As I explained in my provisional findings, I think the information L&G gave to Mrs T in 2013 
about being insured on an own occupation basis was incorrect. Overall, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I remain satisfied that Mrs T was most likely always insured by L&G on a 
suited occupation definition. 
In any event, even if I were to accept that Mrs T should be insured on an own occupation 
basis, this wouldnt change my decision that L&G hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
terminating her claim.  
If Mrs T has any concerns about the terms of the transfer of undertakings  or about any 
incorrect information given to her by her former employer(s) - then shed need to take this up 
directly with her former employer(s). L&G isnt responsible for these issues. 
Overall, this means I wont be changing my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman