DRN-4348142
The complaint
Mr G thought Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (WIC) unfairly declined his 
claim and cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G made a claim when he reversed into a third-party vehicle. When WIC validated the 
claim, it determined Mr G had misrepresented his occupation when renewing his policy. WIC 
declined his claim and cancelled his policy.
Mr G thought this was unfair. He said he was a van driver when he took out the insurance  
when he renewed his policy he didnt notify WIC of a change in occupation. Mr Gs new role 
was working as a chef for a catering company providing services to the film industry. He 
didnt think this presented his insurer with any greater risk.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought Mr G had made a careless 
misrepresentation. He thought WIC should re-instate the policy reflecting Mr Gs correct 
occupation as a chef  he thought WIC should re-consider the claim under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. WIC disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision on this on 4 September 2023. I said:
WIC declined the claim and cancelled the policy due to a misrepresentation, so I have 
considered the merits of this complaint from this perspective.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
So, Ive considered Mr Gs circumstances in respect to CIDRA.
Was there a misrepresentation?
I think WIC has been fair in saying there was a misrepresentation. Mr G has acknowledged 
this. He didnt inform WIC when his job changed, so this was a misrepresentation  he 
couldve done this mid-term or when his policy was renewed. But he failed to update WIC on 
both occasions.
Did the consumer take reasonable care?
I dont think Mr G did show reasonable care. The policy clearly sets out that any changes in 
personal circumstances should be communicated to WIC. When Mr G renewed his policy he 
was asked if there were any changes, but he didnt notify WIC.
Did it make a difference to WIC?
WIC has argued the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. At the time of the accident, Mr 
G wasnt working as a van driver he was working for a catering company who specifically 
provided food for the film industry.
WIC has said if it had known Mr Gs new occupation it wouldnt have insured him. This is 
important. If WIC can show it wouldnt have insured somebody who works in catering within 
the film industry, then Id say it wouldve been fair in declining the claim and cancelling the 
policy.
WIC has shared its underwriting criteria. It says this proves it wouldnt have insured Mr G 
had it known. Ive checked the underwriting criteria and it says it wouldnt insure somebody 
who works in film manufacturing, film processing, film production or films. WIC has said it 
wouldnt insure anyone who worked in the film industry  theyve used the example as a 
cameraman that they wouldnt insure.
It may have been WICs intention not to insure anyone related (in any capacity) to the film 
industry, but I dont think its underwriting criteria is clear on this point. Mr G is currently 
working for a catering company as a chef. The position isnt a permanent one, the catering 
company is able to terminate the contract without reason with two weeks notice period.
I think a more appropriate categorisation of role for Mr G would be chef or catering. So, 
whilst I appreciate it may make a difference to the terms WIC may have offered, I dont think 
its fair to say Mr G worked in the film industry, so I dont think its fair it has said it wouldnt 
have offered him a policy. I dont think the underwriting criteria supports this statement. 
However, it is a qualifying misrepresentation, as insuring a chef could have a different risk 
associated to it compared to a van driver.
Was the misrepresentation deliberate or reckless, or careless?
I dont think Mr G has tried to mislead WIC. I think he just didnt check his policy details at 
the time of renewal and probably wasnt aware of the importance of updating all details. 
Therefore, I would say Mr G was careless in making the misrepresentation. However, as Mr 
G wasnt reckless, I uphold this complaint.
What remedy is available to WIC given there has been a claim?
As the qualifying misrepresentation was careless, and WIC hasnt said that it wouldnt have 
offered the policy to individuals who are chefs or in catering, I intend WIC to re-instate the 
policy. It needs to consider whether the policy terms wouldve been different for Mr G as a 
chef / caterer. It should then re-consider the claim against these terms (not as if he was in 
the film industry).
I think the impact of WICs decision on Mr G would have been significant. Hes said how the 
financial consequences hes been facing has placed unnecessary pressure on him and its 
impacted his wellbeing. The whole situation will have inconvenienced him and used up his time. Therefore, I intend WIC pay Mr G £400 in compensation, for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr G accepted my provisional decision. He didnt have anything further to add.
WIC disagreed with my provisional decision. It has explained again the company which Mr G 
was contracted to provided catering services specifically to the film industry.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont feel WIC has provided any new information. As I said in my provisional decision, I 
think catering is a better description of the business Mr G carries out. I dont think the 
underwriting criteria WIC has provided is specific enough to say it wouldnt have offered 
insurance. Therefore, I dont see any reason to change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company Europe 
Limited to:
Re-instate the policy from the start of the term
Consider the claim in line with the revised terms and conditions of the policy 
appropriate to a chef / caterer
Pay Mr G £400 compensation*  for distress and inconvenience.
* Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it that Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman