DRN-1557953
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the chargeback he raised with Santander UK Plc regarding 
cancelled flights.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme. When a customer raises a 
chargeback claim we think it good practice for the chargeback to be raised if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success. Chargebacks are decided based on the card 
schemes rules and there are specific timetables involved and so in in this case I 
have considered the actions of Santander in response to Mr Bs claim. 
Mr B booked a holiday (airline tickets and accommodation) for him and a family 
member through a travel site using his credit card. The outbound flight was delayed 
and then cancelled. Alternative flights were provided at no cost to him the following 
day. The airline offered compensation but then went into administration before Mr B 
received this. 
Mr B raised his complaint with Santander, and it sent him documentation to 
complete. Mr B did this, and a temporary credit was applied to his account. 
Santander sent Mr B a letter explaining that the credit had been made and that the 
retailer had 45 days in which to investigate the claim and provide further evidence. 
These are the actions we would expect Santander to take at this time. 
The letter also said that if other information became available it may debit Mr Bs 
account. Therefore, I find that Santander was clear that the credit could be reversed 
in the event of the claim being defended.
Further information was provided from the retailer and I think Santander acted 
reasonably by sending Mr B a letter enclosing the information and giving him 14 days 
to respond to say if he still disputed the payments. The letter explained that if it didnt 
receive a response within the 14 days it would be taken that Mr B no longer wanted 
to continue with the dispute. 
Mr B didnt respond to the letter. While I appreciate the comments made about him 
believing that the receipt of the refund was the end of the process, given the letter he 
received in November about the retailer having time to investigate and the letter 
providing the information received, I think Santander gave Mr B enough information 
to be aware that the refund wasnt final and that he needed to respond for his claim 
to continue.
Santander provided further information regarding the timescales for the chargeback 
scheme. As it didnt receive a response from Mr B within the required timeframe the 
credit that had been applied was reversed. I find this reasonable.
As Santander raised Mr Bs claim and then informed him about the claim being 
defended, I do not find I can say it has done anything wrong in this case. I 
sympathise with Mr B as although his flights were rebooked, he missed time out of 
his holiday which he was told he would be compensated for, but this then didnt 
happen. But as I do not find that Santander did anything wrong by reversing the 
credit that had been applied, and I note that Mr B received replacement flights at no 
extra cost, I do not require Santander to do anything further regarding this complaint.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman