DRN-1163712
The complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt do enough when trying to trace the 
other driver, following an accident, leading to him having a fault claim registered against his 
policy and leaving him out of pocket.
What happened
A foreign lorry struck Mr S car while on a roundabout. Mr S pulled over, but the other driver 
didnt. Mr S chased and caught up with the other driver further down the road but due to the 
language barrier they didnt exchange details. Mr S did get the registration of the lorry and 
the name of the company he says the lorry belonged to.
Mr S called UKI and gave them the details he had and registered his claim. Mr S said that 
the lorry was Polish, he also said that he did not believe he was at fault for the accident.
UKI explained that it maybe difficult with such a little amount of information to try and trace 
the other driver, but it would contact the Motor Insurers Bureau (MIB).
UKI found that Mr S had some motoring convictions it was unaware of and so it didnt begin 
dealing with Mr S claim until it had resolved this matter with him. Once this had been 
addressed UKI contacted the MIB to help trace the lorry driver. The MIB told UKI that it had 
been unable to trace the vehicle based on the information provided, it also told UKI the 
Polish Bureau had told it this vehicle was not registered in Poland.
UKI found the company that Mr S had said the lorry belonged to and sent an email via its 
website to ask it to provide insurance details. The company didnt respond.
In the meantime, UKI dealt with the repairs to Mr S car, he opted to use his own garage and 
paid the excess due.
As UKI was unable to recover the cost of the claim from any other party, the claim was 
recorded as a fault one against Mr S policy. 
Mr S complained to UKI he felt it was unfair that he had to pay an excess and have a fault 
claim on his policy when he wasnt to blame for the accident. He said he felt UKI couldve 
done more to deal with matters and shouldve contacted both the UK and Polish police 
forces to help to resolve this.
UKI didnt agree it felt it had done everything it needed to and said the claim would remain a 
fault one. Mr S was unhappy with this and so brought his case to this service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr S case, he felt that UKI had acted fairly when dealing with 
the claim. Mr S disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I havent considered it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
The undisclosed motoring convictions issue did not form part of Mr S complaint and so I 
have not considered this as part of my decision.
I understand Mr S strength of feeling that he was not to blame for the accident, and feel it 
might be helpful to explain here, the term fault in an insurance claim does not refer to blame. 
It means an insurer has not been able to recover the cost of the claim from any other party, 
which in this case it hadnt been able to as it was unable to trace them.
My role here is not to determine where liability rests in a claim, but to make sure that the 
insurer has acted fairly when deciding to accept liability or record a claim as a fault one. In 
this case it comes down to if UKI did enough to trace the foreign driver, and I think it did, Ill 
explain.
I think its important to set out here, for Mr S benefit, that when there is an accident with a 
foreign vehicle, insurers pass the details to MIB and they in turn provide details of the foreign 
insurers UK agent. Its this agent that the UK insurer (in this case UKI) then deals with to 
settle the claim. This is standard practice across the motor insurance industry.
In order to trace the vehicle and insurer the MIB needs various information, the more 
information it is provided with the easier it is to trace the vehicle. UKI provided MIB with all 
the information it had but unfortunately this wasnt enough to trace the vehicle. 
UKI tried to contact the company that Mr S said the lorry belonged to, but it didnt engage, 
leaving UKI no alternative but to deal with the claim under Mr S policy.
As the MIB told UKI the lorry was not registered in Poland, it could mean Mr S made a 
mistake when taking down the registration number or that the lorry wasnt Polish and was in 
fact from another country. There was no other information available to UKI to help in tracing 
the lorry and so I dont think it could be reasonably expected to do more than it already had.
Based on this I think UKI acted fairly in closing the claim as a fault one as it had no real 
prospect of recovering its costs.
As Mr S excess is an uninsured loss it would normally be something he would have to claim 
back from the other party, separately from the insurance claim. Although it is common for 
insurers offer to do this as part of the claim if they are recovering their own costs. But as 
there is no traceable other party Mr S will have to pay the excess as its not something that 
UKI is liable for.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with UKI can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman