DRN-4257416
The complaint
Mr J complains that Shop Direct Finance Company (Shop Direct) irresponsibly gave him 
two revolving credit accounts that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr J applied for a revolving credit account with Shop Direct. He was 
given an initial credit limit of £600. The credit limit was increased once to £900 in August 
2019. 
In February 2019, Mr J applied for a second revolving credit account with Shop Direct. He 
was given an initial credit limit of £600. The credit limit was increased once to £900 in 
October 2019. 
In 2023, Mr J complained to Shop Direct to say that the revolving credit accounts 
shouldnt have been opened for him because they werent affordable and that Shop Direct 
ought to have made a better effort to understand his financial circumstances before 
providing him with credit. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr J didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Js complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. Its 
possible that Shop Direct failed to make adequate checks before providing Mr J with 
credit. But even if thats true, I have seen insufficient evidence to think better enquiries 
would have caused Shop Direct to think the revolving credit accounts were unaffordable. 
It is not straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mr J has not been able to 
provide bank statements from the time in question. And I have not had sight of any credit 
information from the times. So, I have no way of knowing the volume of any credit Mr J 
may have had or how Mr J was managing any existing credit he had at the time the 
lending decisions were made. 
I have considered the monthly repayments in the data that Shop direct has provided. I 
have seen insufficient evidence of financial hardship in the way Mr J was managing his 
accounts up to the last credit limit increase. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr J to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Shop Direct to think that the credit it 
provided Mr J was unreasonable. 
I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have not seen sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman