DRN-2876924
The complaint
Miss V complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited is responsible for poor service in
connection with a home insurance policy.
  
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one regulated
financial firm at a time. Where its a complaint about a claim on an insurance policy, we
usually deal with it as a complaint against the insurance company that was responsible for
dealing with that claim.
One Call is an intermediary who Miss V used to arrange her home insurance policy. One
Call also offered Miss V a home emergency service.
Early on Monday 11 November 2019, Miss V noticed an unpleasant smell of sewage in her
home. She was concerned for her young baby. She called for help under the home 
emergency service. The service provider twice said it was sending an engineer, but it didnt.
The next day, Miss V called another company which fixed the problem. One Calls service
provider reimbursed Miss V for the other companys invoice the same day.
A couple of weeks later, Miss V complained to One Call. Miss V brought her complaint to us
in April 2020.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that it
wouldve been appropriate for One Call to compensate Miss V for the service she received
and the avoidable delays caused. He recommended that One Call should pay Miss V £75.00
compensation.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss V 
and to One Call on 18 May 2021. I summarise my findings:
I held One Call responsible for the poor service and for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused Miss V.
Subject to any further information from Miss V or from One Call, my provisional decision was 
that I upheld this complaint. I intended to direct One Call Insurance Services Limited to pay 
Miss V £75.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Neither Miss V nor One Call has responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason 
to change my view. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not satisfied that One Call has fully cooperated with our investigation or provided the
relevant documents. 
That said, the Financial Ombudsman Service is not the regulator and we do not have power 
to punish a financial firm. Rather, our role is to consider whether the firm is responsible for 
doing something wrong and, if so, to direct the firm to pay compensation or take other steps 
to put right the effect on the consumer.
Miss V has sent us the home insurance policy schedule for the year from December 2018.
From that, I find that the home insurance company wasnt responsible for any home 
emergency service.
On 11 November 2019, Miss V clearly believed she was entitled to a home emergency
service. One Call hasnt disagreed with that - and its service provider has reimbursed Miss V
for the invoice she received.
But One Call hasnt provided enough documents or explanations about the home emergency
service.
The most informative documents are a One Call letter and notice dated late November 2019
relating to the renewal in December 2019 for a premium of about £450.00. That letter 
postdates the events of 11 and 12 November 2019. But  in the absence of any other 
documents or explanations from One Call  I find it likely that the letter reflected the position 
that had existed since December 2018.
From the letter and notice, I see that One Call had arranged the home insurance cover. It
had also arranged free legal cover and a free home emergency service. I find it likely that
One Call was making a distinction between insurance cover and the home emergency
service.
But - in the absence of any other documents or explanations from One Call - I find that One
Call failed to provide Miss V with proper information about the nature and details of the home
emergency service. For that reason, I find it fair and reasonable to hold One Call responsible 
for the poor experience that Miss V had when she tried to access the home emergency 
service.
I accept that she had a bad smell coming into the house from a blocked manhole outside.
But Miss V hasnt said that she had to stop using the drains.
One Call hasnt provided call recordings. So I accept Miss Vs statements that she 
mentioned the baby, but she had to make multiple calls to find out when the engineer was
expected. She waited for an engineer who didnt arrive  while she missed a class that
evening. And one of the agents in particular spoke to her in a rude manner and lacked
empathy and respect.
The effect on Miss V was that she didnt feel able to keep calling. So she was left waiting
overnight. The next day, One Call said it couldnt find an engineer. So Miss V had to spend
time finding another company that could do the job.
Putting things right
Miss V received prompt reimbursement. But I hold One Call responsible for the poor serviceand for the distress and inconvenience it caused Miss V. I agree with the investigator that
£75.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for this. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct One 
Call Insurance Services Limited to pay Miss V £75.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman