DRN-3279652
The complaint
Mr S complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as Lloyds Bank Direct 
Investments (HSDL), sold nil paid right shares he held for substantially less than he 
expected.
What happened
Mr S held a number of shares in a company I will call H. They were held in a nominee 
account with HSDL. When company H told HSDL of a corporate action, HSDL posted 
a notification on Mr S account on 29 May. HSDL received a telephone call from Mr S 
the same day. In this call Mr S asked for the amount he would get if he sold his nil paid 
rights. HSDL were unable to tell Mr S but did explain the price would be the best price 
available at the time the deal was executed. This information was also within the 
notification HSDL had posted. Mr S pressed HSDL for a figure and they said they 
would call him back.
Mr S went on-line selected the option to sell his nil paid rights at 15:56 the same day. 
HSDL attempted to call Mr S at 17:08 but the call wasnt successful. And on 1 June, Mr 
S nil paid rights were sold.
On 3 June, Mr S went on-line and made a second election. However, the option to sell 
the nil paid rights had already been executed.
Mr S complained to HSDL the price he received for his nil paid rights was less than he 
believed it would be. And that he would have chosen to fully take up his rights and 
purchase 7,805 shares if hed known how much he would be paid. HSDL didnt uphold 
Mr S complaint. They said that by 3 June Mr S election to sell the nil paid rights had 
been executed. HSDL accepted theyd given Mr S some confusing information, which 
led to him assuming his second election would happen. HSDL offered Mr S £200 to 
reflect the loss of expectation this caused him at the time.
Mr S didnt accept the offer from HSDL, and he brought his complaint to our Service. 
One of our investigators looked into things for Mr S and, based on a limited amount of 
evidence at the time, thought it likely Mr S would have taken up his rights to purchase 
at least some of his 7,805 shares. And, to put things right, HSDL should:
 Recover the £1,654.47 Mr S received from the sale of his 7,805 nil paid rights;
 Purchase 3,850 shares in H. This should cost Mr S no more than £2,656.50;
 Calculate the amount of money the sale of 3,955 nil paid rights would have 
raised on 3 June 2020 and pay this to Mr S; and,
 If the offered £200 hasnt already been paid, pay this money to Mr S to make 
up for the trouble and upset he experienced.
HSDL didnt accept what our Investigator said and requested an ombudsman decides 
the complaint.
As I reached a different conclusion to our Investigator I issued a provisional decision. I 
asked Mr S and HSDL to provide any furher comments by 25 January 2022. In my 
provisional decision I said:
I understand Mr S will be disappointed, but Ive reached a significantly different 
conclusion to the Investigator. I will now explain why.
Ive listened to a telephone call Mr S provided between his mother and HSDL on 29 
May at about 15:43. In this call, Mr S mother, who also held shares in company H 
with HSDL, was mistakenly told by HSDL that the nil paid rights will be sold at 69p, or 
slightly more or slightly less. HSDL accept they provided the wrong information in this 
call, as there was no such information in the rights issue. Mr S says he was in the 
same room as his mother and he used that information to decide to exercise his 
option to sell his nil paid rights. I cant say whether Mr S was in the room or not, but it 
seems likely he was listening to the call as he completed his trade at 15:56, shortly 
after this call ended.
Ive noted the comments from HSDL that the person they were speaking to on this 
call may not have been Mr S mother, but it seems to me HSDL had completed 
verification as they proceeded to discuss the options with the caller. However, 
regardless of this, Ive decided I will give more weight to other evidence Ive been 
provided with and I wont be relying solely on this telephone call.
HSDL placed a notification on Mr S on-line account telling him of the corporate 
action. In response, Mr S called HSDL. Ive now been able to listen to this telephone 
call, which wasnt available when our Investigator looked into things. In this call, Im 
satisfied HSDL read out the options. Mr S told HSDL he understood the options but 
only called them to ask what he would be paid for the nil paid rights. HSDL didnt deal 
with the call very well. Mr S spent nearly 30 minutes on the telephone trying to get an 
answer to his question. However, HSDL did eventually say they would call Mr S back 
with the information he wanted. And Ive seen they attempted the call back the same 
day but werent able to speak with Mr S.
In between this call and the call back, Mr S says he heard the call HSDL had with his 
mother. And, based on what he heard, he decided to exercise his option to sell his nil 
paid rights at or around 69p.
When Mr S went on-line and exercised his option, he was provided with the 
conditions that would apply to the rights issue before he made his decision. These 
made it clear the nil paid rights would be sold the next working day and the price 
would be the best price available at execution. So, I consider that regardless of 
whether Mr S heard the specific details of the call, he would reasonably have been 
aware there was no price guarantee. And that the execution date was the next 
working day, which in this case was 1 June. I dont consider its fair and reasonable 
in these circumstances for Mr S to rely solely on a third-party conversation, or that I 
should give it as much weight as the on-line notifications Mr S was provided with 
before he made his election. Im also mindful that the service offered by HSDL is an 
execution only service and that HSDL provided the information they were required to. 
Mr S still had time to read the conditions of the execution or wait for HSDL to call him 
back to clarify the conditions. He elected to proceed before HSDL had been able to 
clarify there was no price guarantee.
Ive seen an email HSDL sent Mr S, dated 2 June, that confirmed theyd cancelled 
the nil paid rights election. However, this election had already been executed.In respect of the second election made by Mr S on 3 June, I can see this led to some 
confusion. In a call to HSDL on 1 June Mr S was told the first election would 
complete later that day. But when Mr S logged into his account and likely saw hed 
been paid less than he expected, he was still able to submit a second execution. Im 
satisfied this would have caused Mr S some confusion as he expected the second 
election would supersede the first election. But the first one had already been 
executed by this time. So, although Mr S may have expected the second execution to 
supersede the first, this wasnt ever going to be the case.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr S elected to sell his nil paid rights and that this was 
executed on 1 June as HSDL told him it would. Although Mr S attempted to cancel or 
amend this election, he didnt do so until after it had been executed. It seems likely 
that he attempted to change his election when he saw he hadnt received the amount 
he thought he should. He then went on-line and received confirmation a second 
election was pending, but this couldnt supersede his previous election as this had 
already been executed.
So, I dont consider HSDL did anything wrong in executing the first election Mr S 
made in line with the terms and conditions. And HSDL didnt tell Mr S he would get 
around 69p for each share. However, subsequent to this trade, HSDL issued 
confirmation the first election had been cancelled, and they led Mr S to believe his 
second election was being processed. Im satisfied that this would have caused Mr S 
some confusion and led him to believed hed missed the opportunity of a second or 
amended election. HSDL offered to pay Mr S £200 to recognise the impact their 
errors had on him. And, because the second election could never have been 
completed, and therefore there is no loss in this regard, I consider the offer of £200 
was a fair and reasonable one.
HSDL responded to my provisional decisional and said they had no further comments. Mr S 
didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive had no further comments or additional evidence from Mr S nor HDSL to consider, Im 
satisfied that I can adopt my provisional decision as my final decision.
My final decision
Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as Lloyds Bank Direct Investments have already 
offered to pay Mr S £200 to settle the complaint and I think the offer is fair and reasonable in 
all of the circumstances. So, my decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as 
Lloyds Bank Direct Investments should pay Mr S £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman