DRN-3327671
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy with what Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) has agreed to do to put things right 
after he complained about the interest, fees and charges added to his overdraft.
Background
Ive separately explained why Im only able to look at the charges applied to Mr Ms account 
from August 2017 onwards. As this is the case, this decision is only looking whether BOS 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M from August 2017 onwards.
When the complaint was referred to us BOS agreed to refund all the interest, fees and 
charges added from March 2019 onwards  which is essentially all the charges applied from 
August 2017 as no interest, fees or charges were added to the account between August 
2017 and March 2019. Our adjudicator that what BOS had agreed to do to put things right 
was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the case. 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what BOS has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
BOS has agreed that it ought to have realised that it was unfair to continue charging Mr M 
for his overdraft in the way that it did from March 2019. And it has agreed to refund all the 
interest, fees and charges added it to Mr Ms overdraft from then in order to put things right. 
It also wants to remove the overdraft from Mr Ms account.
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what BOS has 
agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Mr M has been left with an outstanding balance even though the credits hes 
made to his account have been factored in and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees 
and charges applied from March 2019. So while Mr M has been left with an outstanding 
balance to repay and he might be unhappy with this, BOS has done what Id normally expect 
it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr M believes that BOS should do more. As I understand it, he says BOS told him the 
account would be closed and he thinks he should be refunded the transactions made. Ive 
thought about what Mr M has said. But Mr Ms account wasnt closed because he had an 
outstanding balance on it. And Ive not seen any formal correspondence indicating that this 
account was closed even though Mr M may have opened a separate basic bank account 
with BOS. 
Furthermore, it looks like Mr M initiated a new continuous payment authority on his debit 
card in November 2017. As far as I can see Mr M hasnt said that he didnt authorise the 
payments in question  if Mr M now believes this is the case than this is a matter he needs 
to take up with BOS and I make no finding on this matter in this decision. 
As Mr M doesnt appear to be disputing having authorised the payments in question  at this 
stage - and hes presumably had the benefit of the service, I dont think its unfair to expect 
him to pay back the amount he was lent to make these payments. This is especially as BOS 
has already refunded all of the interest, fees and charges it added and all Mr M is now left 
with to repay is his spend on the account.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what BOS has already done to put things right 
for Mr M  reworking his account so that all the interest, fees and charges added since 
March 2019 are removed  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and Im 
not requiring it to do anything more. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope that hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already done 
to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman