DRN-1508519
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Avon Insurance Plc lapsed their accidental death policies. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W each held an accidental death policy, which included hospital accident cover. 
In October 2010, they contacted Avon to change the direct debit details for both the policies. 
Avon attempted to collect the first premium in November 2010, but it was returned unpaid. 
Avon said it wrote to Mr and Mrs W to inform them of this, and explained that their cover 
would lapse if the payment wasnt made. As Mr and Mrs W didnt get back to Avon, the 
policies both lapsed.
In October 2018, Mr and Mrs W contacted Avon about their policies, and found out that the 
cover had lapsed in 2010. They were unhappy about this, as they said they didnt know that 
their cover had lapsed. They requested a refund of the premiums theyd paid for their 
policies since taking them out. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Avon had most 
likely told Mr and Mrs W that their cover would lapse if the missed payment wasnt made. He 
also pointed out that Mr and Mrs W hadnt paid any premiums since 2010. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms for both policies say:
2 Non-Payment of premiums.
One calendar months grace is allowed for the payment of any premium other than the first. 
If the Insured dies during the days of grace the amount of any outstanding premium will be 
deducted from the benefit payable. If the premium remains unpaid at the end of the days of 
grace the Policy will lapse.
And
3 Reinstatement of lapsed Policy.
Reinstatement of a lapsed Policy will be at the discretion of the Company and will be subject 
to application being made within six months of the date of lapse, and to such terms and 
conditions as the Company shall require.
I see that after Mr and Mrs W contacted Avon to change the direct debit details, Avon wrote 
to them on 13 October 2010 to confirm the new bank details. This letter said that the October 
premium would be collected on 1 November 2010, and the November premium would be 
collected on 16 November 2010. 
Avon has provided its system notes from November 2010, and this shows that a BACS 
payment on 3 November 2010 was rejected. Its system records also show that a letter was 
sent to Mr and Mrs W on 4 November 2010. Avon hasnt been able to provide a copy of that 
letter, but I see that its system describes it as lapse letter.
Im satisfied from this evidence that Avon has shown it wasnt able to collect the direct debit, 
and that it did likely send Mr and Mrs W a letter confirming their policies would lapse if the 
payments werent brought up-to-date. As Mr and Mrs W didnt get in contact with Avon, the 
policies lapsed in accordance with the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs W say they didnt receive Avons letter of 4 November 2010, and so didnt know 
the payment hadnt been taken and that their policies would be lapsed. Thats unfortunate, 
but I dont think its unreasonable to have expected them to have noticed at some point over 
the following few months that Avon was no longer collecting premiums from them. If they 
had noticed this, they could have contacted Avon and it likely would have reinstated their 
cover as stated in the policy terms (so long as this was within six months of the date the 
cover had lapsed). 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs W didnt realise for around eight years that they werent paying 
the premiums, and by that time Avon wasnt willing to reinstate their cover, though I 
understand Mr and Mrs W didnt want them to at this point anyway. 
Mr and Mrs W want Avon to reimburse them the premiums they have paid since first taking 
out the policies. However, Avon would have been obliged to pay any valid claims made 
whilst Mr and Mrs Ws cover was in force, and so I see no reason to require Avon to return 
the premiums Mr and Mrs W paid for their cover. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman