DRN-3879047
The complaint
Mr F has complained about his car insurer U K Insurance Limited in respect of a claim he 
made to it when his car was damaged, whilst he was driving it abroad, by another driver.
 
What happened
Mr Fs car was damaged in April 2022. He spoke to the driver involved at the time and to 
UKI. In May 2022 he gave UKI further details and arrangements were made to fix his car. 
But problems arose and by mid-July 2022 UKI accepted the repair had been unacceptably 
delayed and said that would be prioritised and paid Mr F £150 compensation.
In October 2022 Mr Fs policy was due to renew. He noticed the premium had increased due 
to his no claims discount (NCD) being reduced. He felt that was unfair as the accident had 
not been his fault and recalled UKI telling him that, as a result, his NCD would not be 
affected. UKI said it had not advised that  rather that it looked as though Mr F had not been 
at fault and his NCD wouldnt be affected as long as liability was accepted by the other 
drivers insurer. 
In respect of liability UKI noted it had been quite some time since the claim was made. Upon 
review it noted that it had done little in those months to progress matters. It acknowledged 
that it should have done more and that because it hadnt the claim had been subject to 
delay. It paid Mr F £150 compensation and began acting to progress the claim.
To progress the claim Mr F was asked to complete a further form. He did so but a dispute 
about that form then arose. By this time Mr F had made a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in respect of UKIs claim handling and the delays it had caused up until 
3 October 2022. During correspondence with our Investigator Mr F accepted what UKI had 
said he had been told about liability and his NCD. But he said he had never expected it 
would then handle the claim so poorly as to do nothing with it for months. 
Our Investigator explained that she could only look at the complaints made and what had 
happened up until 3 October 2022. She also explained that this service is not the regulator 
and we dont seek to punish insurers or change the way they do business. She accepted it 
had delayed progressing the claim but didnt think this had caused it to still be open when 
the policy became due for renewal, when it would otherwise have been settled with liability in 
Mr Fs favour. So she didnt think the increase in the renewal premium had been caused by 
UKI. And she noted that once liability is settled, if that is as expected in Mr Fs favour, the 
premium will be recalculated and backdated. For the distress and inconvenience caused by 
UKIs delay in repairing Mr Fs car and in progressing the claim in respect of the other driver, 
she felt the compensation already paid by UKI was fair and reasonable.
Mr F didnt agree with, and so wasnt prepared to accept, our Investigators findings. He 
asked for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with Mr F that UKI failed him here. Theres no doubt that UKI did not 
handle this claim well, either in respect of the repairs to Mr Fs car, or regarding obtaining an 
acceptance of liability from the other drivers insurer. I think Mr F was caused distress and 
inconvenience in both respects and that compensation is warranted. The issue then 
becomes one of what level of compensation is fair and reasonable to make up for that.
In looking at what is required its important to first recognise that compensation for distress 
and inconvenience is a separate issue to any reimbursement which might be due for 
financial loss. When an insurer makes a mistake, or several mistakes, the loss to a policy 
holder can be both non-financial (distress and inconvenience) and financial  here Mr F feels 
UKIs delays caused an increase in his premiums. 
I know Mr F believes that but for UKIs delays, the other insurer would most likely have 
accepted liability before it was time for his policy to renew. But Im not persuaded that is the 
case. In saying this Ill emphasize here that whilst I know that the form, a dispute about 
which arose after UKIs 3 October final response letter, may also impact that liability 
decision, I am not looking at that aspect here. I know Mr F feels that UKI should have asked 
him to complete the form in April 2022. And that is clearly before the 3 October 2022 final 
response. But the issue about completion of the form, and any impact its late completion 
may have, only arose after the 3 October 2022 final response letter. So they did not form 
part of the complaints made to UKI which Mr F then referred to this service in October 2022. 
Anything I say in this decision about UKIs handling of the claim up until 3 October 2022 only 
relates to the delays it caused by not pro-actively progressing the claim with the other 
drivers insurer.  
Quite clearly UKI should have done more to monitor the claim after it was made and bearing 
in mind it used a company to handle it on its behalf. I dont think it could ever reasonably 
have warned Mr F that a delay like this would occur, such that he could have made an 
informed decision about whether or not to make a claim. Im satisfied it was not intentional or 
planned, rather it was an unfortunate and unforeseeable instance of poor claims 
management. That is clearly unacceptable but doesnt mean that, but for that failure, the 
insurer for the other driver would likely have accepted liability by the time Mr Fs policy came 
due for renewal. I know he thinks the circumstances are so simple it is the type of claim 
where liability should, and maybe even often is, accepted within a few months. But the 
circumstances of a claim arent the only factor which impact on whether or not liability is 
accepted. Rather it is up to the other insurer to agree liability and they may not do so, even 
where the other driver did so at the scene. Here the other insurer didnt seem minded to 
have just accepted that its driver was responsible, so it seems to me that its unlikely this 
claim would ever have resolved before Mr Fs policy renewed, even if UKI hadnt failed him 
in respect of causing delays. I cant then reasonably require UKI to reimburse the additional 
premium which Mr F views as a financial loss. And in saying that Im also mindful that if 
liability is agreed by the other insurer, UKI will review its charge for cover and reimburse 
Mr F accordingly. If liability is not agreed, and Mr F thinks that is due to another failing by 
UKI, perhaps in respect of the form for example, he will be able to make a further complaint. 
In terms of the upset caused to Mr F by UKIs delays, UKI has said it did not receive emails 
the company handling the claim sent it asking for information. I know Mr F feels that is 
suspicious  but, regardless, UKI should have chased the company. Responsibility for the 
claim still lay with UKI and it should have been monitoring things and keeping on top of 
contact to ensure it was progressed  as far as it could ensure that  in a timely manner. 
I accept it was frustrating for Mr F to see that when his policy was due to renew, the claim 
was affecting that. And I appreciate that he was then caused even more distress when it 
became clear that UKI had not been managing things in the months since the claim was made. I note UKI has accepted it failed Mr F and has paid £150 compensation. Im satisfied 
that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here.
The part of the claim for repair to Mr Fs car was also delayed. Whilst UKI had been 
arranging its repair since mid-May, by mid-July it hadnt been done. UKI accepted it had 
failed Mr F in this respect, agreed to prioritise the repair and paid £150 compensation. 
I accept that this delay was frustrating, especially as the repair was relatively minor. But Im 
mindful that Mr F did have use of his car in the meantime. I think that the compensation paid 
by UKI was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
As our Investigator explained, the Financial Ombudsman Service is not the regulator. It is 
not our role to punish financial businesses or make them change the way they operate. 
My final decision
In line with my comments above, I think U K Insurance Limited failed Mr F. But, for the 
reasons stated above, I am not requiring it to do anything more to make up for that.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman