DRN-3289828
The complaint
Mr M complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) incorrectly 
calculated the amount of income tax it should deduct when his Fixed Term Retirement Plan 
reached maturity. 
What happened
Mr M held pension savings with L&G. He placed those pension savings into a Fixed Term 
Retirement Plan in September 2018 that matured in September 2021. At that time Mr M 
became entitled to receive a lump sum payment of £42,629.80.
Mr M received that payment on 7 September 2021. But L&G had deducted tax from the 
payment using an emergency tax code. That resulted in Mr M overpaying tax by around 
£7,000. Mr M has confirmed that the overpayment was refunded by HMRC in April 2022. But 
he complains that means he was without the money for a period of around seven months. 
He says that was due to an error by L&G in the tax calculations.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He said that he was 
satisfied that L&G had correctly followed the guidance from HMRC about how it should 
calculate the income tax to be deducted from Mr Ms payment. And he didnt think that the 
example calculation L&G had provided in its literature was misleading. So he didnt think 
Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
Mr M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and by L&G. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Pension benefit payments are treated by HMRC as income, and so firms are required to 
deduct income tax before they are made. And firms are generally required to use the PAYE 
tax system in order to calculate the tax that should be deducted. That is what L&G did here.
Mr M is entirely correct to say that his pension payment was a one-off, and did not reflect an 
intention to take regular income. But unfortunately for him that isnt a distinction that is made 
by the PAYE rules. Typically those rules will treat an income payment being made as likely 
to be repeated on a monthly frequency. For regular income payments that has the benefit of 
ensuring that any tax-free allowances are evenly spread over the year. But in cases such as 
Mr Ms it means that firms are directed to deduct more tax than will prove to be necessary. 
However that overpaid tax can later be reclaimed by the consumer from HMRC.
It seems to me that there are two sets of conflicting information that has caused 
understandable confusion for Mr M. There is an analysis of the tax that is required to be paid 
on the income he received from L&G. That is correctly reflected in the calculations he has 
performed, based on the examples L&G provided in some of its literature, and in the 
information he has been given by HMRC. But alongside that calculation is the tax that L&G 
was required to deduct by a reasonable application of the PAYE rules. But I dont think that 
the difference in those two amounts means that L&G has done something wrong.
I understand that Mr M has now received a refund from HMRC of the additional tax that he 
overpaid when L&G sent him his pension payment. So he is now in the position that he 
thinks he should have been when the payment was originally made to him. And I can 
understand why he is disappointed and frustrated that he needed to go without that 
additional income for an extended period of time.
But as Ive explained earlier, I dont think that was because of something that L&G did 
wrong. From the evidence I have seen, L&G correctly applied the PAYE rules when 
calculating the net payment due to Mr M. I accept that meant that too much income tax was 
collected by HMRC, and needed to be reclaimed by Mr M. But that was due to the HMRC 
rules, rather than an error by L&G. So I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman