DRN-2082299
The complaint
Miss F says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about three loans Mr Lender provided to Miss F between July 2017 and 
May 2018. Miss Fs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Start date End date Loan 
amountLoan 
TermHighest 
repayment 
amountDeferrals
1 01/07/2017 27/10/2017 £300 3 £162.40 1
2 02/11/2017 25/05/2018 £700 6 £247.14 1
3 25/05/2018 29/03/2019 £1000 12 £222.83 0
In its final response letter, Mr Lender did not agree to uphold Miss Fs complaint. It told her 
that each loan was subject to proportionate checks and these checks were in line with its 
responsible lending policies. Whilst it didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint, it offered to give her a 
voucher as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss F did not accept Mr Lenders offer and complained to this service. She told us that she 
was affected by these loans, had become dependent on them and struggled financially. She 
said she had to borrow other loans to try and keep up with her repayments.
Our adjudicator initially didnt think this matter should be upheld. Miss F disagreed with this 
view.
Another adjudicator looked again and this time in our latest assessment, she said Mr Lender 
shouldnt have given Miss F loan 3. She said that by loan 3 proportionate checks would have 
shown Miss F was having problems managing money. She explained that Mr Lender would 
have become aware that Miss F was borrowing from other lenders and had sums 
outstanding to them which were repayable at the same time as loan 3. So, she said it was 
unlikely Miss F could sustainably repay this loan.
Mr Lender disagreed with this view and the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss F could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Fs complaint. Ive decided to agree with the latest 
assessment and uphold Miss Fs complaint about loan 3. I will explain why.
For loans 1 and 2 I think Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks and I dont think there 
was anything in the information it received that might have led it to believe Miss F was 
having problems managing her money or prompted it to verify everything Miss F was saying 
about her financial situation.
For the first loan Miss F told Mr Lender that she had a net monthly income of £1,436 and 
that her expenditure was £817 made up of £300 for her rent/ mortgage and £90 for her 
utilities. She said her food bill was £290 and her council tax was £64. Her 
telecommunications bill was declared as £43. And her other short-term loan repayments 
were £30. Miss F was not the subject of any bankruptcy or other debt management plan. I 
can see Miss F deferred her repayment for this loan once at the end of July 2017. She 
repaid her loan in October 2017.
Loan 2 was for £700. So, the amount Miss F was asking for had more than doubled. But the 
term of the loan had also increased, so the repayments were only slightly more than Miss F had been repaying for loan 1. She asked for this loan only six days after repaying her first 
loan. This time Miss F told Mr Lender that her income was £1,436 and her total expenses 
were £987. Her expenses remained the same as she had declared for loan 1 but this time 
her short-term loan repayments had increased to £200. Based on the amounts she had 
declared; Miss F still had a disposable income of £449.There was no record of bankruptcy. 
At this stage I think Mr Lender did just enough checks and the loan would on balance have 
appeared affordable. So, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint about this loan. I also note that 
just prior to repaying her third instalment Miss F opted to repay just the interest on this 
payment. 
When Mr Lender gave Miss F loan 3, I think it needed to do more. I say this because this 
loan was taken out on the same day as Miss F had repaid her previous loan. Miss F was 
borrowing increasingly larger amounts to be repaid over longer periods and there was no 
significant gap between borrowing. In addition, for both loans 1 and 2, Miss F had to 
increase the repayment term. Loan 3 was for a period of 12 months, so I think Mr Lender 
needed to take steps to verify the information it had received.
It could have done this in several ways. For example, it could have asked for Miss Fs pay 
slips to confirm her income or her bank statements to show her outgoings. In this matter 
Miss F has provided copies of her bank statements and I dont think it is unreasonable for 
me to rely on these to see Miss Fs other financial responsibilities at the time she took out 
loan 3.
Miss Fs declared income seemed to be broadly accurate, although I think she was also in 
receipt of some benefits adding around £250 per month to her income. But I can see from 
Miss Fs bank statements she had been borrowing from a few other short-term lenders at the 
time she took out her third loan with Mr Lender. I can see Miss F had an outstanding short-
term loan of around £800 deposited into her account not long before she took out her third 
loan. Miss F also two other short-term loans to which Miss F made repayments at the end of 
May totalling £384 and another short-term loan of around £216. She also had some other 
high cost credit loans totalling around £283. So just on her credit commitments, Miss F was 
already committed to repaying nearly £1,500 per month and that didnt include her phone 
bills, credit cards or her day to day living costs.
I think if Mr Lender had taken further steps to verify Miss Fs information it would have likely 
been alerted to her having problems managing her money and it was likely on balance that it 
would have realised that loan 3 was unsustainable and unaffordable for her. I dont think it 
would have provided loan 3 to her if it had taken more steps to confirm the information it had 
received.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Miss F paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 3 from Miss Fs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Miss Fs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman