DRN-4413872
The complaint
Mr W complains about the difficulties hes experienced in using The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plcs (RBS) mobile banking app in particular when authorising payments using biometrics. 
Mr W is also unhappy with the service hes received from RBS in dealing with his complaint.
What happened
Mr W moved his banking to RBS in early 2023 and was set up for mobile banking on his 
account. 
Mr W needed to make regular court appointed payments to his ex-wife. RBS advised Mr W 
to set up biometrics due to the payment limits it has in place on the app where customers 
arent registered for biometrics. Mr W was also sent a card reader on 28 February.
Mr W successfully registered for biometrics on 18 March but found that when it came to 
authorising payments with biometrics it kept failing. He says the app required you to put your 
face in a circle and blink and it was very difficult to get the exact spot required. Mr W says 
after a few attempts it would fail and delete all the information hed loaded into the app, 
which resulted in him having to set it all up - including the app - again from scratch. Mr W 
says he missed two important payments because of this and now feels he has to carry 
around the information needed to set up payments to circumvent biometric payments failing 
which means his account isnt secure. 
Mr W also found that every time he made a payment using biometrics he received a 
message saying that the payee details for XXXX have been updated as requested by you 
and to contact RBS immediately if this was not made by him. Mr W says he never made any 
changes to the payee details yet this message indicated someone had.
Mr W says he tried to pay a cheque in through its app but was told that the amount entered 
did not match the cheque  even though it did.
Mr W complained to RBS about the issues he had with both paying in cheques and using 
biometrics to make payments on its app on 1 April. He says now biometrics is set up he is 
forced to use it as it cant be deactivated.
RBS issued its final response letter on 4 May dealing with the failed deposit of a cheque. It 
wasnt able to establish where the error was but upheld Mr Ws complaint because he was 
unable to action the cheque deposit and for the amount of time that it took to resolve his 
complaint. RBS credited Mr Ws account with £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
suffered and asked that Mr W contact its technical support team to investigate further if he 
was still having issues.
Mr W was dissatisfied with this as RBS had only addressed one of the complaint points hed 
raised with it. Mr W says he contacted RBS about this and spoke to someone who had no 
interest in resolving the matter and was provided with incorrect information  saying the 
matter had been closed. Mr W spoke to someone else and it eventuated that all his 
complaint points hadnt been answered as his complaint had been split and Mr W was told 
that someone would be in contact about this and his other complaint points. RBS failed to 
get in touch, so Mr W brought his complaint to this service.
Mr W says he has a very serious medical condition which hes told RBS about and all the 
issues surrounding his banking with it is making it worse  he wants to be provided with a 
service he can rely on. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws concerns and gave RBS an opportunity to 
further respond on the problems Mr W was having. 
RBS investigated why Mr W was receiving a message telling him there had been a change 
to the payee. It says that each time Mr W made a payment to the payee in question he 
amended the payment reference and that its this amendment of the payment reference that 
was triggering the notification Mr W was getting. It says that this is an anti-fraud message 
and working as expected.
RBS have advised that there are no known errors with its mobile banking app and have 
asked Mr W to provide further details and evidence of the problems he has in order for it to 
further investigate and assist him. 
RBS says if a customer fails biometrics 5 times they would be taken out of the app and 
would be required to re-register and potentially have to enter a one-time passcode. RBS 
says a customer would only fail biometrics if they failed to meet what was advised on screen 
when trying to use biometrics or potentially if the image appeared different to when the 
customer was initially registered. RBS has confirmed that the blink requirement was due for 
removal in October and should hopefully make the journey smoother for Mr W.
However, if Mr W doesnt wish to use biometrics for authorising payments he can deactivate 
it and has the option of using the card reader or voice biometrics being introduced later this 
year.
Our investigator thought that RBS had done all that it could to assist and resolve Mr Ws 
issues without further evidence and thought that the £100 compensation hed received for 
the app failing to process the cheque correctly was fair compensation and didnt think RBS 
needed to do anything more.
Mr W disagrees and have asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear from what Ive seen that Mr W is very unhappy with his decision to move his 
banking to RBS  in particular with the experience hes had with using its banking app and 
the communication hes received regarding the complaints hes raised about this. What is 
not clear to me is what Mr W wants to resolve the matter.
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make RBS 
change its systems or processes  such as the technology it uses to provide its banking 
facilities or services. These are commercial decisions and not something wed get involved 
with. We offer an informal dispute resolution and my role in this is to look at the problems Mr 
W has experienced and see if RBS has done anything wrong or treated him unfairly. If it has, 
I would seek  if possible - to put Mr W back in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award compensation that I think is fair and 
reasonable.
Mr W has raised a number complaints with RBS but the focus of my decision and the crux of 
what I consider Mr Ws complaint relates to is the complaint points Mr W referred to us in his 
complaint letter dated 26 May 2023. Ive outlined these in the background above and for 
ease I will deal with each of the main complaint points separately below.  
Issue 1  Not being able to pay in a cheque using RBSs app.
RBS already upheld this complaint point and compensated Mr W £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience suffered due to this. Mr W has agreed in his correspondence with us that this 
matter is considered resolved by him and as such I will not be asking RBS to do anything 
further here.
Issue 2  Automated message saying payee details had been updated.
Im satisfied that RBS have explained the reason for this message and that Mr W 
understands why hes received it. Mr W believes the content of this message to be a 
miscommunication, misleading and a failing of RBSs systems but has agreed to move on 
from this. So I dont think there is anything further for RBS to do here. 
Issue 3  Validation on app fails when using biometric system and deletion of details held on 
the app when automatically restored to factory settings.
RBS say it isnt aware of any other customers having these issues and arent aware of any 
errors in its system. My understanding is that if a customer fails biometrics 5 times they 
would be taken out of the app and would be required to re-register  which I think is what 
has happened to Mr W on occasion. I appreciate this is frustrating for Mr W but based on 
what Ive seen I cant say this is an error on RBSs part or Mr Ws when following the 
biometric instruction  so I cant make a definite finding on this point. But I dont think it is 
unreasonable  for security purposes  for the system to reset after a certain amount of 
failures.  
In any case RBS have confirmed that the blink requirement has been removed and Mr W 
should have a smoother journey going forward when using biometrics to authorise 
payments. And as I cant say Mr W hasnt been able to successfully use biometrics to 
authorise payments due to an error on RBSs part and as Mr W hasnt made us aware of any 
ongoing problems or whether there has been a change in the ease of use of the biometrics, I 
dont think there is anything further to do here.
Issue 4  Alternatives and further support provided to Mr W in order to make payments.
RBS says Mr W has the option of deactivating the biometrics if it still doesnt work for him 
and authorising payments using its card reader which I understand was sent to Mr W on 28 
February. So Im satisfied if Mr W is still having problems with using biometrics to authorise 
payments that RBS has offered him a reasonable alternative. 
Finally, Mr W says all the issues hes had is affecting a very serious medical condition he 
has. I can see that RBS has requested Mr Ws authority and Mr W has agreed to add a note 
to his account concerning his medical condition  so going forward it can take this into 
consideration when dealing with any issues that might come up.So overall and having considered everything - although as explained above it is not for me to 
tell RBS what technology to use or how to provide banking facilities - Im satisfied overall that 
RBS has done all it can to assist and support Mr W in using its banking app. 
Furthermore, I think the £100 compensation already paid to Mr W for the failed cheque 
deposit is fair and I do not consider that further compensation above this would make a 
material difference to his situation or is warranted. And that being the case Im not going to 
ask that RBS do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman