DRN-2291799
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc applied an early repayment charge unfairly. Hed like 
part of it refunded and compensation for his time and upset.
What happened
Mr H had a mortgage with Santander. He took out a new interest rate product in 2015. An 
ERC applied if all or part of the mortgage was repaid during the product term, which ended 
in 2022. However, Mr H could make overpayments of up to 10% a year without paying an 
ERC.
Mr H repaid his mortgage in 2020. He says Santander applied the ERC unfairly as it didnt 
take account of his 10% overpayment allowance. Mr H said the information given to him by 
Santander was misleading. He says if hed been given clear information, hed have made a 
10% overpayment before repaying the mortgage.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had misled Mr H about the ERC. She said it had 
acted in accordance with the mortgage terms and applied the ERC fairly.
Mr H didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
When Mr H took out a fixed interest rate product in 2015 he agreed to the product terms, 
which were set out in the conversion offer. This included an ERC, which applied until 2022. 
The conversion offer said Mr H could make lump sum or overpayments at any time. It said 
he could make additional capital repayments of up to 10% each year without having to pay 
an ERC. An ERC would be payable on capital repayments in excess of this. 
Mr H made a lump sum payment of £12,000 in December 2019, which was almost all of his 
ERC free allowance for 2019. 
Mr Hs solicitor asked for a redemption statement for repayment of the mortgage on 3 
January 2020. Mr H called Santander on 2 January 2020 as he wasnt happy that his ERC 
free allowance for 2020 wasnt taken into account in the redemption statement. He says his 
ERC should be reduced by 10%. 
Mr H repaid his mortgage, and paid the ERC. 
Did Santander give Mr H clear information?
Part 10 of the conversion offer says an ERC applies, calculated as a percentage of the 
amount repaid. It gives an illustration of the maximum ERC payable if the mortgage is repaid 
in full. This doesnt include a reduction for the 10% ERC free allowance. 
The conversion offer says Mr H can make overpayments of up to 10% each year without 
incurring an ERC. 
I dont think the conversion offers suggests that Santander will treat repayment of the 
mortgage as an overpayment, and apply the ERC free allowance. If that was intended Id 
expect the illustration in part 10 of the conversion offer to reflect this. 
Mr H says the offer doesnt specifically say that the ERC free allowance wont apply when 
the mortgage is repaid. I understand his point, although the illustration in part 10 does rather 
suggest this. And there was other information available to Mr H that said this.
Santander says when Mr H took out the mortgage it sent him a document called A 
straightforward guide to your mortgage. This says: 
Even where your mortgage offer states an Early Repayment Charge applies, you 
can still repay up to 10% of the money you owe us in each calendar year without 
having to pay an Early Repayment ChargeYou also cant take advantage of the 
10% allowance if youre repaying all of the money you owe us upon the sale of your 
property.
I think its likely Mr H did receive this guide as he signed to say hed read it. I appreciate this 
was some time before he repaid his mortgage. Santanders website also provides 
information about overpayments. This says: If youre redeeming your mortgage (repaying 
everything you owe),you wont be able to use the 10% allowance.
Mr H spoke to Santander in September 2019. Mr H says he asked about redemption and the 
annual ERC free allowance. He says Santander didnt tell him the ERC free allowance 
wouldnt apply when the mortgage was repaid. Unfortunately, Santander cant provide a 
recording of this call. 
If Mr H had asked whether the ERC allowance would apply when his mortgage was repaid, 
Id expect Santander to give a clear answer. But its not clear this is what happened. When 
Mr H made a complaint on 2 January 2020 he explained why he thought the ERC free 
allowance should apply. He didnt refer to the call in September 2019 or say that he was told 
this on the call. Santanders notes say when Mr H called in September 2019 he asked about 
the balance hed have to repay for information only. I dont think Santander knew Mr H was 
expecting the ERC free allowance to be applied, so I dont think its fair to say it should have 
told him it wouldnt.
Santander sent redemption statements to Mr Hs solicitor in September and December 2019. 
These set out the ERC without any reduction for the 10% ERC free allowance. 
Overall, I think there was enough clear information available that the ERC free allowance 
wouldnt apply when the mortgage was repaid. I can understand Mr Hs disappointment that 
the ERC he paid wasnt reduced by 10%, as hed expected. But I dont think Santander 
misled him about this. It follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or ordering 
Santander to pay compensation.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman