DRN-3152239
The complaint
Mr R complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund payments he didnt make from his 
account.
What happened
Mr R disputes four faster payments from his account made on 20 and 21 January 2021 and 
which total £2,500. He also says other attempted payments of £1,000 didnt go through. He 
says he has no idea how these were made and hadnt given his security information to 
anyone. He was abroad working on a yacht at the time and arranged for a family member 
who represents him in this complaint to report what happened on 22 January 2021.
Starling Bank said it wouldnt be refunding the money. There was no sign of any compromise 
of Mr Rs account. The payments were made after three new payees were set up and this 
would have required a log in to the app and also a password each time. There was no new 
device registered and no password changes. It had sent a notification to Mr R after each 
payment. It considered Mr R had made the payments himself or hadnt kept his security 
details safe. As it considered he was responsible for the payments it hadnt contacted the 
businesses holding the accounts of the payees.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said he thought that    
Mr R consented to the payments. He said this because there was no likely way in which a 
third party could have accessed the account. This would have required access to Mr Rs 
phone using face ID or a passcode, access to the app and then a different password to set 
up the payees. The payments were spread over the two days. And hed have expected a 
fraudster to take as much money as quickly as possible. Mr R didnt suspect anyone he was 
working with and wasnt sharing a cabin at the time. As there was no evidence that Mr R was 
tricked into making the payments as part of a scam he had no other protection under 
industry practice about dealing with scams.
Mr Rs representative said that Mr R didnt agree. Mr R wouldnt have given money to people 
he didnt know. Fraudsters have ways to hack into someones IP address and she pointed 
out the name of the attempted payee was the same as someone reported to be involved in 
wide fraud abroad. There were multiple attempts to access the account and there should 
have been a security alert. The pattern ought to have raised suspicion. Starling Bank had 
made no effort to get the money back and Mr R had contacted the payees banks. One had 
said that it would have done something had Starling Bank been in contact. Mr R wouldnt 
have reported this including to the authorities if this wasnt a genuine claim. He wanted this 
looked at again and the conclusions changed and to be compensated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with the security details. And if they werent 
authorised Mr R wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Did Mr R authorise the payments on the account which could have involved allowing 
someone else to make them?
- Did Starling Bank act reasonably?
I need first to say that I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Ill be thinking about 
what is most likely.
Im satisfied from the evidence provided by Starling Bank that the payments that were 
processed were authenticated. And that this followed a log on to Mr Rs account through the 
app. The payments that were declined appeared to have incorrect payee account details and 
so werent authenticated ones and werent processed. 
The issue is whether Mr R consented to the payments. I understand his position is that he 
doesnt know these payees. And that if he had wanted to pay the person to whom payments 
failed he would have tried again and wouldnt have reported this. But I need to think about 
how the payments could have been made by an unknown third party without his knowledge.
He explains that he was at sea for a period and worked with the same people on a yacht. If 
anything, that might limit who had access to his phone. And he doesnt suspect anyone. He 
also explains that at times he couldnt get a mobile signal and thats why hed asked his 
representative to take this up with Starling Bank. In an email of 29 January 2021 to Starling 
Bank he also says that this might have affected whether the notifications which Starling Bank 
said were sent about the payments got through to him.
The evidence from Starling Bank is that only devices recognised and used by Mr R were 
registered to the account. There was no new device set up for these payments. And no 
changes made to any password. There is no evidence to support his account being hacked 
or how that could have been done and masking an IP address wouldnt have been enough 
here even if that had been possible. The information from his representative about the name 
of one the payees being the same as one linked to overseas fraud doesnt really assist me 
here. The point is that Mr Rs device was used and needed to be accessed using his security 
details. A log in to the Starling Bank app was made with those security details and the 
payees set up with a password.I know Mr R thinks that the payments were suspicious and that they were spread out and of 
amounts to avoid detection. There was significantly more money in his account than was 
taken. And there was £1,000 paid on 20 January 2021 and the other amount of £1,500 on 21 
January 2021 starting over 20 hours later. And if payments to one payee had failed it is 
unclear why payments to payees that could be used werent higher. The point is that 
although I cant know exactly how a fraudster would operate I think it likely that as much 
money would be taken as quickly as possible. The potential for Mr R to discover what 
happened was always there and as he then says he did on 21 January 2021. There is no 
evidence any payments went out after Starling Bank were alerted to the fraud and I can 
understand why it was reluctant to act on his representatives instructions as she didnt have 
authority on the account. Having said that it did take a sensible precautionary measure when 
it understood the position and pending Mr R contacting it.
Im afraid for the reasons Ive given I dont find that it is most likely that these payments were 
carried out by a third party without Mr Rs consent. Ive thought about how Starling Bank 
approached this. Given that I find these werent unauthorised payments its difficult to say 
that it should have done more then sent a notification. And I dont think it could have known if 
due to problems with reception Mr R hadnt received them. It didnt allow any payments I find 
were unauthorised to go through. And so, unless Mr R had explained that he had say been 
the victim of a scam or shown how his details were compromised I wouldnt have expected it 
to contact the businesses holding the accounts of the payees.
I appreciate what is at stake for Mr R and the strong feelings of his representative, but I 
wont be asking Starling Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman