DRN-2039633
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bluefriars Brokers Limited (Bluefriars) unfairly cancelled his car 
insurance policy which has made car insurance more expensive for him in the future.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr M took out a car insurance policy which Bluefriars, an insurance broker, 
sold to him. He wanted to pay for the policy by monthly instalments and the loan for this was 
provided by a credit finance company, C.
On 14 November 2019, Bluefriars emailed Mr M to say that it had been told hed missed his 
direct debit payment to C. It reminded him he was required to pay the premium on demand 
and told him to contact C to pay the arrears. It also said that it reserves the right to cancel 
your policy for non-payment of premium.
On 21 November 2019, C wrote to Mr M to say that hed missed a payment to it and his 
account was in arrears. The letter required Mr M to make the payment to C by 3 December. 
On 25 November, C wrote to Mr M with a further reminder to pay it. The letter says, 
you must contact us before 3 December 2019 to pay your arrears. If you dont pay 
your arrears in full by this date, we may cancel your agreement, which could affect 
any insurance policies funded under your agreement with us. 
On 28 November, Bluefriars emailed Mr M with a final reminder to say his account with C 
remained in arrears and that it had contacted him about this on 14 November. It also says, 
if you have not cleared the arrears by 5 December 2019 (21 days after our
initial communication with you)we will cancel your Policy
On 4 December, Mr M says he tried to log into Cs website because he knew there was an 
outstanding payment, but it said his account was locked. He then called C who confirmed his 
account was locked and that, even if he made the payment, the credit agreement would still 
be cancelled. C sent him a letter the same day to say the credit agreement had been ended 
as he failed to pay the November instalment.
Also on 4 December, Mr M phoned Bluefriars  he explained what had happened earlier that 
day. The call handler at Bluefriars told him,
You need to have cleared your arrears by the 5th December so were on the 4th so 
its not been cancelled and obviously your policy is still active. You do need to clear 
your arrears tomorrow [5th December] by 6 oclock otherwise it will be cancelled. 
Theyve cancelled it on their end soI can send them an internal message to say 
that youve actually got until tomorrow 6pm to pay the arrears.
When Mr M phoned C a few hours later, he says C told him that, although theyd received 
the email from Bluefriars, they still wouldnt reinstate his credit agreement. 
Mr M complained to Bluefriars but it didnt uphold his complaint. It explained that C had said 
that where there are multiple defaults and a previous loan cancellation, they wont reinstate 
the loan. Without the loan, the insurance policy couldnt continue. In this case, Mr M had 
defaulted on his payment of the instalments each time he was meant to pay it since the 
policy started and the loan had already been cancelled and reinstated on one previous 
occasion. 
Mr M accepts he was late in paying his instalment but tried to pay it by the deadline set out 
in the email from Bluefriars. He felt the problem was due to the confusing information from C 
and Bluefriars which meant he wasnt sure what date he was meant to pay the money by.
Our investigator looked into matters. He noted the following:
- The credit agreement Mr M took out with C made him aware that, where payments 
are missed, the insurance policy taken out through Bluefriars may be cancelled. 
- There were emails and letters to Mr M which made it clear that he needed to contact 
C to pay his arrears. But he didnt try to pay for over three weeks.
Taking everything into account, our investigator felt that Bluefriars was able to reasonably 
cancel the policy. So he didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M disagreed and asked our 
investigator to listen to his call of 4 December to Bluefriars. 
Bluefriars responded to make a number of points including the following:
- C had written to Mr M many times since the loan started to warn him that theyd 
cancel the loan due to missed payments and this would affect his insurance policy.
- Mr M had his loan agreement with C terminated before in October 2019. Whilst this 
was later reversed, C wouldnt do this again in December due to repeated failures by 
Mr M to keep up with his payments and as hed already had one reinstated.
- Mr M was aware of their role and arrangements he had with them and C regarding 
his premium and the importance of making payments when he should.
- As C was unable to continue with Mr Ms finance agreement and Bluefriars couldnt 
set up a local payment facility, the policy had to be cancelled.
Our investigator listened to the call and took the above into account but this didnt change 
his mind on the main part of Mr Ms complaint. However, he felt that Bluefriars did give Mr M 
confusing information in the dates it referred to make the payment to C by. He thought itd be 
fair for Bluefriars to pay Mr M compensation of £25 for this which it agreed to do.
Mr M was unhappy with this. He has explained that the impact of the cancellation of 
insurance in 2019 is that, as he is now classed as a key worker, he has to take public 
transport to work, rather than drive. And this makes him feel concerned for his health.
The matter was passed to me for a decision. Having considered the matter, I issued a 
provisional decision dated 26 June 2020 to explain the outcome in some further detail. An 
extract from my findings is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Having done so, I must tell Mr M that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold the main part of his complaint. Ill explain why below. At this point, however, I think its important to say that the actions of C are not a matter for this decision - 
Mr M had a separate complaint set up about C.
Mr Ms concerns fall broadly into two areas. Firstly, was Bluefriars entitled to cancel Mr Ms 
insurance policy. Secondly, even if it was able to do this, should Bluefriars be required to do 
anything different as a result of the information it gave Mr M in a letter and on the phone. Ive 
looked at each area in turn.
cancellation of the insurance policy
Under the terms of his insurance policy, Mr M was required to pay the instalments for his 
insurance policy. And, if he failed to do this, Bluefriars could cancel the agreement. The 
terms also say that this cancellation should be 21 days after sending a reminder if the 
premium still hasnt been paid.
On 3 December 2019, C cancelled Mr Ms credit agreement because payment still hadnt 
been made despite reminders. Whilst Bluefriars told Mr M it was willing to support the 
reinstatement of the credit agreement by C and, therefore, the continuation of the insurance 
policy, C wasnt willing to do this. Bluefriars didnt have the ability to set up a repayment 
arrangement itself and so the insurance policy came to an end on 6 December as a result of 
the cancellation of the credit agreement on 3 December. This was just over 21 days since 
Bluefriars had first written to Mr M about the missed payment on 14 November and is 
something Bluefriars was entitled to do under the policy terms in these circumstances. 
I note that Bluefriars didnt offer Mr M another instalment payment plan or the opportunity to 
pay the policy premium in full to keep the policy. But they didnt have the capacity to give him 
an instalment plan themselves and C werent willing to continue with the existing credit 
agreement. I also havent seen any evidence which would suggest that Mr M was able to 
pay this, in full, himself. So, I dont think this was unreasonable. 
Given the circumstances, I think Bluefriars was entitled to cancel the insurance policy and 
gave Mr M the correct notice to do so. And I dont think this was unfair or unreasonable for it 
to do this. It follows that I dont uphold this part of Mr Ms complaint.
incorrect information
C sent Mr M several letters when he first missed the November payment. These letters told 
him to pay by 3 December 2019. And C was consistent in the deadline it gave to him.
Bluefriars also wrote to him to remind him to pay C and, in its letter of 28 November, it 
referred to a different date in their correspondence for him to make payment  5 December. 
Mr M knew that hed already missed the November payment and was aware of the letters 
and demands from C. However, he attempted to make the payment to C on 4 December, 
which I think suggests he was relying on the letter from Bluefriars with a different, slightly 
later, deadline. But I dont think it was reasonable for him to do this.
C had made it clear in its reminders when Mr M had to make the payment of the November 
instalment to it. I also think Mr M knew this deadline and that he was required to make the 
payment to C, not Bluefriars. So, I think it was up to him to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that he made his payment to C by the deadline it had given him. 
I dont think it was reasonable for Mr M to assume that a letter from Bluefriars would change 
the deadline C had given him for the payment due to it and mentioned in a number of letters. 
When he spoke to Bluefriars on 4 December, he said he was aware of the letters and 
demands but found the different dates confusing. However, I think its reasonable to have expected him to contact C  the business he was making the payment to and owed the 
money - to check what the deadline was. And I think he shouldve reasonably done this 
before the deadline C had given him had passed of 3 December.
Even if Bluefriars had given him the correct date he had to pay C, I still dont feel I could say 
that its more likely that he wouldve paid C in time to stop the credit agreement from being 
cancelled. This is because he had previously missed numerous payment deadlines, 
including those where hed been told his credit agreement would be cancelled. I also note 
this is what had happened the month before.
By the time Mr M spoke to Bluefriars on 4 December, hed already missed the deadline for 
payment given by C. In that call, Bluefriars did give him the impression that his credit 
agreement could be reinstated and emailed C to ask it to do this. However, the call was after 
the deadline C had given him had already passed and it wasnt possible for C to do this. I 
can see that this wouldve given Mr M an expectation that it would be possible for his credit 
agreement to be reinstated when this wasnt something C was going to agree to. However, 
even if hed been told the correct position  the credit agreement wouldnt be reinstated by C 
 I cant see this wouldve changed the fact that his insurance policy was going to be 
cancelled.
Even so, whilst I can see Bluefriars gave Mr M confusing information on two occasions, I 
dont think I could fairly say that Mr Ms policy should be reinstated as a result of this for the 
reasons set out above. Notwithstanding this, I note that Bluefriars has offered £25 to Mr M 
for any distress and inconvenience caused by the incorrect and misleading information. And 
I dont intend to change this or ask it to do anything more.
Finally, Bluefriars has recorded this accurately as a cancellation which is what Id expect it to 
do. Because of that, the consequences of it  such as whether Mr M can afford car 
insurance  are not a matter for this decision. I can see that this would have caused Mr M 
concerns. However, as I think Bluefriarss actions were not unfair or unreasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont consider they can be held responsible for this.
Bluefriars confirmed theyd received the provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mr M says he strongly disagrees with the provisional decision and finds the £25 
compensation insulting. He doesnt feel the decision is fair or right. He makes a number of 
points including the following:
- he tried to do what he was told by two companies who shouldve been working 
together but they gave him the wrong information.
- Whilst he accepts he was late each month with his payment due to the date he gets 
paid from work, he says a late fee was charged each month so he doesnt think it 
should seem as though Bluefriars arent making a profit from him each month. 
- The impact on him and his family is significant, particularly during the pandemic, 
which has been incredibly stressful.
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman