DRN-3632565
The complaint
Ms O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from losing £15,400 
to an investment scam.
What happened
In early 2019 Ms O was persuaded to invest £15,400 with a company I shall in this decision 
call J. The money was sent to J via Coinbase  Ms O sent two payments totalling £15,400 
from her HSBC account to her Coinbase account, and it was then transferred onto J from 
there.
Ms O later realised shed been scammed and reported this to HSBC. HSBC was unable to 
recover any of Ms Os lost money, and it didnt otherwise offer to reimburse her. Remaining 
unhappy, Ms O referred her complaint about HSBC to us. As our investigator couldnt 
resolve matters informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Ms O and HSBC my provisional decision on 11 July 2022. Ms O has told us she 
accepts my provisional decision. HSBC did not provide any further submissions in response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, for the same reasons as I explained in my 
provisional decision. Ive explained my reasoning again below.  
Its common ground that Ms O authorised the two scam payments in question here. She was 
tricked by the scammer(s) into instructing HSBC to make the payments. I accept these were 
authorised payments even though Ms O was tricked. So although she didnt intend the 
payments to go to a scammer (or scammers), under the Payment Services Regulations and 
the terms and conditions of the account, Ms O is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good 
industry practice at the time in many previous decisions published our website.
The first payment: £6,000 on 31 January 2019
Ive thought about this carefully and Im not persuaded HSBC should be held responsible for
Ms Os loss of this first payment. I say this because there is a balance to be struck. Banks
had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best 
interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. And here, whilst the 
payment was for £6,000, Ms O had made a payment of this amount before from this account 
(in November 2018). And overall, looking at Ms Os prior account activity in general, I dont 
think I can reasonably say this payment instruction was sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic for Ms Os account to say that HSBC ought to have been obliged to 
intervene before processing Ms Os payment instruction.
The second payment: £9,400 on 4 February 2019
I think this second payment instruction was unusual and uncharacteristic for Ms Os account 
 at £9,400 it was for an unusually sizeable amount, and it was within only five days of the 
previous payment. Ms O had, by now, requested two payments, totalling £15,400, from her 
HSBC account to the same new payee. I think HSBC ought reasonably to have recognised 
this as sufficiently unusual and uncharacteristic for the account such that, in order to meet its 
obligations summarised above, it reasonably ought to have spoken with Ms O on 4 February 
2019 to check everything was in order before it processed the payment, to protect her from 
the possibility of financial harm.
During such a conversation with Ms O, I would reasonably expect HSBC to have asked Ms 
O who the payment was for, and for the basic surrounding context, and to have then 
proceeded appropriately from there, with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential fraud 
or scam. I have no reason to believe Ms O wouldnt have been open with HSBC. HSBC 
reasonably ought to, therefore, have quickly learned from its conversation with Ms O the 
basic background to the payment instruction  that Ms Os god-daughter had invested £200 
with J, which was now showing a value of £18,000, and that Ms O had consequently decided 
to get involved  and the payment for £9,400 was to a Coinbase account from where it would 
be transferred onto J to fund her investment.
Even though the conversation would have identified the payment was going to Ms Os own 
Coinbase account, the conversation shouldnt have stopped there on the basis that the 
money appeared to be going somewhere safe and within Ms Os control. This is because by 
January 2019 HSBC had or ought to have had a good enough understanding of how these 
scams work  including that the consumer often moves money to an account in their own 
name before moving it on again to the fraudster.
In a situation like this, I think HSBC ought to have been concerned. The returns Ms O 
thought her god-daughter was achieving ought to have been a big red flag, as ought to have 
been Ms Os lack of experience, and the nature of the investment suggested by the 
apparent need to pay in cryptocurrency. So I think HSBC ought to have given Ms O a very 
stern warning indeed, given the likelihood that Ms O was about to be scammed. And 
notwithstanding what Ive said below about contributory negligence, I do think Ms O would 
have listened and taken HSBCs warnings seriously. The payment at £9,400 would be a lot 
of money for Ms O to lose, which shed funded by way of a loan. And I think Ms O would 
have stopped and realised what she was proposing to do was too risky. So I think if HSBC had done what it reasonably ought to have done, its most likely Ms O wouldnt have 
proceeded with this payment.
Recovery
Given what Ive said above, theres no need for to address recovery of the second payment, 
since Ive already explained why I think Ms O ultimately most likely wouldnt have made this 
payment if HSBC had done what it reasonably ought to have done. For completeness, 
though, I have considered whether recovery of the first payment would most likely have been 
possible if things had happened as I think they ought to have done. However, Ms O didnt
instruct HSBC to send the money to the scammers, but instead a Coinbase account. Thats 
what HSBC did. Applying reasonable endeavours, I would therefore only expect HSBC to 
have contacted Coinbase to try to recover the money  not the scammers beneficiary bank 
directly. And I note that when HSBC did contact Coinbase, it didnt receive a response. It 
also seems to be a common occurrence in scams like this that the beneficiary account is 
drained of the funds promptly on receipt, presumably to frustrate recovery. So I dont think I 
can reasonably say the first payment is likely to have been recoverable if HSBC had done 
what it reasonably ought to have done when Ms O made her second payment instruction  I 
think its most likely HSBC wouldnt reasonably have been able to recover the first payment 
regardless.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive mentioned, I dont think Ms O would have lost her second payment of 
£9,400 if HSBC had done what it reasonably ought to have done. Ive thought about whether 
Ms O should bear some responsibility for this loss by way of contributory negligence (which 
might justify a reduction in compensation). I dont think its unfair to say Ms O really wasnt 
as careful with this payment as she reasonably ought to have been. I wouldnt have 
expected her, given her lack of experience, to have been well versed with scams like this, or 
necessarily to be aware how prevalent they have become in recent years. But I do think the 
returns Ms O seems to have suggested her god-daughter had achieved already were 
unrealistic. Im also aware that Ms O took out a loan to make the second payment, in 
circumstances where I think Ms O reasonably ought to have realised things might be too 
good to be true. Im satisfied in these circumstances that Ms O should take 50% 
blameworthiness for the loss of payment 2, to reflect her contribution to the loss of that 
payment.
It follows that I think HSBC should pay Ms O £4,700 (50% of the £9,400 payment). It should 
also pay Ms O interest on that amount from the date of the loss to the date of settlement 
calculated at 8% simple per year.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and I direct HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to pay Ms O £4,700 plus interest from the date of loss to the date of settlement 
calculated at 8% simple per year. If HSBC deducts tax in relation to an interest element of 
the award, it should provide Ms O with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman