DRN-2575406
The complaint
Mr M complains that NCO Europe Limited incorrectly told him he failed to answer its security 
questions when he called to make a payment. 
Mr M also complains NCO failed to update private information regarding one of its security 
questions despite being advised it would do so. 
Mr M says NCO took too long to respond to his concerns. 
What happened
In April 2020, Mr M called NCO to make a payment towards a debt it manages for another 
business (the lender). NCO asked Mr M questions in line with its verification process but the 
call handler said he had failed to give the right answers which meant the call couldnt 
continue. The call handler called Mr M back, completed the security questions and took 
Mr Ms payment. 
During the call, Mr M raised a complaint and asked how long it would take to receive a 
response. The call handler said they were unsure but thought it was around 30 days. But 
NCOs response to Mr Ms complaint wasnt sent within 30 days of his complaint being 
raised. 
NCOs final response said the call handler had misheard Mr Ms answers to the security 
questions. NCO also said Mr M had been told it would update some of his security 
information but he needed to contact the lender to do that. NCO confirmed the call handler 
had also incorrectly told Mr M his complaint would be responded to within 30 days. NCO 
apologised to Mr M. 
In July 2020 Mr M called NCO to make a payment. NCOs call handler said Mr M failed the 
security questions as his full name wasnt confirmed. Mr M complained and NCO responded 
to say it cant proceed with a call if the full name isnt confirmed. NCO didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint but said he could forward identification if he wanted to amend his records. 
Mr M referred his case to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator 
thought NCO had dealt with Mr Ms complaints fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr 
M asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M found the way his calls were handled troubling and upsetting. NCO 
accepts its call hander misheard Mr Ms date of birth which meant his call didnt proceed. 
And NCO also accepts Mr M was incorrectly told security answers recorded would be 
updated following his call and that the timescale for responding to his complaint wasnt right. 
NCO apologised to Mr M in its final response. 
Mr M has told us the situation upset him and I dont doubt thats the case. But, like the 
investigator, I think NCO has dealt with this complaint fairly. NCO has explained why the call 
Mr M made in April 2020 didnt proceed. NCO has also correctly explained that Mr M would 
need to update the security questions with the lender. I also think its important to note NCO 
called Mr M back as requested and completed the necessary security questions so he could 
make a payment. Whilst Mr M was caused some upset, I think the impact was limited in 
nature. 
NCOs call handler gave Mr M a 30 day timescale to respond to his questions and complaint. 
I appreciate the response took longer, but I havent found grounds to award compensation 
on that basis. I understand Mr M wanted a better understanding of what had gone wrong, but 
Im satisfied NCOs final response sets out its position fairly and explained why the call didnt 
proceed. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but Im satisfied NCOs apology in its final response is 
a fair way to resolve his complaint. 
NCO says Mr M didnt give his full name during a call in July 2020 which meant, for security 
reasons, it couldnt proceed. NCOs final response explained Mr M could provide 
identification if he wanted to update his name. NCO is free to decide how to verify its 
customers and what security questions to ask. I havent found that NCO made an error or 
treated Mr M unfairly by declining to continue the call. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but as Im satisfied NCO dealt his complaints fairly, Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman