DRN-1071101
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy about the way Assurant General Insurance Limited has handled his claim 
under his Guardsman furniture warranty.
What happened
Mr G bought a five-seat leather sofa from a furniture retailer. As part of that purchase, he 
bought a Guardsman furniture warranty, which included the cost of repair or stain removal if 
the sofa was damaged.
A few years after buying the sofa, Mr G made a claim under the warranty.  He said that a 
tube of glue had been left on the sofa.  He sat on the tube of glue, which caused damage to 
some of the sofa cushions.
Assurant assessed the claim and arranged for a repair to be made to the sofa.  It ordered 
replacement covers for the seats.  However, due to an error, the order was not actually 
placed.  When Assurant realised this, it placed the order again.  When the order was 
received, it arranged for a technician to carry out the repair.
The technician went to Mr Gs home to fit the replacement seat covers. Mr G said that he did 
not want them to be fitted as they did not match the colour of the sofa. The technician 
compared the colour of the new seat covers to the back of the sofa and said that the colour 
was a perfect match. However, due to the age of the sofa, the higher traffic areas of the sofa 
had faded in colour.  This meant that the new parts would not match the parts of the sofa 
that were unaffected by the damage.
Assurant said that the replacement parts provided were correct.  It said that Mr G could 
either accept the parts or a cash settlement.  They also offered him £50 for the delay caused 
by not placing the original order.
Mr G complained to this service.  Our adjudicator upheld his complaint.  She didnt think that 
Assurant had done enough to match the colour of the sofa. She said Assurant should either 
repair the damaged seat cushions with material that provides a reasonable match, or offer 
replacement furniture.
As Assurant did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant has said that although the replacement covers are not an identical colour to the 
sofa, this is because the sofa colour has faded over time as part of normal wear and tear.  It 
says that the policy does not cover wear and tear and that the parts are within an 
acceptable tolerance.  The issue is not about wear and tear, it is about an accident.  The 
claim is therefore not under that part of the policy. Assurant has also pointed to a part of the policy that says it cannot guarantee an exact 
colour match when a product is being repaired.  I accept this, but there is still a point when 
the mis-match is no longer acceptable.  There is no hard and fast rule for this and it will often 
come down to a question of degree of difference.
The technicians report says that he compared the colour of the new covers to the back of 
the sofa.  This showed that the parts matched the colour of the original sofa.  Given the 
technician had to compare the new parts to the back section of the sofa, this tells me that the 
parts did not match the faded sections.  Assurant have also not provided any evidence that 
the colours will ever match.  It has only said that the difference in colour is reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
I am also mindful that even if the colour will match at some point, this could take some time, 
given that the sofa has faded over a number of years. In the meantime, Mr G will have to live 
with a mismatched sofa.  I do not think this is reasonable as I think the colour difference is 
unacceptable.
I have also considered the £50 that Assurant offered Mr G for the delay in ordering the 
parts.  I think this is a fair offer for the inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
Re-consider the claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Pay Mr G the £50 compensation that they previously offered him, if they have not 
already done so.
 
My final decision
As explained above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman