DRN-2422561
The complaint
Mr R complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase 
agreement that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In November 2017, Mr R acquired a used car, paid for using a hire purchase agreement 
from Blue Motor. The cash price of the car was £12,000. The total repayable was £18,397 
and Mr R paid a deposit of £120. The remainder of the finance was to be repaid with 60 
monthly instalments of £297 followed by a final payment of £447.
Mr R experienced difficulty repaying the finance almost immediately and the agreement was 
defaulted in November 2018. He says Blue Motor finance were looking to repossess the car. 
He says he was told that if this happened any sales proceeds for the car would be taken off 
what was owed from the finance, but that Blue Motor was unlikely to achieve much more 
than £2,000 for the car at auction. Mr R says he chose to sell the car himself instead and 
asked Blue Motor for an early settlement figure, which was around £10,200. 
Mr R sold the car for £4,216 in May 2019 and he borrowed the remaining £6,040 from his 
family to settle the finance agreement. Mr R then complained to Blue Motor about its 
decision to approve the lending to him. He didnt think Blue Motor had properly assessed his 
ability to repay. He said that at the time he had only been self-employed for two months, was 
in arrears on his rent and bills and owed money to several payday lenders. 
Blue Motor didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it used credit reference agency data to 
assess Mr Rs creditworthiness. It said this focused on considering Mr Rs current credit 
commitments, including his access to credit and his repayment history. It says it has a 
number of policy rules for checking affordability it said these indicated the agreement was 
affordable to him.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Blue Motor had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. She said that if it had, it would 
have likely discovered Mr Rs income was significantly lower than was declared on the 
application and his expenditure exceeded that income. She recommended that Blue Motor 
refunds everything Mr R had paid under the agreement, minus a monthly amount for the 
usage Mr R had of the car and the sales price of the car  as this is what Blue Motor would 
have likely received if it had repossessed the car and sold it. 
Mr R agreed, but Blue Motor didnt. In summary it said:
Mr R had declared he earned £2,000 per month and had been self-employed for 
three years. Mr R also confirmed during the application that the information hed 
given was true and accurate. It was entitled to rely on the information Mr R had 
given them about his income. 
It had complied with CONC 5.2A.16 which says it can rely on information from a 
credit reference agency to assess affordability. There wasnt any need for it to verify 
Mr Rs income as no affordability concerns were raised. 
Consumers should take responsibility for their decisions and it wouldnt be 
reasonable for Blue Motor to assume Mr R would have given them false information. 
If Mr R had been honest about his circumstances, its unlikely the finance would 
have been granted.  
Because the checks within their automatic decision system said it was affordable to 
Mr R, the checks were proportionate. 
The suggested redress wouldnt be fair and places Mr R in a better position than he 
ought to be in. This is because he will have paid less than the initial cash price for 
the car. Although Blue Motor disagrees it did anything wrong in lending to Mr R, if it 
had, a fairer remedy would be for only the interest and charges to be refunded.
Because both parties didnt agree with out investigator the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Blue Motor complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr R would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr R 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Blue Motor act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Mr R has been disadvantaged in any way by Blue Motors actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Blue Motor complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, Blue Motor were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Rs ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. This is often referred to as 
an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mr R could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering his specific 
circumstances), rather than how statistically likely he was to repay. The latter, is the risk 
posed to Blue Motor as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as 
an assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be. 
The total amount repayable was £18,397, repayable over 61 months with an APR of 
19.56%. This was therefore a relatively large and costly commitment over a reasonably long 
period of time. For that reason, I would expect any reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of affordability to have been relatively thorough. 
Blue Motor says it asked Mr R about his income, how long hed been employed and his 
living circumstances (Mr R declared he was renting). In addition to this, it says it carried out 
a credit check to understand his management of previous debt and what his current credit 
commitments were. It says that this information didnt reveal any affordability concerns. But 
I dont think Blue Motors checks went far enough. 
Blue Motor has referred to CONC 5.2A.16G. Notwithstanding that I think Blue Motor has 
misdirected themselves in their understanding of what this part of CONC says, this part of 
the handbook didnt exist at the time it lent to Mr R. I think what was most relevant here was 
CONC 5.3.1G(4)(b) which says (and has, I believe, the same overall intention as CONC 
5.2A.16G): 
it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of 
the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by 
the customer
In this case, Blue Motor did rely solely on Mr Rs own declaration of his income and didnt 
seek to verify it in any way. I realise it wont always be necessary to verify information 
declared by a customer. But I think in the circumstances of this case it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate for Blue Motor to have done so. It seems to think obtaining 
information about his credit commitments from a credit reference agency was sufficient. 
I disagree.
I say this for a few reasons. First, the amount Mr R was seeking to borrow was large. This 
was a relatively long term commitment and a costly one. Without verifying Mr Rs income, 
Blue Motor couldnt be reasonably confident that Mr R was in a position to sustainably repay 
this borrowing over such a term. Second, Blue Motor says that as part of its credit check it 
discovered he had a small default for another debt. I think this ought to have indicated Mr R 
might be more likely to be experiencing some financial difficulty and ought to have warranted 
further exploration.  
I note Blue Motor says Mr R declared the information hed given was true and accurate and 
that he should take responsibility if hed provided inaccurate information. While this may be 
the case, Mr Rs actions dont absolve Blue Motor of its obligations under CONC to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. And ultimately, had it done what the rules 
and guidance required it to do, I think it ought to have discovered Mr Rs true circumstances. 
I cant see that Blue Motor attempted to understand  or even estimate  what Mr Rs non-
discretionary expenditure was outside of the credit commitments it was aware about from his 
credit file. Given all of the reasons Ive already mentioned I think it would have been reasonable to at the very least to have asked him what these costs might have been, or to 
have estimated them in some way. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded Blue Motor completed a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Rs ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr R could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
Its not clear what further evidence Blue Motor would have obtained had it attempted to verify 
Mr Rs income or asked questions about what his committed expenditure was. Ive reviewed 
Mr Rs bank statements for the three months leading up to the application. For clarity, Im not 
suggesting Blue Motor were required to, or ought reasonably to have reviewed Mr Rs bank 
statements. However, in the absence of anything else, I think these give a good indication of 
what information Blue Motor would most likely have discovered if it had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. 
It seems Mr Rs income was significantly lower than had been declared on the application 
form  around half that figure. I havent seen anything to persuade me he would have been 
able to demonstrate an income of £2,000  or anything close to that  had Blue Motor asked 
him to. Blue Motor has also appeared to accept that had it known Mr Rs true income it 
wouldnt have likely lent to him. 
I therefore think a reasonable and proportionate assessment would have revealed that 
Mr Rs declared income wasnt accurate. If Blue Motor at this stage would have still 
contemplated lending to him, I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate for 
them to have also looked to verify his expenditure, rather than relying on just his estimate (or 
theirs). 
Had it done so, I think it would have been clear that Mr R wasnt in a position to sustainably 
afford the hire purchase agreement. After taking into account his rent and regular bills he 
wasnt left with enough to meet the regular monthly repayment for the hire purchase 
agreement. 
Given all of the above, I think had Blue Motor completed reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks it would most likely have discovered that the agreement was 
unaffordable to Mr R. It therefore shouldnt have lent to him and now needs to put things 
right. 
Did Blue Motor act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr R has said Blue Motor didnt treat him fairly when it was looking to repossess the car. 
Blue Motor havent provided any details about what discussions it had with Mr R at this time. 
However, I dont think it makes any difference to the overall outcome Ive reached. 
This is because even if I thought Blue Motor had acted unfairly, I wouldnt be minded to 
award any compensation for the trouble and upset its actions may have caused. The reason 
for this is that when thinking holistically about the complaint Mr R has raised, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to award compensation when Mr R didnt give accurate information 
during the application process and therefore has contributed in some way to the situation he 
found himself in. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Blue Motor ought to have lent to Mr R, I think it should now refund everything he paid under the agreement, minus a deduction for the fair use hes had of the car. 
Generally, as part of any remedy I might direct Mr R to return the car to Blue Motor. 
However, that isnt possible here as Mr R sold it in order to help him settle the finance 
agreement. As Blue Motor ought to have been able to recover those sales costs themselves 
when taking back the car, I think its reasonable that it gets to retain the amount Mr R sold 
the car for. I note that it appears Mr R achieved a reasonable price in line with market 
expectations for a car of that make, model and age. So, I dont think Blue Motor has lost out 
on anything they might otherwise have received. 
There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage might be. But in deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive considered the amount of interest that was charged under the 
agreement, the mileage Mr R covered in the car while in his possession and what costs Mr R 
might have incurred to stay mobile had he never entered into this agreement. In doing so, 
I think £200 per month is fair and reasonable. This means that Blue Motor can retain an 
amount of £3,600 for the usage Mr R had of the car, in addition to the sales price of £4,216. 
Anything Mr R has paid in excess of £7,816 should be treated as an overpayment. 
Blue Motor should refund those overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Blue Motor has said this places Mr R in a better position than he should be in. But I disagree. 
Mr R isnt in possession of the car, so he hasnt acquired a car for less than the initial cash 
price. Instead, he has just paid for the fair hire and use of that car for the 18 months it was in 
his possession. If I were to recommend Mr R pay for the full cash price of the car it would 
mean he would have paid £12,000 for a car he had use of for only 18 months. This is not a 
situation he would ever have been in. 
Lastly, as Mr R should never have entered into this agreement it isnt fair and reasonable for 
Blue Motor to record any adverse information in relation to it on his credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
Refund everything Mr R has paid, minus £3,600 for the fair use he had of the car and 
a further £4,216 for the sales price of the car. 
Add 8% simple interest per year to the above refund from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file. 
If Blue Motor considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it 
should provide Mr R with a certificate showing how much its taken off, so that he can 
reclaim that amount, assuming he is eligible to do so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman