DRN-2215225
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy that Loans 2 Go Limited has asked him to pay back a loan he says he didnt 
apply for.
What happened
In August 2019, an online application was made for a £1,000 loan in Mr Bs name. As part of 
the application, Mr Bs correct date of birth, home address, phone number and email 
address were all provided.
In order to verify the application, Loans 2 Go required a code to be entered into its systems. 
The code was sent to the mobile number that was provided as part of the application. And 
this was entered correctly. 
10 days after the application was successfully approved and the money paid, Loans 2 Go 
received a call from Mr B to explain he didnt recognise the loan and that someone must 
have fraudulently taken it out in his name. The call was made from the same mobile number 
provided in the application. This was also the same number which the verification code had 
been sent to.
Loans 2 Go investigated the matter and decided that as all the details matched, and the 
money had been sent to a bank account in Mr Bs name, he was liable for the loan. 
Unhappy with its response, Mr B asked our service to consider his complaint.
Our investigator felt that Mr B, or someone helping him, had more likely than not applied for 
the loan. This was because there was no obvious explanation how a fraudster couldve 
obtained all the things needed to complete the application.
The investigator also shared Loans 2 Gos concerns about how Mr B wouldve known about 
the loan so soon after the application was made, given it wouldnt have been requesting 
payments at this time nor would the account have been added to his credit report yet. So, he 
though it must have been Mr B that more likely than not took out the loan
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view. He said hed been abroad and had learnt of the 
application when he got the text on his return. So, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid that Mr B will be disappointed to hear that Im not upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
This is a complaint where the evidence points to it being Mr B that took out the loan. All the 
details used were Mr Bs. I appreciate that Mr B says that the account into which the loan 
was paid isnt one that he recognises. But as Ill explain below, this does appear to be his 
bank account.
For a fraudster to have applied for the loan, they wouldve needed to know a significant 
amount of information about Mr B. Weve not been provided with an explanation of how that 
wouldve been possible. But even if this information was somehow known by a third party, 
they would have also needed access to Mr Bs mobile phone to get the verification code, 
which Loans 2 Go has shown was sent to it. Mr Bs phone appears to have been in his 
possession, as hes said he got the text when he got back from abroad. And hes not raised 
any concerns about its whereabouts around the time of the application.
The same phone number was also used to contact Loans 2 Go not long after the loan 
application was made. Because of this, Im satisfied that Mr B more likely than not completed 
the application.
Ive also thought about some of Mr Bs other comments. He told Loans 2 Go that he only 
ever had one bank account. He provided a phone banking screenshot to our service of an 
account with a UK bank in his name. That didnt show the disputed loan amount although, 
because it was of quite poor quality, it was also unclear whether it showed the relevant 
period in any event. As far as I can work out, it may in fact be showing the account activity 
for 2018 and not 2019. And Mr B says its a different account to that which the loan went to 
in any event.
Ive seen a credit check for Mr B at the time of the application. It indicates that Mr B did have 
more than one bank account at the time. And the accounts he had are with the same bank 
that the loan funds were credited to. Mr B also bought another complaint to this service 
about a loan from another provider in May 2019. The evidence we have on that complaint 
includes the same account details for Mr B that the funds from Loans 2 Go were sent to. So, 
I am satisfied that the account that Loans 2 Go paid the loan to was Mr Bs.
I also note that at the time of reporting the disputed loan, Mr B also provided a different email 
address to the one used on the application. He said he didnt recognise the other one. Thats 
strange as he later goes on to use the disputed email address to contact Loans 2 Go as well 
as our service. 
When assessing evidence, the evidential standards used by this service require me to 
determine what more likely than not happened. That is that Im persuaded that something 
was more than 50% likely to have happened in the way described. Here, Im satisfied that Mr 
B more likely than not took out this loan and not a third-party fraudster. So, I wont be 
upholding his complaint.My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. And I wont be making any award 
against Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman