DRN-3869890
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mishandled its 
Bounce Back Loan application and left it unable to access the government-backed scheme.
Miss M is Ms director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
M banked with HSBC, as did Miss M in her personal capacity.
On Ms behalf, Miss M applied to HSBC for a Bounce Back Loan of £45,000 on 12 May 
2020. 
HSBC initially approved Ms request and issued a loan agreement on 11 June 2020, which 
Miss M signed and returned. But the loan funds werent provided. Miss M chased things up 
with HSBC, ultimately by way of complaint  and was told to reapply as the application had 
been cancelled.
Miss M submitted another application on 4 August 2020, this time for a loan of £50,000. 
Having not received a response to the application, Miss M again chased things up with 
HSBC and a further complaint was raised. The bank responded on 9 October to advise that 
the application would be reviewed in due course, with the level of demand causing delays.
Around the same time, HSBC was carrying out a review of its banking relationship with Miss 
M as a personal customer that led it to withdraw its services on or around 7 December 2020. 
In light of the findings of its review, HSBC was unwilling to enter into any further 
arrangements with M  so the companys Bounce Back Loan application didnt proceed. But 
the bank didnt advise Miss M of this, so the application lapsed without her knowledge.
The Bounce Back Loan Scheme closed to new applications on 31 March 2021, with M not 
having managed to obtain a loan.
Miss M doesnt think HSBC treated M fairly. She doesnt understand why the initial 
application for £45,000 was cancelled, particularly given that she had signed and returned 
the loan agreement. She says the bank then failed to update her on the subsequent 
application, leaving M unable to apply elsewhere and ultimately missing out on a loan under 
the Scheme altogether.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, setting out why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld in part and inviting both parties to send me anything else they wanted me 
to take into account before I made a final decision. I said: 
I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in  eventually  deciding that it didnt wish to 
lend to M. But there were errors in how it handled the companys applications that 
caused unreasonable delays and inconvenience and so, on that basis, I currently 
think the complaint should be upheld in part. 
Looking firstly at HSBCs decision to decline Ms application, I find this to have been 
reasonable as:
Irrespective of whether M met the eligibility criteria for a Bounce Back Loan, 
the decision to lend still rested ultimately with the lender. 
In reaching that decision, lenders were required to carry out certain checks on 
applications including fraud, anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer 
checks. 
The information on which HSBC based its decision shows that Ms application 
failed these checks. Having reviewed this, I think it was a legitimate basis for 
the banks decision.
Although HSBC initially approved Ms application, it wasnt unconditionally 
bound to provide the loan funds. The bank was entitled to terminate the loan 
agreement that M had signed in certain circumstances, and Im satisfied that 
it was reasonable to do so in light of the findings of its review.
I understand Miss M finds the banks decision difficult to accept as it hasnt disclosed 
the specifics of its rationale. But HSBC isnt required to share any more detail about 
its reasons than it already has. And I cant fairly require that it do so.
All of that being said, there were clear shortcomings in the service HSBC provided to 
M. It isnt entirely clear to me when the bank initiated its review of Miss Ms personal 
account, which ultimately led to its decision to decline Ms application. But from what 
Ive seen, it had decided by late April 2020 to end its relationship with Miss M. So it 
seems to me that it ought therefore to have declined Ms application at the outset. As 
it didnt, Miss M quite reasonably had no cause to consider that M would be unable to 
obtain a loan from HSBC and so persisted in her application.
In approving Ms initial application, Miss M reasonably expected the funds to be 
provided shortly thereafter. So when they werent, she spent time and effort chasing 
things up with the bank. It seems that HSBC cancelled the application  correctly, 
given what Ive said above  but then told Miss M to reapply. So she did. The bank 
then failed to respond to that application at all  with Miss M left unaware that Ms 
application had been declined.
Ive thought carefully about the impact that these errors had on M. Miss M said it left 
the company unable to access the Loan Scheme. And I have some sympathy for this 
argument. Applicants could only have one application pending at any one time. So 
while she had cause to believe that HSBC was still considering Ms request, she was 
unable to apply elsewhere.
At the same time, I think there ought reasonably to have come a time when Miss M 
understood that the application wasnt proceeding. The last application was made on 
4 August. Miss M referred her concerns to us in mid-January 2021, by which time I 
think she had grounds to consider that the application had been unsuccessful. The 
Scheme was open until the end of March 2021, so I dont think its unreasonable to suggest that she couldve attempted to apply elsewhere in light of the lack of a 
response from HSBC. 
In any event, I dont think I can say with any certainty that M wouldve been 
successful in an application elsewhere. Very few lenders were accepting applications 
from new customers, so Ms options wouldve been limited. Theres little evidence to 
suggest that M met the eligibility criteria and, even if it did, that its application 
wouldve passed another lenders checks. I think its most likely that other lenders 
wouldve reached the same decision as HSBC.
So while I think HSBC made an error in failing to confirm to M that it had declined the 
companys application, I dont think this deprived the company of a Bounce Back 
Loan. 
The shortcomings in the banks service did, however, cause the company some 
avoidable inconvenience. Miss M had to chase the bank up on a number of 
occasions over a period of several months and submit an additional application. And 
with matters unresolved, she raised two complaints and referred the matter to us. 
None of this ought to have been necessary. I can see that this wouldve taken Miss M 
away from the companys operations, thereby causing it inconvenience. So to 
compensate M for this, I intend to require HSBC to pay it £300.
HSBC accepted my provisional decision. M didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no further information for me to take into account following my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my initial conclusions. So this decision 
simply confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay M £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman