DRN-2272975
The complaint
Mr O has complained Vanquis Bank Limited charged him for a cash machine withdrawal 
when he didnt get the cash. This resulted in Mr O being charged late payment and over-limit 
fees and this eventually led to a default on his credit record.
What happened
In March 2018 Mr O used his Vanquis credit card to withdraw £300 from a cash machine. He 
didnt get the money. Mr O contacted Vanquis Bank. They initiated a chargeback under the 
card scheme rules and credited money back to Mr Os credit card account. They confirmed 
to Mr O that he shouldnt withdraw or use the £300 credit as they may be obliged to debit 
him again.
Vanquis later believed theyd got sufficient evidence under the chargeback rules to show the 
money had been dispensed from the cash machine. They re-debited Mr Os account in 
August 2018.  
Over the next few months Mr O found himself in increasing financial difficulties. Vanquis set 
up a number of different six-month payment arrangements but Mr O was never able to make 
any payment. Vanquis subsequently defaulted Mr Os account on 29 March 2019.
Mr O brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He felt the dispute over £300 started 
all this off. He wanted the default and related charges to also be removed.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. She believed Vanquis hadnt been able to provide 
us with enough evidence to demonstrate for sure that money had been dispensed from the 
cash machine. However she didnt believe the subsequent charges and defaults were all 
related to this aspect. She asked Vanquis to re-credit £300 to Mr Os account and provide 
him with £100 compensation for the trouble caused.
Vanquis accepted this outcome. Mr O didnt. He pointed out another investigator had 
believed the default should be removed. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for roughly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Im not going to cover all the points raised in the views in detail. The views of 9 July and 28 
August 2020 explain the regulations which guide how we review these cases, as well as 
covering further detail about what happened and when. 
No discourtesy is intended by me not covering all issues. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think are the key matters here and which impact the decision Im making. Our rules allow me 
to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. I will, of course, refer to those issues which have an impact on the outcome of this 
complaint.
Cash machine dispute
I agree with the outcome our investigator reached. I appreciate our requirements to see as 
much evidence as possible to show the money was dispensed can cause issues. Particularly 
as Vanquis will have worked to the requirements under the card scheme chargeback rules 
and believed these had been satisfied. However taking into account, Mr Os evidence why 
he needed this money and his subsequent withdrawal of the same amount, I believe this 
does suggest the cash wasnt dispensed initially.
Vanquis has accepted our view on this in an email to us on 21 September 2020. 
Charges and default
Mr Os argument is that the charges added to his account after the £300 disputed 
transaction caused his later issues with repayment. This meant various charges  late 
payment and over-limit fees  were added to his account. As Mr O had increasing financial 
difficulties he was unable to make further repayments. This was despite Vanquis and him 
discussing different payment arrangements to minimise the financial impact on him.
Firstly Ive checked Mr Os credit limit. Mr O has told us his credit limit was £1,000. Ive 
reviewed his statements and dont believe this was the case. From the opening of Mr Os 
account in 2014 until the statement dated 11 February 2018, his credit limit was £150. After 
that date Mr Os credit limit was increased to £550 and this is confirmed on his statement 
dated 11 March 2018.  
That statement shows Mr O had not made a payment towards the previous months 
statement. He had £280.78 available to spend. Vanquis refunded a late payment charge and 
Mr O credited £20 to his account on 13 March 2018. However I believe its clear that along 
with the £300 withdrawal on 15 March and online transactions done the same day, Mr Os 
account went over limit. The statement of 10 April shows £300 being debited and then re-
credited. But Mr Os account stood at £577.44 so I believe Mr O was already over his limit.  
Payments were made towards Mr Os credit card account on 13 and 26 March. But then no 
further payments were made until 11 June 2018. It seems to me that Mr Os financial 
difficulties had already started and it wasnt just £300 being re-debited in August 2018 which 
caused his problems.
Ive reviewed all the contacts between Vanquis and Mr O when he started discussing 
alternative payment arrangements with them. I can see three different arrangements were 
set up but Mr O was unable to make any payment. Vanquis had sent Mr O a notice of their intention to default on 16 November 2018. A default was added to Mr Os credit record on 
29 March 2019.
I note Mr Os evidence that hed been turned down for jobs because of his credit record. I 
can see from the evidence he provided he may not have got jobs hed applied for but theres 
nothing to show this was only down to his credit record.
Overall having considered the evidence, I dont believe Mr Os default and payment 
problems can be traced back to the transaction for withdrawing £300.
I am, therefore, asking Vanquis to sort out what they agreed in September 2020 as I believe 
that is a fair and reasonable resolution.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to:
Credit £300 to Mr Os credit card account for the disputed cash machine transaction;
Rework Mr Os credit card account as if that transaction had never taken place after it 
was re-debited in August 2018;
Refund any charges and fees associated with this transaction; and
Pay £100 to Mr O for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman