DRN-2782497
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains about how One Sure Insurance Limited administered his 
commercial motor insurance policy so that it was cancelled by the underwriter. This 
complaint is brought on Gs behalf by Mr A, its director. 
What happened
Mr A bought a motor trade policy through One Sure and provided the required documents, 
including proof of his No Claims Bonus (NCB). But the insurer later sent Mr A seven days 
notice of cancellation due to him not providing acceptable proof of NCB. Mr A was unhappy 
because he said his business suffered and he holds One Sure accountable. He wants fair 
compensation. Mr A was also unhappy with how his refund had been calculated. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
underwriter had asked One Sure to provide an accessible copy of Mr As NCB, but it hadnt 
actioned this. She thought Mr A had been able to find alternative cover elsewhere. She 
thought One Sure should pay G £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. But she 
thought One Sure had provided Mr A with the correct refund.
Mr A thought he should be provided with a full refund. One Sure said it hadnt received an 
email from the underwriter asking for the NCB to be re-sent. It said it wasnt responsible for 
the cancellation. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to 
me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with its terms 
of business and fairly and reasonably.
When Mr A took out his policy, I can see that One Sure forwarded his documents by email to 
the underwriter. But the attachment for the proof of NCB was damaged and the underwriter 
couldnt access it. 
In response to our services request, the underwriter has provided evidence that it then 
emailed One Sure asking it to resend the NCB document as it couldnt be opened. One Sure 
said it didnt receive this email. But I can see that it was sent to the correct address. And so I 
think it should have acted on it. As it didnt take any action, I think One Sure was responsible 
for Gs policy being cancelled. 
Mr A said the cancellation had caused him months of suffering. I can understand that, but as 
the complaint has been brought on behalf of a limited company, under the rules that guide 
us I cant consider compensation for distress. I can only consider compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to G by the cancellation. 
Mr A said hed not been able to trade due to the cancellation and suffered consequent 
losses. But Ive not seen evidence to support this. I can see that two days after the policy 
was cancelled, the underwriter offered to reinstate the policy. But Mr A told the underwriter 
he had obtained alternative cover and so the underwriter couldnt reinstate his policy. 
From what I can see, Mr A ceased his trading and so I dont have evidence to hold One Sure 
responsible for his financial difficulties. I think that if the cancellation on his record is having a 
continued effect on Mr As ability to obtain cover, then he should take this up with the 
underwriter. 
Mr A had paid a total of £1,402.72 for his cover when it was cancelled. One Sure gave him a 
refund of £542.57. But Mr A wanted a full refund. However, I dont think this would be fair. 
The underwriter charged One Sure £689.30 for Gs time on cover for three months. I think it 
was reasonable for G to pay for the time when the underwriter was at risk. 
So the refund paid to One Sure was £771.80. Both parties waived their cancellation fees. 
The difference between this and the refund paid to Mr A was due to the interest payment on 
his loan for the premium. One Sure has shown that Mr A received more than the refund he 
was strictly entitled to, so I dont require it to pay him any further refund.
Putting things right
I think G was put to inconvenience due to the cancellation and because it had to find 
alternative cover at short notice. The investigator recommended that One Sure should pay G 
£100 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar 
circumstances. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require One Sure Insurance Limited to pay G £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by its administration of its policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman