DRN-4424848
The complaint
Mr S is complaining about the amount esure Insurance Limited has paid to settle a claim he 
made on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ss car was damaged in an accident, so he contacted esure to make a claim through his 
car insurance policy. esure declared the car a total loss and it said it would settle the claim 
by paying him the cars market value, less his excess. It valued the car at £7,438. Mr S didnt 
think that was a fair valuation, so he referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said esure had assessed the case by reviewing 
four market value guides. However he said this Service has access to a fifth guide and he 
thought Mr S had lost out because esure hadnt used all the guides available. He said the 
lowest guide valuation was out of line with all the other guides, so shouldnt be taken into 
consideration. But he thought the other four guides fell into two brackets. And he thought the 
higher two guides were a fairer reflection of the market value. So he thought esure should 
increase its valuation to £8,337.
esure didnt agreed with the investigators opinion as it disagreed that three of the guides 
should be discarded. It did agree one was out of line of the others, however, it thought the 
fairest way to value the car was to take an average of the remaining four guides. So it 
offered to increase the valuation to £7,918.25  an increase of £480.25.
I issued a provisional decision and I said I thought esures latest valuation was fair and I said 
the following:
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual car is. We look at 
whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the car fairly. Its 
standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market 
value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuation the guides give are 
based on the advertised prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the 
time of loss. But I would also expect an insurer to also consider all other evidence available 
to it.
esure assessed the value of Mr S's car by using four valuation guides which produced 
valuation figures of £6,660 (figure one), £7,499 (figure two), £7,500 (figure three) and 
£8,094 (figure four) respectively. However, this Service has also obtained a fifth valuation 
which produced a valuation figure of £8,580 (figure five). 
Ive thought about whether all guides should be used or any discounted as being out of line. 
All parties have agreed that figure one is out of line of all the others so should be discarded. I 
agree with this. The issue for me to decide is whether figures two and three should also be 
discarded. I dont think they should. Where there is a significant different range in valuations  
the guides give  as we have in this case  I would expect esure to also consider how much 
cars were selling for at the time by consider available empirical evidence (such as adverts). 
It should then also compare this against the valuations given. In this case, one of the 
valuation guides it provided this Service included a list of advertised cars available at the 
time of the incident. So I would have expected esure to have taken this into account. 
However, Im also conscious that Mr Ss car had travelled around 100,000 miles and many 
of the adverts for similar cars for sale were for cars that had travelled less than Mr Ss had. 
So Im not persuaded the adverts Ive seen are entirely reflective of the cars market value. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think its fair to consider all the valuation guides, 
which the exception of figure one. So I think esures latest valuation  in response to the 
investigators opinion  of £7,918.25 is a fairer valuation of Mr Ss cars market value. So Im 
inclined to say esure should pay a further £480.25 (plus simple interest). 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators opinion and, in summary, raised the following points:
He thinks the valuation now being presented reflects the cars market value at the date of 
this decision  around 12 months after the date of loss. So he still doesnt believe its a 
fair reflection of the cars market value at the time of loss.
He said hed just put on a brand new set of tyres on the car, full service history and spent 
thousands on maintenance or the car.
He says the cars market value should represent what he would have to pay to get a car 
of the same type, model, variant and the optional extras that were with the car and the 
car sourced at least within 100 miles of where he lives.
He provided three adverts of similar cars which he says supports that he couldnt replace 
the car for the amount esure is valuing the car at.
He doesnt think the guides reflect that the cars sell for nearer the asking price  i.e. 
there isnt any form of negotiation in the advertised prices. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mr Ss comments into consideration, but Ive come to the same conclusion as I did 
in my provisional decision. The valuations the guides give reflect the market value they 
considered Mr Ss car to be at the date of loss  i.e. not at the current date. I note Mr S says 
that he couldnt replace the car for the amount esure is offering, but esure isnt required to 
replace the car, but the market value is what the car would sell for. 
I understand Mr Ss statement that he couldnt replace the car, but it needs to be 
remembered that his car had a higher than average mileage which has an impact on the 
cars market value. As I said in my provisional decision, I was able to see a list of similar cars 
available for sale at the date of loss. I recognise that a number of the advertised prices were 
advertised for higher than £7,918.25 but they also had a lower mileage. And I havent seen 
anything to say that the valuation guides arent a fair way to assess the expect sale price of 
Mr Ss car.
I recognise Mr S had maintained the car and paid to put new tyres on the car etc. But these 
are costs that one would reasonably expect to have to complete with owning a used car. 
Ultimately I remain of the opinion that £7,918.25 is a fair reflection of Mr Ss cars market 
value and I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached before.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr S a further £480.25, plus 8% simple interest per 
year on this from when it paid the initial settlement until it pays the further £480.25. If esure Insurance Limited thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman