DRN-1237375
 
The complaint
Mr T is complaining that he thinks a car The Asset Exchange Ltd  t/a The Car Loan Centre 
(CLC)  provided him under a hire purchase agreement was of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr T entered into a hire purchase agreement with CLC to acquire a car. 
The cash price of the car was around £7,500, it was around six years old and had travelled 
around 85,000 miles at the point of supply.
Around two weeks after he received the car, he noticed a small oil leak and he reported this 
to CLC. However a week later, when driving his son back from the airport, he says a warning 
message came on and said the engine was shutting down. The car was recovered to a 
garage chosen by CLC who diagnosed the issue was down to a loose sump plug which had 
caused further issues with the turbo. The garage resolved this and also said it had fixed the 
turbo. 
CLC provided Mr T with a number of courtesy cars during this time, but Mr T was unhappy 
with two of them. He says one of them was delivered without coolant, so he had to add 
coolant at his expense. And he says the last one he was given had a three-litre engine, 
whereas his car was only a two-litre. So he says the courtesy car was too expensive to drive.
In December 2019 CLC returned the car to Mr T, but he said there continued to be issues 
with the engine. He didnt think it had the same performance it previously had  in particular 
he said the car didnt accelerate as it should do. He reported this issue to CLC who asked 
him to get an engineer report at his expense. But it said it would refund the cost of the report 
if it showed there was a fault. Mr T didnt think he should have to pay for this.
In April 2019 Mr T contacted CLC to complain again about the cars performance and he 
said he wasnt going to pay anything towards the finance until the car was fixed. CLC agreed 
to send the car back to the repairing garage for an inspection. And it provided Mr T with a 
courtesy car. But the garage said it couldnt find a fault with the car. Mr T didnt agree with 
this and asked for a copy of the diagnostic tests. He also complained CLC had issued a 
default notice on his account for non-payment. He said he wanted to reject the car. 
CLC agreed to send the car to another garage for a further inspection. But this garage also 
said it couldnt find any faults and it thought the car was running as expected having done a 
road test. CLC wrote to Mr T following this to say there wasnt anything to show there was a 
fault with the car, so it didnt think he was entitled to reject it. And it asked Mr T to collect his 
car. It also arranged to collect the courtesy car it gave him.
Mr T maintained there was a fault with the car, so he didnt collect it. He said he was a 
mechanic and explained what he thought the issues may be. And he said diagnostic tests 
wont always show the issues. CLC still didnt think Mr T was entitled to reject the car. So he 
referred his complaint to this service. Since Mr T referred his complaint to this service CLC 
repossessed the car.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said consumers have a short-term right to 
reject a car within the first 30 days of receiving it. But she said, given Mr T chose to repair 
the car, he wasnt then able to reject the car unless the repair wasnt successful. And she 
said she didnt think shed seen enough to show the repair wasnt successful. The 
investigator also acknowledged Mr T had raised concerns about the amount CLC charged to 
repossess the car. But she said this needed to be raised with CLC separately.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators opinion. He maintained that it wasnt his responsibility to 
provide a report at his expense for an unfit car. He also didnt think it was fair to accept an 
opinion from the garage who did the original repair. He also highlighted that he asked for the 
diagnostic report that was carried out a number of times, but he never received it.
Mr T maintained the repair wasnt carried out to his satisfaction so he should be allowed to 
reject the car. He says the two independent garages CLC sent the car to, do work for CLC. 
So he queried how independent they were. He said hed been an electronic and mechanical 
engineer for 30 years and maintained that its not reasonable to just rely on diagnostic 
reports.
As Mr T didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
Mr T has raised a number of reasons why hes unhappy with CLC. Ive read and considered 
everything hes raised. Ive not commented on each and every point hes raised. But instead 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues. No discourtesy is meant by this, but simply 
reflects the informal nature of this service.
Mr T acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implies a term into the hire purchase agreement that the car 
must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, CLC is responsible for 
the quality of the car its provided under the agreement. Theres no dispute that there was a 
fault with the car. And it appears CLC arranged to have this repaired under the extended 
warranty Mr T bought when he acquired the car. But Mr T says this repair didnt fully resolve 
the issue.
Under the CRA, where a car is of unsatisfactory quality within the first 30 days, Mr T had the 
choice to either exercise a short-term right to reject the car or ask CLC to fix it. Mr T chose to 
ask CLC to fix the car. The CRA sets out that, once Mr T has asked CLC to fix the car, he 
cant subsequently choose to reject it unless he can show that the repair was unsuccessful. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, 
but I need to decide whether that breach of contract is likely to have been put right by the 
subsequent repair.
I note Mr T is unhappy CLC initially asked him to pay for an independent report because he 
doesnt think he should have had to incur this cost for a car he didnt consider to be 
satisfactory quality. But it wasnt unreasonable for CLC to ask this as, strictly speaking, it 
was for Mr T to show there was a fault with the car, not for CLC to show that there wasnt. 
But, ultimately, I need to think whether, based on all the evidence both parties have 
provided, its most likely there continued to be a fault with the car.
Mr T has provided detailed testimony based on his own knowledge and experience and from 
also speaking to other dealerships about what he thinks could be causing the alleged reduction in performance. Ive noted and considered what hes provided. But Im also 
conscious that two separate garages have carried out diagnostic tests to the car and couldnt 
find a fault with it. The second garage also advised CLC that it carried out two separate road 
tests and considered the car was driving as it should.
I note Mr T has said we cant just rely on diagnostic reports in assessing whether a car was 
working as it should. But, other than his testimony, I dont think hes provided anything to say 
the conclusions of the two respective garages were unfair. And, ultimately, I dont think Ive 
seen enough to conclude that the repair carried out wasnt successful. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for CLC to say that Mr T didnt have the right to reject the car.
I can see Mr T did ask CLC a number of times to provide a copy of the diagnostic report the 
first garage carried out, but it didnt do so. I think that was a fair request and CLC should 
have provided this. But I dont think Mr T has lost out as a result of this as I dont think the 
situation would be any different if it had provided the report. I can also see CLC did 
subsequently offer to provide it, but Mr T said he didnt want it then because of how long had 
passed. 
I acknowledge Mr T didnt think he should have to pay for a car that he didnt think was 
working correctly. And hes unhappy that CLC applied default markers to his account. But he 
was contractually required to keep up with his monthly repayments, even though he had 
concerns in respect to his car. So it wasnt unreasonable that CLC applied default markers 
when it did. 
Ultimately, I havent seen enough to say CLC has treated Mr T unfairly since the car was 
returned to him in December 2019. So I dont think it needs to do anything further to put 
things right.
I note Mr T has also raised concerns about the amount CLC has charged to repossess the 
car. But he raised these after he brought the complaint to this service. So hell need to raise 
this with CLC first before we can consider this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman