DRN-4305922
The complaint
Mr O complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money turned down his Section 
75 claim .He would like a full refund of tickets he purchased, and compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Os frustration. He says he ordered concert seat tickets but was 
allocated standing tickets. He doesnt feel that Virgin Money properly investigated his 
complaint
For a  Section 75 claim to succeed there needs to be evidence of either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. Virgin Moneys customer contact notes are limited in 
detail but confirm Mr O contacted Virgin Money  to make  a claimin November 2022, 
was sent a form to complete which he returned with the information Virgin Money 
needed.  Virgin Money declined the Section 75 claim in December 2022. 
The information Mr O supplied confirmed, in May 2022,  his purchase of Section 
Stalls, Row, Seat(s), (2 tickets(s)). Although the confirmation notes seats it doesnt 
specify a row or seat number which I would have expected it to do if Mr O had 
purchased specific seats not standing tickets. Our investigator checked the site map 
for the event which shows the Stalls area is for standing ticket holders which is what 
Mr O got. 
Mr O also supplied an email from the merchant dated 11 November 2022 confirming 
his tickets were ready and that its sales are final, and no refunds, cancellations or 
exchanges can be made to the tickets. It doesnt seem Virgin Money put Mr Os claim 
to the merchant which I might have expected it to. However,Virgin Money would have 
needed distinct evidence of a breach of contract to do so and I dont think it had this. 
Mr O  hasnt, for example, provided any evidence to show what was on the site when 
he booked the tickets to confirm that he booked seats not standing tickets. I do think 
Virgin Money investigated Mr Os claim but didnt have sufficient evidence of a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation to pursue it. So, on this basis I cant 
reasonably ask it to refund the cost of Mr Os tickets as he has requested. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman