DRN-3429487
The complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial 
Services (VWFS) didnt provide him with reasonable options when he contacted it following a 
change in his financial circumstances.
What happened
Mr M entered a 36 month hire agreement with VWFS in July 2019 to lease a car. His 
circumstances changed and he contacted VWFS in June 2020 about the options available to 
him. He doesnt think he was given a reasonable set of options. He says the car had been 
driven substantially less than allowed and he thought this should be reflected in reduced 
payments or an amount being refunded. 
VWFS issued its final response in October 2021 not upholding Mr Ms complaint. It said 
when Mr M contacted it in June 2020 explaining the change in his circumstances it provided 
him with options of a payment deferral, payment plan, breathing space, early termination and 
a mileage amendment. It says Mr M asked for a mileage amendment quote to be generated 
which happened on 6 August 2020. It says the quote confirmed the new monthly rentals to 
be £266 a month saving Mr M just over £200 to the end of his agreement in July 2022. It 
says it wasnt required to offer the mileage reduction and provided further information about 
how it was calculated. 
Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said he asked for the 
mileage quote to understand his options but there was a charge to make the change and the 
minimum amount of reduction was 5,000 miles a year and so this didnt make sense for him. 
He said there was no mention of payment holiday other than the affect this could have on his 
credit file. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought that VWFS had provided Mr M 
with reasonable options when he contacted it in June 2020. She noted that Mr M didnt think 
the mileage reduction quote was fair but said the VWFS werent required to provide this 
option to him and noted the payments under the agreement werent just linked to mileage 
but also depreciation, finance and other charges. She noted that Mr M had maintained his 
payments under the agreement. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that as the mileage allowance would 
have been reduced by 50% for the whole term and so the payments should have been 
reduced by 50% from August 2020. He said that just because he had made his payment this 
didnt mean that doing so hadnt caused him financial difficulty. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator set out there are rules and guidance in place about how businesses 
should treat customers who are struggling financially and additional guidance was 
introduced in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr M says that he initially couldnt get through to VWFS when he needed to discuss his 
options and that when he did get through the options provide werent reasonable. I have 
looked through the contact notes and I can see that Mr M made contact in June 2020 and 
was initially given information about amending the mileage on his agreement. Mr M made 
contact again to say he wanted his options given he was facing redundancy. At this point he 
was provided with a range of options, namely a payment deferral, payment plan, breathing 
space and an early termination. So, while I appreciate Mr Ms comments, I find he was 
provided with the options we would expect given the circumstances and the relevant 
guidance.
Mr M says that terminating the agreement wasnt an option for him at the time and he was 
concerned about the impact the payment holiday could have on his credit file. While I 
appreciate the points Mr M has made, I cannot see that these options (or breathing space 
and payment plan) were discussed further. As the options were put to Mr M I find he was 
given the opportunity to consider these had he wished.
Mr M was provided with a quote for the mileage reduction in August 2020. I understand he 
doesnt think this was reasonable. However, this was only an option and not one that Mr M 
was required to take or that VWFS was required to provide. Therefore, while I appreciate the 
comments Mr M has made, I do not find that I can say VWFS has done anything wrong in 
regard to the quote. In its final response letter VWFS provided information about how the 
calculations were made and additional quotes. Therefore, while I can understand that Mr M 
doesnt consider the reduction in price reasonable compared with the reduced mileage 
allowance, I have nothing to suggest that VWFS didnt follow its usual process for providing 
the quote and so I cannot say that it treated Mr M unfairly.
I appreciate that Mr M says the car will be handed back with a mileage lower than the 
amount allowed but the agreement doesnt provide for any refund in these circumstances 
and so I do not find I can require VWFS to provide this.  
In conclusion, I find in this case VWFS provided the options that we would expect in 
response to Mr Ms request, and as I cannot say that it has done anything wrong I do not find 
I can uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman