DRN-2336900
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Skipton Building Society (Skipton), mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in or around June 1999 and again in 2002 when 
they re-mortgaged their home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a joint mortgage in 1999. At the same time, they bought a PPI policy 
in Mr Ts name only. The policy initially cost £22.97 monthly and provided a benefit of £470 
which would have been paid for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Later in 2002 Mr and Mrs T took out some further borrowing. This time the policy cost 
was £17.76 and would have paid a monthly benefit of £530. This policy was also in 
Mr Ts name only.
Mr and Mrs T say when they applied for the mortgage with Skipton, they were advised 
that the PPI was a condition of the mortgage being granted. They had to take it out 
even though they didnt require any of Skiptons insurance products. They have paid 
premiums over a period of time even though the insurance was not needed.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with this 
view and asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
In October 2020, I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained why I wasnt intending 
to uphold this complaint. But I wanted to explain why in some more detail than our 
adjudicator. An extract of my provisional decision is set out below and forms part of my 
final decision.
Im not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I know this will be disappointing so I will 
explain why in some more detail than our adjudicator.
The crux of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is that without taking out the PPI cover they wouldnt have 
been able to get the mortgage. So, the first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr and Mrs T were 
given a choice about buying the policy.
Ive looked at the available paperwork from the time of the sale. Skipton has provided a copy of the 
completed mortgage application in 1999. On it theres a section about the PPI. I see from the 
mortgage application form, that PPI was strongly recommended. I dont think this showed the PPI 
was compulsory from this wording. I think this was a general recommendation to consider buying 
the cover rather than meaning that they had no choice. I can see Mr and Mrs T have ticked a box to 
show they werent arranging to take out PPI elsewhere and another one to show they wanted to 
purchase Skiptons PPI cover in Mr Ts name for 100 percent of the repayments. This form was 
signed and dated by both Mr and Mrs T on 8 May 1999.
Another form headed Your Mortgage has also been completed on 1 June 1999. Theres a section 
on this form which is headed Insurance Cover. Below the paperwork states: Is it a condition of this 
mortgage that insurance be purchased from the Society? The box yes has been ticked. This is 
followed on the form by a further question: If so, has the level of cover and the minimum period for 
which this cover must be maintained been explained? The box yes has been ticked. The form has 
been signed and dated by Mr and Mrs T.
The offer of advance confirms in the special conditions that the product is subject to the borrower 
taking out and maintaining for a minimum of 3 years from the portable term start date, one of the 
following: Skipton House and Contents Insurance, Skipton Homeplan Insurance or Skipton Assured. 
Theres a tick next to this part of the form and it is also been marked ASU. So, it seems to me that 
they only had to take out PPI if they didnt choose either the House and Contents insurance or the 
Homeplan Insurance. It appears Mr and Mrs T didnt need to take all three products out - just one of 
the three products for a term of three years. And it also appears that Mr and Mrs T chose to take out 
the cover in Mr Ts name only. Mr and Mrs T could have chosen another product if they didnt want 
the PPI which would have equally fulfilled the condition set out on the mortgage. It also looks likely 
that in 1999 Mr and Mrs T knew they were taking out the cover and were agreeable to doing so.
The further advance application form has been completed setting out details of Mr and Mrs Ts 
employment, contact details and their income. Mr and Mrs T have signed this paperwork on 9 June 
2002 - just over three years from the first mortgage. There is also a section about the PPI. Mr and 
Mrs T have completed this section confirming they wanted the Skipton Assured cover. There was 
also the option to leave the insurance. A form has been completed confirming that a PPI policy was 
already in place with Skipton and confirming all the key features had been explained and that Mr and 
Mrs T understood, and that the policy was suitable.
Next, I have considered the offer of further advance sent to Mr and Mrs T. Under the heading 
Compulsory Insurance it states: Your selected products is/are:  Skipton Assured. It goes on to 
say, The compulsory Insurance period applicable for this product is 5 years from the end of the 
month in which completion takes place. So, it seems Mr and Mrs T chose the PPI here and this 
appears to be the compulsory insurance they chose to take out.
Sometimes PPI policies were sold as compulsory in order to get a particular rate or a specific 
mortgage deal. This is what seems to have happened here. In order to get the mortgage deal 
Mr and Mrs T seem to have had a choice about which sort of insurance they chose, albeit 
they had to choose one of the options. It looks like they chose the PPI. There was nothing 
wrong in Skipton making a policy compulsory as it can decide the terms on which it is 
prepared to lend. There was nothing wrong in that as Mr and Mrs T could have chosen a 
different mortgage product or a different type of insurance if they did not want the PPI. So, its 
probable that Mr and Mrs T had accepted the PPI in order to get the particular mortgage. If 
they hadnt wanted to take out the cover, as I explained they could have chosen the 
alternative insurance or an alternative mortgage product and declined the cover.
It is of course possible that Skipton filled in some or all of the paperwork and that Mr and Mrs T 
simply signed the forms that they were given. However, looking at the paperwork and given the 
choices they made about PPI, I would have expected them to read through the forms before 
signing them. So, I think its likely they would have known they had the option not to buy the PPI if 
they didnt want to. But it seems to me likely they decided to go ahead and buy the PPI rather than 
any other type of insurance offered as part of the mortgage condition.
Mr and Mrs T say the policy was sold during a meeting and they were advised to take it out. Ive 
seen that Skipton also says that this was an advised sale. That means Skipton needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that the policy was suitable for their situation. Skipton also had to 
give Mr and Mrs T enough clear information so that they could make an informed choice about 
buying the cover.
To help me decide whether the policy was suitable, Ive looked at their circumstances and 
thought about the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr T (the person who the PPI covered) was eligible for the cover and I cant see that he would have 
been affected by any of the policys main exclusions and limitations, such as those relating to 
unusual employment circumstances or having a pre-existing medical condition. So, I think Mr T 
could have made a successful claim on the policy had he needed to.The PPI policy would have covered Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage payments for up to 12 months if Mr T 
made a successful claim. Mr T told us he was entitled to good benefits from his employer of up to 6 
months. He also told us he had some savings to hand at the time. He says they had over £7,000 
which was easily accessible, and they had some Company shares. Theyve also told us about an 
endowment policy taken out in 1993 on a previous mortgage. They continued paying into the policy 
until 2018 when the policy matured. They have explained that they could have surrendered this 
policy at any time if they needed to.
Overall, from what Ive seen I think Mr T would still have benefited from having the PPI cover. This 
policy would have paid out in addition to any benefits he had from work and likely for longer. The PPI 
would have prevented him from having to cash in his endowment policy before its maturity date or 
sell his Company shares. And any savings they had could have been used for other essential 
expenses at what no doubt would have been a difficult time financially if Mr T couldnt work or lost 
his job. If Mr T couldnt work the household income would have reduced substantially and taking into 
consideration that the PPI protected Mr and Mrs Ts home., I think the PPI could have been useful 
and was suitable for them. Their home would be at risk were they to fall behind on their mortgage 
payments and the PPI would probably have provided stability and reassurance if Mr T was unable to 
work.
The insurance cost appears to have been reasonable value for the benefit it provided, and I    
havent seen anything to make me think that Mr and Mrs T couldnt afford it.
Although Im not sure that Skipton gave Mr and Mrs T all the information it should have done, I     
dont think better information would have made Mr and Mrs T change their mind about buying 
the cover.
Overall, having looked at their complaint with care, as things stand, I dont find Mr and Mrs T 
were mis-sold the PPI. So, Im sorry to disappoint them but Im not intending to uphold this 
complaint.
I asked both parties to come back to me with anything further they wished me to 
consider before making my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Following my provisional decision Skipton has confirmed it had no further points or 
information to add before I made my final decision. 
Mr and Mrs T have confirmed they received my provisional decision. They said that although 
they were unhappy with the outcome, they understood my provisional decision. Mrs T also 
explained that at the time, she worked for a large insurance company and as she had 
preferential rates on the contents and buildings insurance it made no sense to take out these 
types of insurance - only the MPPI. 
I accept what theyve told me but although this might have been the situation, as Ive 
explained in my provisional decision Mr and Mrs T had to take out one of three types of 
insurance policy in order to secure their mortgage and further advance.
And I explained in my provisional decision that sometimes PPI policies were sold as 
compulsory in order to get a particular rate or a specific mortgage deal. There was nothing 
wrong in Skipton making a policy compulsory as it can decide the terms on which it is 
prepared to lend. Mr and Mrs T could have chosen a different mortgage product or a 
different type of insurance if they did not want the PPI. So, its probable that Mr and Mrs T had accepted the PPI in order to get the mortgage they wanted. If they hadnt wanted to take 
out the cover, as I explained they could have chosen the alternative insurance or an 
alternative mortgage product and declined the cover.
I also explained why taking everything into account, I thought the PPI was suitable and could 
have been useful to them. So I see no reason to depart from my findings set out in my 
provisional decision.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T but I hope my explanation gives some clarity about why 
I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman