DRN-2605959
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
It looks like Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy in 1994 at the same time they purchased 
their mortgage. There is very limited information available, but it looks like the policy was in 
Mr Cs name only and they paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Nationwide disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in 
January 2021, explaining why I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. Heres what I said:
Mr and Mrs C say they werent aware that the PPI was a separate product. Nationwide 
should have taken reasonable steps to make Mr and Mrs C aware that they had a choice 
about buying the PPI. Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any documentation from the 
sale, which isnt surprising considering this took place such a long time ago.
So, Ive looked at everything we know about how Nationwide normally sold PPI around that 
time. And based on what we know about such sales, consumers were usually asked to 
choose whether or not they wanted PPI. There is nothing to suggest Nationwide didnt follow 
its normal procedures. So, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs C were given a choice and 
they chose to buy the policy, even if they dont remember this now, many years later.
In our experience, Nationwide didnt usually personally recommend PPI to its customers and
Ive not seen anything in Mr and Mrs Cs complaint that makes me think anything different 
happened here. As Nationwide didnt make a personal recommendation to Mr and Mrs C, it
didnt need to check that it was right for them. But it still needed to give them clear enough
information so they could decide for themselves whether they wanted it.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs C as much information as it should have 
done. But I dont think better information wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. I say this 
because Mr C was eligible for the policy and he doesnt appear to have been affected by any 
of the main things that the policy doesnt cover, such as an unusual employment status or 
suffering from any medical conditions which he was already aware of.
Nationwide has told us there was a waiting period of 90 days for the policy to pay out if 
Mr C needed to make a claim on it. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld 
on this point  as Mr and Mrs C would have had to wait a long time to receive any benefit for 
the policy. 
Ive considered the term in the policy carefully. And Ive looked at a sample of the 
information around this waiting period that is likely to have been available to Mr and Mrs C 
at the time. Whilst it says there will be a 90 day waiting period, it also says that the first 
payment covers the time from day 61 up until the day 90. So, in fact it is only the first 60 
days which are not covered by the policy. Mr C says he would have received four weeks 
sick pay benefits from his employer if he was too ill to work. And Mr and Mrs C say they 
didnt have any savings or other means they could rely on. So, Ive thought about what 
impact, if any, this delay wouldve made to Mr and Mrs Cs decision to take the policy.
Whilst there was a period of three months where no payment would be made, once this had 
ended, Mr C could have potentially been covered for up to two years. 
Mr and Mrs C had taken on a long-term financial commitment  secured against their home. 
So, I think they would have wanted the security that their mortgage repayments would have 
been covered if Mr C was unable to work.  And, I think they could have appreciated the 
financial support this policy could give them long term, even if they did have to wait a few 
months. 
So  on balance - I dont think the 90 day waiting period would have made a difference to 
their choice to take out the PPI.
I dont know what information was given to Mr and Mrs C about the cost of the policy. It may 
be that Nationwide couldve explained the cost better than it did. But I havent seen anything 
to make me think that the policy was unaffordable for them  or any compelling evidence 
that - they had a particular need to keep costs down. And for all the same reasons why I 
think this policy was useful for them, I still think they wouldve bought the policy even if the 
cost had been clearer. 
Overall, I dont think Mr and Mrs C have lost out as a result of anything Nationwide mightve 
done wrong. 
Nationwide responded to confirm it had received the provisional decision and it had nothing 
further to add. Mr and Mrs C havent responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no one had anything else for me to think about, my decision remains unchanged. So, its 
been difficult to decide on this complaint, as I know so little about how Mr and Mrs C came to 
have the PPI. Ive taken into account all of their comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion. And based on the information Ive got, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably 
say the PPI was mis-sold to them. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman