DRN-4315397
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) are 
unfairly asking her to pay a fee for not sending to them a final response letter from her lender 
about a payment protection insurance (PPI) complaint.
Mrs L is represented by Mr S in bringing her complaint  for ease of reading I will only refer 
to Mrs L in my decision.
What happened
In April 2023 Mrs L said she was contacted by solicitors acting for FTR saying they would 
take legal action against her if she didnt pay a £500 fee. Mrs L said she was told the fee 
was for an unresolved PPI complaint made around 2019. But said shed never had a store 
card with the lender and couldnt remember engaging the services of FTR. Mrs L complained 
to FTR.
FTR said Mrs L had agreed to use their services just prior to the August 2019 deadline for 
making such claims. They said Mrs L had asked them to check several store cards she had 
to see if there was any PPI. They said the lender for Mrs Ls store card ending *4489 told 
them there was a PPI policy. FTR said they asked Mrs L to complete a PPI questionnaire in 
support of her claim. And this along with a letter of authority (LoA) was submitted with a 
formal letter of complaint to the lender in November 2020. But Mrs L hadnt engaged with 
them so in line with their terms and conditions they asked her to pay their fee of £500. When 
Mrs L didnt pay the fee they placed recovery into the hands of their solicitors. As a 
resolution to the complaint FTR said they would cancel the £500 fee but said theyd updated 
Mrs L about her claim and hadnt done anything wrong by asking her to provide the final 
response shed had from her lender about her claim.
Mrs L wasnt happy with FTRs response she said shed experienced distress and 
inconvenience in being told she would be taken to court for a fee she said wasnt justified. 
She said shed felt intimidated by FTRs actions. And that it wasnt fair to be asked to pay a 
fee for something she didnt have. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said FTR had acted unfairly as the lender had told them that theyd closed 
Mrs Ls mis-sold PPI complaint in June 2021 as Mrs L had been subject to a bankruptcy 
order. And that theyd told FTR theyd only deal with the Official Receiver direct. He also said 
FTR failed to comply with the Claims Management Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(CMCOB). He accepted FTR had cancelled the £500 fee but said they should pay Mrs L 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused her by paying £275 for their 
poor customer service.
FTR didnt agree they said Mrs L in completing the on-line application hadnt told them shed 
been made bankrupt. And if she had shed have received an on screen message telling her 
FTR couldnt accept her application. They also said that the pandemic had affected all 
businesses involved in PPI complaints. They asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to recognise the upset this has caused. I understand that being chased for a 
payment and the potential of legal action being taken would have been upsetting. And it 
would have added to any financial pressures Mrs L was under at the time. In reaching my 
decision I need to determine whether FTR acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with 
Mrs L. So, to ask FTR to do anything differently Id need to be satisfied they did something 
they werent allowed to do or didnt do something they should have. Having done so Im 
upholding Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for mis-sold 
PPI claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline there was an expected 
increase in the volume of mis-sold PPI claims being received. So, for some lenders the 
submission of a letter of authority (LoA) was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no 
further information was needed for the lender to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim . But for 
others a letter of complaint was required with supporting information such as a PPI 
questionnaire. Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt be accepted 
by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
FTRs records show that they received an on-line application from Mrs L on 28 August 2019, 
just prior to the deadline date. FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to continue 
to provide you with the claims service
I can see from FTRs records in October 2019 the lender confirmed Mrs L had PPI, this 
shows that the LoA dated 28 August 2019 was submitted by FTR on behalf of Mrs L before 
the deadline was reached. FTRs records show an email was sent to Mrs L on 12 November 
2019 that was headed Great News that said PPI had been found by one of her lenders. 
FTR asked Mrs L to complete a two-step process, one to sign another LoA  as the lender 
had asked for a wet signature, not just a digital signature. And the other to complete a PPI 
questionnaire in support of her claim that shed been mis-sold PPI. 
In their final response letter to Mrs L FTR said theyd submitted the LoA, PPI questionnaire 
and a letter of complaint to the lender 23 November 2020, but this wasnt correct as I can 
see from their records this was submitted 23 November 2019. And that the LoA had a wet 
signature as opposed to the digital signature added to the on-line application. The lender 
acknowledged receipt of the mis-sold PPI complaint to FTR in December 2019. So, Im 
satisfied Mrs L had authorised FTR to act on her behalf, and that FTR submitted Mrs Ls 
mis-sold PPI complaint to her lender before the deadline date.
In October 2020 I can see from FTRs notes that Mrs L told them that a business shed had 
with her late husband was made bankrupt. FTR said Mrs L didnt provide them with any 
evidence of this and on being told she may still be eligible for their fee had disconnected the 
call. But I cant see that FTR took any further action themselves but have said that they 
wouldnt have accepted Mrs Ls application if theyd been made aware of any bankruptcy 
when she applied to use their services. CMCOB - Enquiries regarding outstanding liabilities - 
CMCOB 6.1.2 R says:
(1) After a firm has entered into an agreement with a customer relating to regulated claims 
management activity, the firm must promptly ask the person against whom the claim is to be made whether the customer has any outstanding liabilities with that person, which the 
damages, compensation or settlement monies might be off-set against.
(2) If the person against whom the claim is to be made confirms that the customer has such 
liabilities with it, the firm must:
(a) in a durable medium, promptly inform the customer of this;
(b) inform the customer that they will, where necessary, need to pay the firms fees from their 
own funds.
I havent seen any evidence that FTR after being made aware that Mrs L may have 
outstanding liabilities took any action to seek further details from Mrs L or her lender.
From FTRs records I cant see they took any action until they received a no action 
response from the lender in September 2021 which prompted them to ask Mrs L for the final 
response shed received from her lender.
I can see FTRs terms and conditions say:
"If the Company offers or pays Compensation to You directly, You agree to notify FTR 
immediately (and within 7 days at the latest) and to provide the details FTR needs to 
calculate Your Fee(s). For the avoidance of doubt, should You reject a reasonable offer of 
Compensation and/or refuse to sign a Companys Acceptance. FTR reserve the right to 
charge a fee of £500 per PPI complaint sent to the 'Company' if a request for disclosure of 
the offer is not received within 7 days of notification.
And its this term that FTR relied on to ask Mrs L to pay their fee of £500. But Mrs L never 
received an offer or payment of compensation from her lender directly. But I can see that in 
June 2021, the lender responded to a request from FTR about Mrs Ls claim telling them  
that the complaint had been closed. And that they would only deal with the Official Receiver 
direct. The notification was for Mrs L but addressed to FTR at the address we hold for them. 
CMCOB 6.1.4 says:
The firm must pass on to the customer:
(a) any information received from a third party which is addressed to, or meant for, the 
attention of that customer
I know FTR said they didnt receive the information from the lender, but it was addressed 
correctly to them. I can also see the lender in January 2020 sent a delay letter for Mrs L to 
FTR but again I cant see that FTR passed this information on to Mrs L. As I cant see Mrs L 
had any contact from the lender direct or that FTR passed on any information from the 
lender to her. And her mis-sold PPI complaint was closed. I dont think FTR acted fairly in 
relying on the term they did. I also think as outlined above following the call in October 2020 
that FTR was aware of Mrs Ls bankruptcy and that they should have taken action to 
determine any outstanding liabilities Mrs L may have had.
CMCOB also provides guidance about keeping customers informed. CMCOB 6.1.9
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least 
once every six months, in a durable medium.
I understand FTR like other businesses was impacted by the pandemic. But I cant see there 
was any contact from FTR to Mrs L after December 2019, until Mrs L called them in October 
2020. And it was nearly a year after that when FTR asked Mrs L to send to them a final 
response from her lender.
CMCOB 6.1.6 says:.. a firm should consider whether it is necessary to inform the customer that:
(a) updates from the firm are likely to be less frequent while the progress of the claim is not 
within the firms control; and
(b) the customer may contact the firm at any time to discuss their claim and its progress.
I havent seen any evidence that FTR informed Mrs L about the impact of the pandemic on 
their ability to provide meaningful updates and progress about her mis-sold PPI claim.
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think Mrs L would have experienced the distress 
she has suffered if FTR had adhered to CMCOB. And I can understand how distressing it 
would have been to receive a claim form saying she was in breach of her contract and legal 
action for the recovery of £500 was being taken against her in the county court.
Putting things right
Im pleased to see that FTR accepted that asking Mrs L to pay the £500 fee wasnt fair and 
that theyll no longer seek recovery of this. But I dont think this was enough to put things 
right as Mrs L has experienced the distress of legal action being taken for a fee that I dont 
think was justified.
I agree with our investigator that FTR should pay Mrs L £275 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by their poor customer service in failing to adhere to the relevant 
guidance.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim to 
pay Mrs L £275 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman