DRN-3547483
The complaint
Miss L complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial 
Services irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss L acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with Alphera in May 2015, 
which she settled when she took out a new hire purchase agreement in 2016. Due to their 
being negative equity arising from the settlement of the 2015 agreement Miss L took out a 
fixed sum loan agreement for £758 repayable over 36 months at a rate of £25 a month. 
This decision relates to the new credit provided to Miss L in the March 2016 hire purchase 
agreement noting also the fixed loan agreement taken out at time. Under the March 2016 
hire purchase agreement Miss L made a first monthly payment £308 and then was required 
to make 46 monthly repayments of £159 with a final optional payment of £3,822 if she 
wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The total repayable under the agreement 
was £11,432. 
Miss L says that Alphera didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Alphera didnt agree. It said that Miss Ls 
application was auto-approved. It said a credit check took place and the decision took into 
consideration Miss Ls declared employment status, residential status and age as well as the 
required monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think there was 
enough evidence provided to say that Alphera acted unfairly or unreasonably by approving 
the finance agreement.
Miss L didnt agree and said that while Alphera ran a credit check it didnt ask about her 
income and expenditure. She said she moved to her property in April 2015 and took out 
finance in May 2015. Then in March when she went to upgrade her vehicle, she says 
Alphera didnt carry out reasonable checks and had it done so it wouldnt have lent to her 
again. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision release to the agreement taken out in March 2016. Alphera will be familiar with 
all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint 
concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all 
of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on 
our website. 
Alphera has explained that Miss Ls agreement was auto accepted, and that consideration 
was given to her employment and other factors. It said a credit check took place, but I 
havent been provided with a copy. Ive therefore relied on a copy of the credit file supplied 
by Miss L. While this is a more recent report it gives an indication of what Alphera would 
likely have seen. This doesnt show an county court judgements or defaults at the time of the 
agreement and without further evidence to suggest that Miss Ls credit file from the time 
would have showed adverse data that would have warranted further investigation I do not 
find that I can say the credit report raises concerns.
Alphera hasnt provide evidence that it gathered income and expenditure information from 
Miss L. Given the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of the 
agreement, I think it would have been proportionate for Alphera to have done so to ensure it 
was affordable. Although it did complete a credit check, this wont have indicated what 
Miss Ls regular living expenses were. Without knowing what Miss Ls income and regular 
committed expenditure were Alphera wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of 
whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate 
checks.
Ive considered what Alphera would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Miss L to provide us with evidence of her 
financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. However, while a credit report 
has been provided, she has explained she cant get access to her bank statements. Based 
on what we have received I do not find that Miss L has given us enough information to fairly 
determine what proportionate checks would likely have shown Alphera. 
As Miss L hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable at the time 
it was provided, I cant reasonably conclude that Alphera ought to have known she would 
struggle to make the repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Alphera acted unfairly in 
approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont find that I have enough evidence to uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman