DRN-1250795
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Ms S says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Ms S applied for a credit card with Lloyds in 1995. At some time between then and 2000, 
PPI was added to her account that was designed to help protect her repayments if she 
couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Ms S didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms S case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Unsurprisingly, given how long ago the PPI was sold, there are gaps in the 
information available from the time. Ms S says she cant recall how the PPI was sold 
and Lloyds cant confirm that either. From experience of how Lloyds sold PPI 
between 1995 and 2000 across all its sales channels, Ive no reason to think it was 
added without her knowledge or agreement.  
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms S, it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, I cant see that shed have been affected by any of the exclusions 
to, or limits on, the PPI cover. And the PPI benefits would have paid out on top of her 
enhanced sick pay and savings, for up to 12 months per claim. The PPI could have 
allowed her to retain her savings or use them to cover other costs if she wasnt 
working. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I think it likely she chose to take it out  so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. And it looks as though it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong despite her other means. It also looks like shed have found it 
affordable. 
 
So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S. 
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because: Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Ms S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair 
in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
If it hasnt already done so, Lloyds should pay back to Ms S any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Ms S any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Lloyds should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Ms S the difference between 
what she owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Ms S 8%* simple 
interest if Ms S paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms S can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman