DRN-3420881
The complaint
Mr G complains that ReAssure Limited didnt let him increase his pension contributions after 
his policy had been taken over by them from HSBC.
What happened
Mr G had a pension policy with HSBC. He says he was able to decrease and increase his 
contributions whenever he wanted to and did so regularly depending on how much 
disposable income he had available.
Mr G says around 2015 HSBC informed him that his pension policy would be sold to 
ReAssure. He says he decreased his contributions at that point, thinking he could increase 
them again if he wanted to once ReAssure had taken over.
Mr G says when he contacted ReAssure to increase his premiums he was told this wasnt 
possible. He says he contributed to his stakeholder pension and an ex-employers pension 
instead.
In 2021, he complained. He says he wasnt told that he couldnt increase his contributions  
anymore after ReAssures takeover. He feels hes been disadvantaged as a result.
ReAssure explained that they made a decision to not allow new payments being made into 
existing policies due to the retail distribution review (RDR). RDR came into effect in 
December 2012 to stop commission-based charging on any new business.
ReAssure offered a top up policy instead which they explained was more cost effective for 
customers. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Gs complaint but didnt uphold it. She didnt think he 
had been disadvantaged as he had made contributions into other pensions instead. 
Mr G disagreed. He felt ReAssure couldnt just change his policy in that way. As no 
agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I also wont be upholding Mr Gs complaint which I appreciate will come as 
a disappointment. Ill explain my reasons below.
I can understand that Mr G liked the way he could increase his contributions when he had 
money left over to put towards his pension when his policy was still with HSBC. And he feels 
it isnt right that ReAssure can just make the decision to change this.
Before RDR it was common for advisers who sold a pension policy to be paid from initial and 
ongoing commission (trail commission). This would be deducted from the investment. RDR 
changed this so that charges and fees would become more transparent. Advice after RDR 
could not be charged through commission.
Trail commission would be charged on the value of the whole policy. So if increased 
contributions or single premium contributions are made to a product which deducts such 
commission, these new contributions can be subject to the same commission.
To avoid this ReAssure made the decision to not accept increased contributions to existing 
policies. Instead they are offering top up policies which are more cost effective for their 
customers.
I think ReAssures decision is designed to work to the advantage of consumers and to apply 
the new expected practices introduced by RDR.
I cant see that Mr G was disadvantaged by ReAssures actions. Ive seen a letter from 
ReAssure which shows Mr G was given the option of a top up policy to make increased 
contributions in January 2016. Call notes in April 2016 show he was undecided whether he 
wanted to proceed with a top up policy, but a call note in November 2016 recorded that he 
would like a top up policy and pay £200 a month net.
Mr G also said he made contributions into other pension policies instead when he couldnt 
increase his contributions in the existing plan.
So Im satisfied Mr G was given alternative options to make further contributions and he did 
not lose out financially or was disadvantaged.
I dont think ReAssure treated Mr G unfairly and so I wont uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman