DRN-3471461
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has declined their 
request for a term extension on their mortgage. 
Originally, to settle the complaint Mr and Mrs M wanted Halifax to agree to their proposal for 
a term extension, offer them a lower interest rate and refund the interest theyve paid since 
the mortgage term ended of £20,500. However, the mortgage has now been repaid.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 7 April 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened really isnt in 
dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine why a complaint has 
been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Mr and Mrs M being identified.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs M took out an interest-only mortgage with Halifax in 2008, borrowing 
approximately £480,000 over a ten-year term on an interest-only basis. The property was 
one of their buy-to-let (BTL) properties which they were re-mortgaging onto a residential 
mortgage, and it was explained to Halifax by their broker that they would be renting out the 
property they were then living in.  
The first three years of the mortgage were on a fixed rate of interest but reverted to Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR) in 2011. The mortgage term came to an end in July 2018. The original 
repayment strategy was a sale of the property.
However, Mr and Mrs M decided not to sell the property, and instead wanted to sell some of 
their BTLs in order to repay the mortgage to Halifax. In 2018 a term extension of 12 months 
was agreed to allow Mr and Mrs M either to sell the secured property or their BTLs in order 
to repay the mortgage.
However, the mortgage wasnt repaid. Halifax granted two further extensions which ran until 
May 2020 to allow Mr and Mrs M to sell some of their BTLs. But by July 2020 this still hadnt 
happened, and so Mr M put various proposals to Halifax:
converting the mortgage to a repayment basis and extending the term;
extending the term on an interest-only basis;
reducing the balance by £100,000.
Halifax didnt accept any of these proposals and the mortgage was repaid in April 2021. 
Land Registry data shows that Mr and Mrs M sold their property for £35,000, which is either 
an error in the Land Registry data or else the property was sold for substantially less than its 
actual open market value. 
A complaint was made to Halifax about the way it had dealt with the matter. Mr and Mrs M 
thought Halifax had been obstructive, failed to give proper consideration to their proposals 
(which Mr and Mrs M thought were very reasonable), charged them a high interest rate once 
the mortgage term had expired and forced them to sell their BTLs.
Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong and so Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened. 
However, he wasnt persuaded Halifax had acted unreasonably or treated Mr and Mrs M 
unfairly.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Failure to consider proposals: Mr and Mrs M say that Halifax refused to consider their 
proposals and so didnt treat them fairly. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) previously carried out a Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR). This led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter 
lending assessments  including around affordability and repayment strategies for interest 
only mortgages  aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this which allow some of these 
new rules, particularly around affordability assessments, to be set aside in certain 
circumstances, if the change being requested to a mortgage was in the customers best 
interests. Its important to note, though, that these rules dont oblige lenders to make 
changes to mortgages. They merely say that changes dont have to be refused  if the 
criteria are met  on grounds of affordability or interest only repayment strategy. 
But Mr and Mrs M didnt meet criteria. They had proposed to pay £100,000 off the mortgage. 
Halifax looked at the available options if this had happened. For a repayment mortgage to be 
affordable, it would have to run until Mr M was over 90 years of age, which was outside 
Halifaxs lending criteria. Halifax also wasnt able to agree to an extension on an interest-
only basis, as it didnt meet its lending criteria in terms of repayment vehicle and in relation 
to the maximum age allowed (70) for an interest-only mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage fell into the category of an agreement under which certain new 
rules relating to affordability could be set aside. This is because it was taken out before April 
2014, was secured by a first charge on their property and they werent looking to borrow any 
additional money. So, if the transaction was in their best interests, Halifax could decide to 
allow the term extension without applying the rules. And Ive thought about whether it 
shouldve done so here.
However, after careful consideration, I dont think that it would have been in Mr and Mrs Ms 
best interests to agree to extend the mortgage without an affordability assessment on an 
interest-only basis until Mr M reached the maximum age of 70. Mr and Mrs M had the funds 
available to repay the mortgage (albeit they had to realise those funds by selling some of 
their BTLs). So they were not without the resources to repay the mortgage at the due date and had known for several years that they needed to put their plans in place. And whilst the 
value of their BTL portfolio might increase, there is also a risk of another property crash, and 
so no guarantee that there would be sufficient funds to pay off the mortgage if the term was 
extended.
So in all the circumstances, I dont think it would have been in Mr and Mrs Ms best interests 
for Halifax to agree to the term extension, particularly as Mr and Mrs M had the funds 
available to pay off the mortgage at the end of the contract term.
Alternative product: Mr and Mrs M say that the crux of their complaint is that, ultimately, all 
they wanted to do was re-mortgage. Theyre unhappy that they werent offered a new 
product at a lower interest rate.
The original mortgage product was a three-year fixed rate which ended in 2011. Since that 
time the mortgage was on SVR, with no early repayment charge (ERC). Mr M has said that 
he requested a new product many times. There is nothing in Halifaxs notes to show this 
happened until August 2020. But in any event, it wasnt necessary for Mr and Mrs M to 
speak to Halifax about applying for a new interest rate product after their original one expired 
in 2011. They could have applied online for a product switch through Halifaxs website.
It was always open to Mr and Mrs M  who, I find, are experienced in mortgage matters  to 
have taken out a new interest rate product at any point after that. However, they wouldnt 
have been able to take out a new product that ran beyond the expiry date of the mortgage in 
2018. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that, once the mortgage term expired in 2018, they 
were paying SVR (as they had been since 2011) until the mortgage was repaid in 2021. But 
Im satisfied Halifax wasnt under any obligation to reduce their interest rate. Nor am I 
persuaded, at the point when Mr and Mrs M were expected to repay the mortgage in full, that 
Halifax should have offered Mr and Mrs M a new interest rate product. This would have 
come with an ERC, which would not have been in Mr and Mrs Ms best interests, given that 
they were required to repay the mortgage immediately. 
Pressure to repay: I can see that Halifax was in contact with Mr and Mrs M from 2014 
onwards reminding them of the impending end of the mortgage term and the need for them 
to have a repayment vehicle in place. Mr and Mrs M have explained that their intended 
repayment strategy wasnt a sale of the mortgaged property, but sale of some of the 
properties in their BTL portfolio. However, no steps were taken to sell the properties until 
after the mortgage term had expired. 
I think Halifax acted fairly in granting extensions to enable Mr and Mrs M to raise the capital 
to pay off the mortgage. I appreciate that Brexit and the pandemic  events outside the 
control of both Mr and Mrs M and Halifax  affected their plans for a quick sale of the BTLs. 
But Mr and Mrs M had known for several years of the need to have their repayment strategy 
in place, and so I think they could have taken action earlier to raise the funds to pay off the 
mortgage.
Ultimately Mr and Mrs M were given more than three years to pay off the mortgage, which I 
think is reasonable in all the circumstances. Im not persuaded Halifax applied undue 
pressure. I think the bank granted reasonable forbearance and gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient 
time either to sell the property, sell some of their BTLs or take independent financial advice 
about other options to borrow the funds to repay Halifax.I appreciate Mr and Mrs M were concerned about the threat of repossession. Lenders are 
under a regulatory obligation to ensure that borrowers are aware of the consequences of a 
breach of the mortgage contract  and a failure to pay the outstanding balance at the end of 
the term is a breach of contract. Halifax did not in fact, start possession action, which is 
considered a last resort. Instead the bank granted Mr and Mrs M extensions of time to pay 
off the outstanding balance. I note Mr and Mrs M believe that, if the point had been reached 
where Halifax started legal action, a court would not have made a possession order, given 
that proposals had been put to Halifax. However, the court has no power to suspend 
possession where the mortgage term has reached its end. I am glad to note that this 
situation didnt arise, and that Mr and Mrs M were able to repay the mortgage, albeit that 
they would have preferred to have extended the mortgage term. For the reasons given 
above, that wasnt possible.
My final decision
I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman