DRN-2765025
The complaint
Mr M complains that he wasnt told by Barclays Bank Plc that a direct debit payment due had 
already been factored into a settlement figure requested for his loan. As a result, his 
settlement was higher than it was expected to be, which his new loan didnt quite cover. 
Mr M would like to be compensated for what happened and doesnt think the £75 offered 
goes far enough. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr Ms loan repayments were due on 28th of each month.  However, when Mr M 
called on 28 December 2020 for a settlement figure, the direct debit hadnt yet gone 
through as that was a bank holiday. The payment was therefore due to come out on 
29 December. 
Barclays didnt explain when giving the settlement figure that the payment due had 
already been factored in; that left Mr M believing the ultimate settlement required 
would be lower, as a payment of around £550 was yet to taken (or that the 
repayment wouldnt be taken at all that month).
Barclays accepts it gave wrong information, so whats left for me to decide is whether 
that has caused a financial loss, or distress and/or inconvenience to Mr M, and if 
Barclays has done enough to put that right.  
Where something has gone wrong, we expect the complainant to be put in the 
position they would have been in had things gone right  not the wrong position they 
were told. In this case, that means Mr M ought to be put in the position he would be 
in had he be given the correct settlement figure. And it seems to me that is the 
position he is in now  he paid the correct amount to settle the loan. I have taken into 
account that he says he would have settled the loan later in the month, but I dont 
think that wouldnt have made his financial position any different. I note Mr M asked 
for the settlement due to be lowered as a result of the error  but that would place 
him in a more advantageous position than he would have been had he been told the 
correct information, and I dont think that would be fair. 
Mr M has told us the error didnt cause him any financial difficulties, but he did need 
to adapt his finances that month. I accept this caused him some inconvenience, and 
his expected expenditure would have been different which he needed to account for. 
And its right that he is fairly compensated for that. I note Mr M was aware of the 
incorrect information within a matter of days, at which point he could have withdrawn 
from his new loan and left settling his Barclays loan until later in the month had that 
been more convenient for him. Taking all of that into account, Im satisfied the £75 is 
a fair reflection of the impact the error had, and the inconvenience it caused. Im 
therefore not going to ask it to pay any more compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is Barclays Bank Plc has already fairly resolved this 
complaint. I require it to pay Mr M £75 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman