DRN-2566518
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Financial Services Limited reduced the limit on her credit 
card. She said this caused embarrassment to her as some transactions were declined. She 
wants the old limit to be restored or at least the new limit to be increased.
What happened
Mrs C tells us that in November 2019 Creation reduced the limit on her credit card from 
£2,000 to £500 without giving her notice. She said this resulted in transactions being 
declined which caused her embarrassment. She feels she may be the subject of gender 
discrimination as her husbands credit limit wasnt reduced.
Creation issued a final response letter (FRL) in which it explained that it bases the credit 
limits it sets on information received from credit reference agencies and its own internal 
lending criteria. It said it had notified Mrs C of the reduction and that she had called it on 25 
November seeking for the revised limit be increased. It said that the declined items had been 
on 27 November and 5 December by which time Mrs C knew of the reduced limit.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 December 2020. I said that I wasnt 
minded to uphold the complaint. I said that it was a matter for Creation to determine the level 
of credit it offered to each customer. And that it had followed the terms and conditions of the 
agreement.
Since then both parties have replied. Creation said it didnt have anything to add. Mrs C 
expressed her disappointment that Id taken the side of the business. Which she didnt 
think was fair. 
I thank both parties for their replies. In the absence of any new material information I see no 
reason to change my provisional view which is largely repeated in my final decision set out 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs C would be upset and disappointed that Creation reduced her 
credit limit by a substantial amount.
I should first explain that it is not the role of this service to direct a business as to what its 
lending criteria should be. Nor do we have any say as to whom a business offers a credit 
facility or the amount of that facility. In just the same way that a customer may choose which 
business they wish to deal with, so a business is entitled to determine if it is prepared to lend 
to an individual and if so, how much.
How a business reaches its decision is a matter of commercial confidentiality. And Creation 
is unwilling to disclose all the criteria it takes into account. It is entitled to do so. In its FRL it 
did offer some of the potential reasons for the decrease in Mrs Cs credit limit.
Dealing with the specific issue of gender discrimination Ive seen no information which leads 
me to believe that this was an issue in the decision which led to Mrs Cs reduced credit limit. 
I cant reasonably compare Mr and Mrs Cs credit limits as Im not aware of all the criteria 
which is applied. Only those factors which Creation mentioned in the FRL. Mrs C referred to 
a loan that Creation had offered her husband. But I noticed that the letter supplied, referred 
only to an opportunity to apply for the loan. It didnt guarantee the loan would be made.
Most businesses now rely heavily on automated credit assessments which are based on the 
relevant lending criteria. So if an account is flagged, it will have been done so on the basis of 
the criteria. Ive not seen anything to show that the gender of the individual account 
customer is a consideration. Any business is likely to be principally concerned not on gender 
but with whether or not the individual can afford to repay the loan.
Nor do I think Creation was required to reduce the credit limit incrementally. The terms of the 
loan agreement gave Creation the right to amend the credit limit without specific notice. If a 
business determines that a credit limit is to be reduced, then it is illogical to allow it to remain 
above the new limit for longer than necessary. If a customer knew well in advance that a 
credit limit was due to be reduced it might tempt additional spending before the reduction 
was applied. And could potentially lead to financial difficulties for the customer.
Ive noted that Mrs C in her response mentioned that she pays off the credit each month in 
full. But still experiences difficulties in the early part of the month due to the time taken for 
her repayments to be credited to her account. 
Its not normally my role to offer advice directly. But it seems its not so much the payments 
themselves as the timing of them which is causing Mrs C to experience some of the 
inconvenience which she has described.
Changing the date when a payment is required so that it fits in more conveniently with 
consumer income and the account administration can often achieve the desired result. 
Although I cant offer any guarantee, it may be that if Mrs C asks Creation if its willing to 
adjust the dates of required repayments that it may be able to assist.
In summary, whilst I empathise with Mrs Cs situation, I dont find that Creation has done 
anything wrong in reducing her credit limit. And I shant ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman