DRN-2257617
The complaint
Mr K complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) mis-sold him a mortgage endowment 
policy and havent fairly compensated him.
What happened
ReAssure sold Mr K a mortgage endowment policy alongside an interest-only mortgage in 
1991. He later complained it had been mis-sold. 
ReAssure agreed that the policy had been mis-sold as it was not suitable for Mr Ks 
circumstances at the time. As a result, they offered £4,273.12, which they say puts Mr K in 
the position he would have been in, had the endowment policy not been sold and a 
repayment mortgage taken out instead. They also said that this takes into account the fact 
that he stopped paying premiums in 1995. 
Mr K did not think this was fair as he wants ReAssure to pay the original sum assured of 
£40,000. Our investigator considered that ReAssures offer was fair and in line with 
regulatory guidelines on how to compensate customers that have been mis-sold an 
endowment policy alongside an interest only mortgage. Mr K disagreed, so the matter has 
been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and consider 
ReAssures offer to be fair.
Mr K says the policy was mis-sold  and ReAssure accept this  so all Im deciding here is 
whether Mr K has been fairly compensated for the mis-sale.
The UK financial regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  set guidance on how to 
calculate compensation for mortgage endowment complaints. This is based on a comparison 
between the customers actual financial position and the one theyd likely be in if theyd 
taken out a capital repayment mortgage (and no endowment).
I appreciate that Mr K does not think that ReAssures offer reflects his loss. But having 
looked over the calculation, I can assure him that it has been done in line with the regulators
guidance. This method compares what situation Mr K would likely be in if he had taken out
a repayment mortgage instead. I understand that this was not offered to Mr K at the time,
but if an interest only mortgage with an endowment policy was deemed to be unsuitable at
the time, then its likely that a repayment mortgage would have been the suitable alternative
that should have been offered.
So, to work out the difference between the two, ReAssure have compared how much capital
Mr K would have paid off under a repayment mortgage; how much this would have cost him
compared to what he paid for the endowment premium, plus his mortgage interest
payments; and the surrender value he would have received.
Its necessary that such a calculation will involve assumptions  as its comparing what they
actually did against a different, hypothetical course of action. Im satisfied that ReAssure
hasnt relied on any unreasonable assumptions or incorrect information. The records show 
Mr K paid more for his endowment policy and interest-only mortgage than he would have 
done if he had taken out a repayment mortgage. ReAssures offer includes a refund of the 
difference. This suggests that they havent made an assumption regarding this which is 
detrimental to Mr K.
Mr K says that ReAssure should pay him the £40,000 sum originally assured. But this was 
based on him paying premiums for 25 years, and I can see that he stopped paying his 
premiums in 1995 only a few years after taking the policy. So he is only entitled to receive 
the surrender value of the policy from 1995, and not as though he had paid premiums for the 
entire 25-year duration of the policy. And I can see that ReAssure have taken account of the 
surrender value of the policy in 1995 when calculating the redress due to Mr K.
I am sorry to hear that Mr K has been suffering with his health and is also struggling 
financially, and I understand this must have been a difficult time for him. But in the 
circumstances, Im not able to say that ReAssures offer is unfair. 
ReAssures offer
ReAssure have followed the approach set by the regulator for calculating compensation for 
complaints like this in a guidance note called Handling Mortgage Endowment Complaints, 
often referred to as RU89 calculations. As per that guidance, Mr K is to be put back in the 
position he would have been in, so far as is reasonably possible, had he not been
recommended an unsuitable policy. This means refunding the loss he suffered when 
comparing his financial situation now with the one he would have been in if he had been
sold a repayment mortgage (capital and interest) in 1991 over a 25-year term.
ReAssure have agreed to pay Mr K the loss identified by carrying out a loss calculation in
accordance with the RU89 guidance.
My final decision
ReAssure Limited have already offered to compensate Mr K. My final decision is that they 
should pay this compensation, as set out above in the section ReAssures offer. 
If Mr K accepts my decision, it becomes legally binding on both parties. So he wouldnt
then be able to take legal action in relation to any issues covered in this case. On the other
hand, if he rejects the decision, whilst that wont affect his legal rights, it will mean that 
ReAssure wouldnt be obliged to comply with my decision  so it would then be purely a 
matter of goodwill as to whether they honour the offer theyve made. Legally, an offer isnt 
binding until unconditional acceptance of it has been communicated by the offeree. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman