DRN-2582587
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Fowlersfinance.com Limited (Fowlers).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Fowlers, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Fowlers, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The investigator has been trying to get information from Fowlers about this case for many 
months. He first asked for a copy of their final response and their complaint file in August 
2020 and Ive seen many attempts to gather information. In the absence of that information I 
dont think its fair to keep Mr G waiting any longer, so Ive considered the evidence I have 
available to me.
Mr G says he complained about the car cutting out and losing power within the first 30 days 
after taking receipt of it. In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows him to reject 
the car if there is a fault with it. I can see that an inspection of the car was arranged by 
Fowlers, but Ive not seen the results of that inspection. I have seen that they allowed Mr G 
to reject the car and that they took it back and promised to refund his deposit. On that 
evidence I think there was most likely to be a fault with the car that merited its rejection.
Putting things right
Mr G says that Fowlers are chasing him for payments on his account. I dont think theyre 
right to do so as they have the car and I think its clear theyve accepted rejection of it and 
should have ended the agreement.
Fowlers should therefore ensure that the agreement is ended, and they should not request 
any further payments from Mr G.
They need to refund his deposit and as Mr G has been deprived of that money they should 
add interest to that refund.
Mr G has been inconvenienced by these issues and has had to escalate his concerns to this 
service. There have been delays as a result of Fowlers inability to respond and whilst I 
accept that delays could have been contributed to by the pandemic I dont think that can 
fairly be said to be the reason for all the delays. In those circumstances Fowlers should pay 
Mr G £150 in compensation.
They should remove any adverse information they may have recorded to Mr Gs credit file in 
relation to this issue.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Fowlersfinance.com Limited 
to:
end the finance agreement with nothing more to pay;
refund Mr Gs deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr G £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Gs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman