DRN-3269982
The complaint
Mr S complains about a loan he had with Erudio Student Loans Limited.
What happened
Mr S took out a student loan in around 1995. Mr S says he has never met the income 
threshold to repay the loan and so each year he deferred the loan repayments. Mr S says 
that in October 2015, his situation changed, and since then hes been in receipt of housing 
and council benefits. 
Mr S says that he has had a lot of difficulty deferring his loan repayments with Erudio, and 
Erudio has continued to say that the loan repayments are due. Mr S says that theres no 
reason why Erudio shouldnt defer the repayments  he states he has provided Erudio with 
all documentary evidence to support his situation, however Erudio havent accepted these. 
And have since passed the loans onto a debt management company, where charges have 
been added to his account and he says he has been threatened with county court action.
Mr S says this situation has caused him a lot of frustration and stress. And to put things right, 
he would like Erudio to recall his loans from the third-party and recommence the deferment 
payment process, based on his ongoing financial and health situation.
Erudio responded to Mr Ss complaint to say that following it taking over the management of 
the loan in 2014, Mr S submitted successful deferment applications in 2014 and 2015. 
However, in 2016 it didnt receive a deferment application from him. Because it didnt receive 
an application, the repayments became due, and as Mr S didnt make the repayments, the 
account fell into arrears.
Erudio say that the next application it received from Mr S was in April 2017. However, it 
didnt receive the evidence it required to defer the loan repayments, and it didnt get any 
response to its requests for additional information. Because of this, the loan repayments 
remained due, and the account continued to accrue arrears. The account eventually 
defaulted in November 2018. Once the account defaulted and the full balance became due, 
Erudio say Mr S lost the right to further deferment. Mr Ss account was then placed with a 
third-party and court action considered.
Because Erudio didnt get the information it required to defer the loan, it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong in requesting repayments to the loan and subsequently defaulting the 
account. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S. He reviewed all of the information provided to 
him by both parties and provided a timeline of events. The investigator didnt think that 
Erudio had done anything wrong in requesting additional information from Mr S before it 
could defer the repayments. While the investigator agreed that what Mr S had provided 
Erudio with showed that he was below the income threshold to be accepted for a deferral, 
there were some discrepancies in his income information  and so he didnt think it was 
unreasonable of Erudio to ask for more information before agreeing deferral. Given that Mr S 
didnt provide the information required, or make any repayments to the account, the 
investigator thought it was fair of Erudio to terminate the agreement.
However, the investigator found that Mr S hadnt made any repayments to the loan account 
since the last deferment period ended in July 2016. But Erudio didnt default the account 
until November 2018. The investigator thought it took too long for Erudio to default the 
account, and it should have defaulted the account by February 2017 at the latest. The 
investigator said that Erudio should re-work the balance to remove all interest applied after 
February 2017. 
Mr S initially accepted the investigators view that Erudio had fairly terminated the account 
and rejected his deferral application. And he accepted the investigators view that he should 
get a refund of any interest that was applied after February 2017. 
Erudio later got in touch with Mr S direct after it had looked at the late default date. It agreed 
to backdate the default to 28 days after Mr Ss account fell into four months of arrears, which 
would be September 2016. It confirmed that the default wasnt being reported to the credit 
reference agencies. Erudio also arranged for £190.54 of interest that was applied to the 
account after September 2016 to be removed.
After this, Mr S got back in touch with our service to say that he no longer accepted the 
investigators view. He said that there was no reason why Erudio shouldnt have deferred his 
loan repayments because he has always earned under the threshold. Mr S is also unhappy 
that Erudio involved a debt company after the account was terminated.
Because Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it is my decision not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I appreciate this will come 
as a disappointment to him, but I will provide reasoning for my decision below.
I can see that Mr S successfully deferred his repayments in both 2014 and 2015, so Ive 
gone on to look at what happened after the last deferment period ended in July 2016.
From looking at the information provided by Erudio, I can see that once an application for 
deferred repayments was successful, the loan repayments would be deferred for 12 months, 
at which point a new application would need to be made for the following 12 months, or 
repayments would commence. In Mr Ss case, his deferral period ended in July 2016. And I 
can see that Erudio wrote to Mr S in advance of this to let him know that he would either 
need to submit a new application for deferment, or the monthly repayments would become 
due. 
But Mr S didnt submit a new application at this time, nor did he make repayments to the 
account. And so arrears began to build up. 
It wasnt until April 2017, nine months after his previous deferment period had ended, that he 
submitted a new application to Erudio for deferment. In the application, Mr S confirmed that 
his income was under the threshold for him to start repayments. But some of the information 
he gave Erudio about his income was inconsistent. For example, on the application form he 
stated that his income was £14,044.92, but the information he sent to support this showed his income was £17,385. Because of this, Erudio asked Mr S for more information before it 
could make a decision on his application. 
I can see that Erudio tried to contact Mr S on many occasions over the course of a few 
months to request the information  both by letter and by phone. But it didnt hear anything 
back from Mr S. Mr S told this service that he didnt respond because he thought hed 
already provided sufficient information. I think, based on the letters I have seen, it was clear 
that Erudio needed more from Mr S before it could continue with his application. And while 
Mr S might have been of the opinion that hed already provided enough, this wasnt for him 
to decide. I dont think it was unreasonable of Erudio to request more information from Mr S 
given the inconsistencies Ive mentioned above. 
Based on what Ive seen, I agree with Mr S that the information he had provided showed that 
his income was under the threshold  I dont think this is in dispute. But there is a process for 
completing the application, and because Mr Ss application wasnt complete, as he failed to 
respond with the requested information, the repayments under the agreement became due. 
Mr S didnt make a payment after the last deferral period ended in July 2016  so arrears 
built up on the account. I can see that Erudio has sent Mr S many letters requesting 
repayment, and letters to inform him that the account would be terminated if he didnt bring it 
back up to date. As Mr S didnt respond to these letters, or make a payment, the account 
was terminated. The terms and conditions of the account allow Erudio to do this where a 
customer falls behind with their repayments  so I dont think it has treated Mr S unfairly by 
terminating the account. 
As the account has now been terminated, Mr S has lost his right to defer any future 
repayments and the debt is now due to be repaid. Again, this is part of the terms and 
conditions of the account, and so it isnt unfair that Erudio has enforced this. The account is 
now with a third-party, which Erudio are able to do where an account has defaulted, so Mr S 
will need to contact the third party regarding future payments.
Separate to what our Investigator said, I can see that Erudio has now agreed to backdate 
the default date of the account to September 2016. As a result, it has removed any interest 
charged to the loan account after this date from the overall outstanding balance. This 
appears to be in line with guidelines set by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) on 
when an account should be defaulted.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman