DRN-3285954
The complaint
Ms A complained because NewDay Ltd refused to refund her for transactions which she said 
she didnt authorise. 
What happened
On 8 April 2020, Ms A rang NewDay. She said she hadnt used her card for five months, 
since shed transferred a balance from her NewDay card to another card provider. She said 
shed seen a debit on her March statement, which didnt say exactly what company it was or 
what it was for.
The adviser explained that the £15 payments were for a subscription company which dealt 
with cashbacks. And the payments had first been debited from Ms As account in March 
2018. The adviser explained to Ms A that sometimes a pop-up box appeared when making 
transactions online. She asked whether Ms A had clicked on anything like that. Ms A said it 
was possible.  But she was very angry and shouted, asking what had she bought. She said 
she hadnt had anything from the company so it was a fraud. The adviser asked again 
whether Ms A had set up a subscription and Ms A said that if she had done, she hadnt had 
any contact from the company.
The adviser said shed refer it to the fraud team, and cancelled Ms As card and reissued her 
with another one. She asked whether Ms A still had her card, which she did. Ms A also 
confirmed that no-one else could have used her card. 
Ms A rang again to follow up the call on 21 May. She complained. 
NewDays fraud team completed its investigation and tried to ring her on 3 and 4 June. As it 
couldnt get through, it wrote asking Ms A to get in touch.
On 25 June, Ms A sent a long complaint letter, and the fraud team tried again to ring her, but 
couldnt. NewDay sent its final response to her complaint no 27 July. In that, NewDay 
explained that the £15 monthly debits had started on 17 March 2018, and when Ms A made 
a purchase, shed have been offered discounts and vouchers, and if shed selected these, 
shed have been signed up to the subscription automatically. NewDay also said that it had 
added the company to a stop list when shed first notified it, on 8 April.
NewDay apologised because when shed phoned in May, shed wrongly been told that the 
outcome had already been communicated. It paid Ms A £60 compensation. .
Ms A wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. She sent us a long and detailed letter. Her 
complaint points included:
- Further payments had been made in April and May 2020 even though shed phoned 
on 8 April;
- Ms A said shed phoned NewDay a number of times in early June but there had been 
a bad connection and her complaint points hadnt been dealt with. She also hadnt 
received a call back;
- Ms A said that NewDays 27 July letter had offered her £60 for poor communication, 
but her substantive complaint was still outstanding. And when shed received a 
further letter on 11 August, she believed there hadnt been any genuine investigation 
into her complaint;
- In a section of our complaint form, Ms A mentioned that she was categorised as 
vulnerable for Covid, and shed had to deal with this during that lockdown.
Our investigator asked Ms A for more information about her vulnerability. She provided 
details, which the investigator referred to NewDay for consideration. NewDay replied that Ms 
A hadnt mentioned her health conditions in any of her letters. And although shed mentioned 
health in one of the phone calls, she hadnt said she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Nor was there any evidence that her vulnerability had affected her understanding of her 
statements. So NewDay said that knowing Ms As circumstances didnt change its decision 
about the disputed transactions.
Our investigator said she thought it was most likely that Ms A did click on the pop-up advert 
for the subscription. But she didnt think Ms A realised she was signing up for a monthly 
subscription. She didnt think it would be fair for Ms A to be liable for the ongoing payments 
apart from the first one. So she thought NewDay should refund all the payments from the 
second one onwards.
Ms A didnt accept the investigators view. She said she hadnt admitted to NewDay that she 
might have clicked on a link. She said shed asked NewDay to prove she had done so.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
 
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions which took place at the dates in Ms As complaint are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, these say that the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. 
Did Ms A authorise the debits?
In my provisional decision, I explained that Id listened carefully to the call recording from 8 
April 2020, when Ms A first disputed the debits going back to March 2018. As Ive set out 
above, in that call, NewDays adviser explained to Ms A that sometimes a pop-up box 
appeared when making transactions online. She asked whether Ms A had clicked on 
anything like that. Ms A said it was possible.  
Ms A subsequently denied this. I asked her for more information about what she could 
remember about what she signed up for, reminding her that in the phone call shed told 
NewDay that it was possible shed clicked something. I asked her what she might have 
clicked and whether she could remember whether there were any other steps. But Ms A 
replied that shed never admitted or said that shed clicked on anything. 
This isnt what the call recording shows though. As Ive mentioned already, Ms A admitted to 
NewDay when she first reported the transaction that its possible that she could have clicked something. I thought that was quite persuasive, and so I was satisfied that it was more likely 
than not that she did click the pop up and consent to an initial payment. 
The question then became whether Ms A consented to the payments that followed. The 
Office of Fair Trading issued guidance on payments like these in 2012  and the Financial 
Conduct Authority says that this guidance still applied. Broadly speaking, this says that a 
merchant (in this case the company behind the payments) should have made it clear to a 
customer that they would be agreeing to a continuous payment authority. 
Unfortunately, I wasnt able to see the wording of the pop up box Ms A saw and nor did I see 
what she may have seen after she clicked this. It wasnt Ms As fault that she cant provide 
this  but nor was it NewDays, and this service had also tried contacting the company 
without success. That means that I had to rely on the information I do have, to decide whats 
more likely than not to have happened here.
One thing that stands out here is that Ms A let these payments go on for two years. That 
might suggest that she was happy for them to be made. So, to be fair to Ms A, I asked her 
why shed taken so long to query the monthly £15 debits. Theyd started in March 2018, and 
she didnt contact NewDay about them until April 2020.
In reply to my questions about why shed taken so long to query the debits, Ms A replied 
that:
- Shed never signed up for the debits;
- The Covid pandemic had had a huge negative impact on her, because she had long-
terms health challenges and disability;
- Shed only noticed the debits after paying off the balance of her credit card, and she 
was still getting statements. She said she then immediately contacted NewDay.
I looked at Ms As statements. On 24 October 2019, Ms A paid off £3,410.67 towards her 
statement balance, leaving a £15 debit balance. She didnt contact NewDay until some six 
months later. So I couldnt see there was any link between when she did a balance transfer 
and when she reported the dispute about the £15 monthly payments.
I also noted that Ms A had been sent monthly statements, which showed the monthly £15 
debits from March 2018.
So I wasnt persuaded that the reason Ms A didnt query the debits was that she didnt know 
about them. Nor did I accept that she contacted NewDay as soon as shed paid a large sum 
off her balance  because the statements show otherwise. And in order to have paid a large 
sum off her balance in October 2019, shed have had to have been monitoring her 
statements to know how much she owed. I found it most likely here that Ms A knew about 
the monthly debits after the first debit in March 2018. And if she hadnt authorized them  
then I think its fair to say that she should have raised this with NewDay at this point.
Im sorry to hear that Ms A has health issues. But the £15 debits started in March 2018 and 
Covid didnt start to impact the UK significantly until spring 2020. So, in line with the above, I 
still thought that Ms A could have been aware of these debits before this time.
And the information which Ms A sent to us about her health condition didnt indicate that it 
made her incapable of managing her account  which she seemed to have done during the 
relevant times these payments were made. If that had unfortunately been the case, Id have 
expected it to have been reported to NewDay, but theres no evidence of that.The statements also showed that there werent any ongoing £15 debits in April and May 
2020, as Ms A had complained. I accepted that NewDay cancelled them as soon as Ms A 
contacted it about them. 
Taking into account the facts that:
- Ms A didnt query the £15 monthly debits, which started in March 2018, until April 
2020, and hadnt provided a sound reason for that; 
- on the first call recording to NewDay she said it was possible shed clicked on 
something; and 
- I dont accept that the Covid pandemic which started to impact the UK significantly in 
spring 2020, could have been why Ms A didnt query the debits in March 2018,
I considered it was most likely that Ms A did click on the pop-up advert for the subscription, 
and that she was aware of and understood what shed signed up for on an ongoing basis. So 
my provisional decision was that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms A didnt reply to my provisional decision.
NewDay said it had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Ive also taken into account responses to the provisional decision. Having done so, I 
consider my provisional decision was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman