DRN-3347439
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (Bank of Ireland) didnt help recover money 
he lost as part of a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything in 
detail again here. In summary, in September 2018, Mr M came across GFC Investment 
when he was looking to invest money. He registered his interest on a webform and was 
contacted by a representative who sold him an investment opportunity.
Mr M decided to open a trading account with GFC Investment and was assigned an account 
manager. He started with an initial deposit of £500 which he paid using a credit card. Mr M 
was encouraged to invest more funds and in the weeks that followed, he made several 
deposits to his trading account using his credit and debit cards. 
This decision only relates to payments Mr M made using his debit card as the credit card 
payments have been considered separately. The following transactions were made using 
Mr Ms debit card:
Date Amount Running total
20 September 2018 £1,200 £1,200
1 October 2018 £2,500 £3,700
£3,700
 
Eventually, Mr Ms trades started making losses. He was persuaded by a senior account 
manager to deposit more funds to recover his losses, but this money was also lost. 
Subsequently, Mr M contacted the financial services regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), as well as Action Fraud. It was then that he realised hed been scammed. 
Mr M reported the matter to Bank of Ireland in early 2019. However, it declined to refund the 
money he lost and said it was unable to raise a chargeback on these payments. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M referred his complaint to our service and the matter has since been 
escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the information Ive found during my research on GFC Investment, Im satisfied that it 
wasnt a legitimate trader. It wasnt regulated (as required) by the FCA at the time it 
contracted with Mr M. Theres also a warning about it published by the FCA, albeit several 
months after Mr M made the final payment he disputes.
While I think that GFC Investment was likely operating a scam, the chargeback scheme 
rules dont automatically entitle Mr M to a refund based on these circumstances. The 
chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes between 
merchants and cardholders. 
From the information Ive seen, the scheme operator relevant to Mr Ms debit card payments 
is Visa and not MasterCard like our investigator suggested in his view. But this difference 
isnt material to the outcome of this case. Ill explain why.
Visa does give chargeback rights in relation to investments, but those rights are very narrow. 
Reason Code 13.5 (previously 53) allows claims for misrepresentation for investments 
where the merchant refuses to allow the cardholder to withdraw available balances. 
But Visa requires very specific evidence  a copy of the cardholders investment account 
showing the date, the withdrawal amount, and the available balance at the time the 
withdrawal request was made. My role is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or 
scheme rules, but to determine whether the card issuer (Bank of Ireland in this case) acted 
fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf 
of its cardholder. 
Mr M has told our investigator that he didnt make a withdrawal request before contacting 
Bank of Ireland. In the circumstances, I dont think his chargeback claim would have been 
considered valid if Bank of Ireland had presented it. Even if Im wrong about that, it doesnt 
appear as though Mr M was in possession of the required specific evidence when he 
contacted Bank of Ireland. Or, that he would have been able to provide it if it had been 
requested at the time. I understand there may be good reasons for that, but it doesnt 
change Visas chargeback scheme requirements. 
Because of this, I dont think Bank of Ireland acted unfairly or unreasonably by not pursuing 
the chargeback. Much like the investigators explanation in relation to MasterCards 
chargeback scheme rules (which arent relevant to this complaint), under Visas rules (which 
are relevant), there was no reasonable prospect of success. 
I would also add here, that had Mr M been able to provide the evidence Visa requires, he 
wouldnt have been entitled to all of the disputed payments. He would have only been 
entitled to the requested withdrawal amount, or the available balance at the time of making 
the withdrawal request, which was declined by the merchant.
The next question Ive considered is whether Bank of Ireland ought to have intervened 
before allowing any of these payments to be made.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent bank to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
The disputed payments were made by Mr M using his legitimate security credentials. 
I therefore conclude that these were authorised payments for which Mr M is liable unless theres evidence that Bank of Ireland could and should reasonably have done more to 
protect him, and that this would have made a difference to his decision-making. 
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Bank of Ireland ought to 
have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify 
unusual transactions, or other indicators, that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in 
some situations, make additional checks before processing payments, or declined them 
altogether, to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
I dont think there was a reason for Bank of Ireland to have challenged either of the disputed 
payments. There was no regulator warning about GFC Investment at the time these were 
authorised by Mr M. And given the individual amounts involved, I dont consider the 
payments as particularly unusual or suspicious such that they ought to have triggered Bank 
of Irelands fraud detection systems. Afterall, it must balance the extent to which it intervenes 
in payments to try and prevent fraud against the risk of unnecessarily inconveniencing or 
delaying legitimate transactions. 
In summary, I dont think Bank of Ireland ought to have prevented these authorised 
payments from being sent, and I dont think there was a viable route for it to raise a 
chargeback.
I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr M. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time and our investigator initially upheld the complaint. 
But I can only fairly make an award if I think that Bank of Irelands errors caused, or 
contributed to, his loss. In this case, I think that its the cruel actions of the scammers that 
caused the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman