DRN-2733459
The complaint
Mr C complains about charges for damage and excess mileage applied when he returned 
his car at the end of a hire purchase agreement provided by BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited (BMWFS).
Mr C has been represented. But for clarity, Ill only refer to Mr C in my decision. 
What happened
In August 2017, Mr C entered into a three year hire purchase agreement to acquire a used 
car. At the point Mr C acquired the car, it was around two years old and had travelled 12,560 
miles. As part of the agreement, Mr C had an agreed mileage allowance of 24,000 miles. 
The agreement reached maturity in August 2020. But due to restrictions imposed as a result 
of COVID-19, the car wasnt collected until September 2020. The car was collected by 
BMWFS agents  who Ill refer to as B.
Mr C complains that after the car was collected by B, he received a report from BMWFS 
charging him for damage to the car and excess mileage. He also said he had to insure and 
tax the car for longer because BMWFS collected it late.
B issued a report on the condition of Mr Cs car after it collected it. Following this, BMWFS 
told Mr C the following damage was outside of fair wear and tear:
1. Left hand front wheel  alloy rim scratched over 100mm
2. Right hand front wheel - alloy rim scratched over 100mm
3. Bumper front  right corner scratched greater than 25mm through top coat
4. Left hand front door  scratched greater than 25mm through top coat
5. Left hand right door - scratched greater than 25mm through top coat
It also said that as Mr C had exceeded his agreed mileage limit by 17,908 miles, hed need 
to pay an excess mileage charge. In total Mr C was charged £323 for the damage and 
£2,847.37 for the excess mileage. 
Mr C made a complaint to BMWFS. He said:
The damage to the two front wheels shouldnt be charged as he paid a premium 
insurance when he acquired the car and so the insurance should cover the cost of 
the damage
He was told not to worry about the mileage at the time he acquired the car. He said 
he was told this amount would be waived if he acquired another car. But due to 
COVID-19 he was now not in a financial position to acquire a new car. He also said 
because BMWFS couldnt collect the car until September 2020, he had to keep the 
car for longer and so the car had additional mileage added to it
He incurred costs of £141.63 for additional insurance and £17.06 for road tax. As 
BMWFS delayed collection, it should refund this amount
He didnt dispute the damage charges for the bumper front and both front doors.
In November 2020, BMWFS issued its final response to the complaint. It said the damage 
charges and the excess mileage charges had been applied correctly. It also credited Mr Cs 
account with the cost of the additional insurance and road tax. And it said a cheque Mr C 
had paid towards the costs had been credited to the account. It explained the outstanding 
balance was now £2,913.37.
Unhappy with this, Mr C referred his complaint to our service. He reiterated what he said he 
was told about exceeding the mileage allowance. And he also said he was unhappy with the 
impact to his credit file.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought the charges were applied fairly in line 
with the industry standard - The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Associations (BVRLA) 
fair wear and tear guidelines. She said she didnt think the supplying dealership had 
incorrectly advised Mr C about the mileage allowance. And she said BMWFS only collected 
the car 17 days later than it should have She also thought BMWFS had correctly reported 
the adverse information to credit reference agencies. 
Mr C disagreed and said that the selling dealership accepted in writing that it had told Mr C 
he didnt have to pay the mileage charge if he acquired a new car. Unhappy with this, Mr Cs 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Mr C hasnt disputed the charges for the bumper front and both front doors. And BMWFS 
has already credited Mr Cs account with the cost of the additional insurance and road tax he 
paid to store the car for an additional 17 days. So I havent considered these complaint 
points as part of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Cs 
complaint against BMWFS.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr C has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.  
Alloy damage
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the 
first leasing cycle. 
The car was around two years old at the point of inspection and it had covered around 
12,560 miles. So, while Ill take into consideration the BVRLA guidance, Ill also think about 
whats fair and reasonable for a car of this age and mileage.
In relation to alloys, BVRLA guidance says: 
Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. 
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable.
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. 
There should be no rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels.Ive looked at the photographs provided for each of the alloys where damage was identified 
by B. The photographs provided for both alloys all show scuffing exceeding 50mm. This has 
been measured with a ruler which is shown in each of the photographs. 
In light of this, Im satisfied BMWFS is entitled to charge Mr C for the damage to the alloys 
as it falls outside of fair wear and tear.
Mr C says he purchased a premium insurance when he acquired the car and so this should 
cover the cost of the alloy damage identified by B. However, Mr C would have needed to 
make a claim to the insurance provider as per its terms and conditions before the car was 
returned. This wouldnt be the responsibility of BMWFS. So whilst I appreciate Mr C says he 
paid for a premium insurance, hed need to take this up with the insurance provider directly.
Excess mileage
Under Mr Cs hire purchase agreement, the car could cover 24,000 miles over a three year 
period without incurring excess mileage charges. When Mr C obtained the car, it had 
completed 12,560 miles. But when B collected the car from Mr C, it had completed 54,468 
miles. This is 17,908 miles more than the mileage allowance.
Ive thought about whether I think it is fair and reasonable for BMWFS to charge Mr C for the 
additional mileage the car travelled. 
The hire purchase agreement Mr C signed states:
Maximum Total Mileage: 36560
We will charge you 15.90 pence for each mile in excess of the Maximum Total Mileage.
Im satisfied the agreement clearly states how much Mr C would need to pay for each 
additional mile he travelled in the car, if it was returned with more than 36,560 miles. 
Ive gone on to think about what Mr C says he was told about the excess mileage. 
When I consider whether a misrepresentation has been made or not, I need to be satisfied 
that the supplying dealership told Mr C a false statement of fact about the agreement, and 
that statement induced him into entering the contract to acquire the car, when he otherwise 
wouldnt have. 
Mr C says he was told he wouldnt need to pay the excess mileage if he acquired a new car 
with BMWFS at the end of the agreement. And BMWFS appears to accept this might have 
been said. In an email to this service, it said: The retailer has correctly advised the 
customer, if they part exchange a vehicle at the retailer, they will take the vehicle in its 
condition and there would be no damage or excess mileage charges as the retailer settles 
the agreement on the customers behalf. So Im satisfied a statement was made to Mr C 
along these lines. 
Having said this, Im not persuaded that the statement the supplying dealership made was 
false. I say this because Mr C didnt acquire a new car at the end of the hire purchase 
agreement. And if he had done, the statement would have been true, as confirmed by 
BMWFS. So because there has been no false statement made to Mr C, it follows that I dont 
think the agreement was misrepresented to him.
I appreciate Mr C would have liked to have acquired another car with BMWFS and so he 
wouldnt have likely incurred excess mileage charges. However, due to the impact of 
COVID-19, this was no longer feasible. Im sorry to hear about the situation Mr C found 
himself in as a result of COVID-19. And whilst I appreciate that had COVID-19 not taken 
place, Mr C may have acquired a new car with BMWFS, unfortunately this didnt happen. So I think BMWFS is entitled to charge Mr C for the excess mileage hes travelled in line with 
the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
Ive also considered what Mr C has said about the additional mileage added to the car as 
BMWFS didnt collect it on the date the agreement had matured. However, the car was 
collected 17 days after the agreement ended. And Ive seen an earlier email from Mr C 
before the agreement ended asking not to be charged for excess mileage. So, I think its 
very unlikely that most of the excess mileage was incurred during these 17 days and think 
its more likely the excess mileage was incurred during the previous 36 months Mr C had the 
car. In addition, Mr C wasnt charged by BMWFS to drive the car for an additional 17 days. 
So I dont think BMWFS need to make any deductions to the excess mileage allowance for 
the additional 17 days Mr C had the car after the agreement ended.
Finally, Ive considered what Mr C told us about the information on his credit file. I 
understand that BMWFS has reported adverse information to Mr Cs credit file as it hasnt 
received the total amount owed by Mr C for the damage charges or the excess mileage 
charges. I appreciate that the reporting of this information has had a considerable impact to 
Mr Cs credit score. However, because Mr C hasnt repaid the outstanding amount owed and 
it has remained outstanding since late 2020, BMWFS hasnt unfairly reported adverse 
information to the credit reference agencies.
Overall, Im satisfied that BMWFS is entitled to charge Mr C for the damage to the two alloys 
and the excess mileage covered. As Mr C has an outstanding balance, I would like to remind 
BMWFS to treat Mr C with forbearance and due consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman