DRN-4197855
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles Card lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr B applied for a credit card. Marbles approved the application and gave Mr B 
a card with an initial credit limit of £1200. The credit limit was increased to £2700 in 
September 2019, to £3500 in February 2020 and to £4250 in November 2021.
Mr B complained that the lending was irresponsible.
Marbles didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had caried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr B.
Mr B remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Marbles had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
Mr B didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Bs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, Marbles needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks 
to ensure that Mr B could sustainably repay what was being lent to him. Theres no set list of 
checks that a lender has to carry out. But lenders must have regard to things like the amount 
being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly repayments and the consumers 
individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Account opening
When Mr B applied for the card, he declared annual income of £12,400. Marbles carried out 
a credit search and found that Mr B had unsecured debt of around £5300. There was no 
adverse information on his credit file other than a historic CCJ.
Mr Bs income was relatively low in relation to the credit limit, so I think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Marbles to carry out further checks to verify Mr Bs income and 
expenditure.
This service asked Mr B to provided information about his financial circumstances at the time 
of the application, in order to see what these checks might have shown. Mr B hasnt 
provided enough information for me to determine whether the lending decision as fair. 
Because of the lack of information, Im unable to say that the lending decision was unfair.
Credit limit increase to £2700
Marbles carried out a credit search and found that Mr B had unsecured debt of around 
£6100, about 50% of which was revolving debt. There was no adverse information on his 
credit file other than a historic CCJ.
Marbles also looked at how Mr B was managing the account. All of his payment were up to 
date. There had been no late payments and Mr B regularly paid more than the minimum 
monthly payment. Mr B hadnt exceeded the credit limit and had utilised only around 50% of 
the available credit limit.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Marbles carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before increasing the credit limit. Im satisfied that the lending decision was fair because 
there was nothing in the information gathered which suggested that Mr B wasnt likely to be 
able to sustainably repay the lending.
Credit limit increase to £3500
Marbles carried out a credit search and found that Mr B had unsecured debt of around 
£5100, about £3150 of which was revolving debt. There was no adverse information on his 
credit file other than a historic CCJ.
Marbles also looked at how Mr B was managing the account. All of his payment were up to 
date. There had been no late payments and Mr B regularly paid more than the minimum 
monthly payment. Mr B hadnt exceeded the credit limit and had utilised only around £1700 
of the available credit limit.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Marbles carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before increasing the credit limit. Im satisfied that the lending decision was fair because 
there was nothing in the information gathered which suggested that Mr B wasnt likely to be 
able to sustainably repay the lending.
Credit limit increase to £4250
Marbles carried out a credit search and found that Mr B had unsecured debt of around 
£7100, about £5300 of which was revolving debt. There was no adverse information on his 
credit file other than a historic CCJ.
Marbles also looked at how Mr B was managing the account. All of his payment were up to 
date. There had been no late payments and Mr B regularly paid more than the minimum 
monthly payment. Mr B hadnt exceeded the credit limit and had utilised only around £1400 
of the available credit limit.
Because Mr Bs unsecured debt had increased significantly, I think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Marbles to carry out further checks.
This service asked Mr B to provide information about his financial circumstances at the time 
in order to see what further checks wouldve shown. Mr B hasnt provided enough 
information for me to determine whether the lending decision was fair. Because of the lack of 
information Im unable to conclude that the lending decision was unfair.
For the reasons Ive given I dont think Marbles lent irresponsibly.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman