DRN-3174121
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank (Northern Bank) 
wont refund money she lost when she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mrs M received a call from scammers in June 2020. They said they were calling about 
unpaid tax to HMRC. Mrs M was told she had an outstanding tax bill and needed to make a 
payment immediately or else face arrest. The fraudsters were able to make it look like they 
were calling from a genuine number for the Court of Appeal Civil Division. Subsequently, 
Mrs M also received a letter about unpaid tax purporting to be from HMRC.
The tactics used by the fraudsters prompted Mrs M to make payments as instructed. Over a 
course of five days, she sent nine payments totalling £8,664 to seven different accounts.
Payment 
SequenceDate Time Details Amount
1 25/06/20 13:21 To payee 1 £995
2 25/06/20 14:31 To payee 1 £969
3 29/06/20 09:23 To payee 2 £999
4 29/06/20 09:33 To payee 3 £994
5 29/06/20 09:38 To payee 4 £807
6 29/06/20 10:17 To payee 3 £998
7 29/06/20 11:24 To payee 5 £997
8 30/06/20 09:05 To payee 6 £995
9 30/06/20 10:12 To payee 7 £910
But then Mrs M grew suspicious and realised that shed been scammed. She reported the 
matter to Northern Bank, and it looked into recovering her money from the recipient 
accounts. But most of the money had already been transferred out and a fraction of what 
shed sent was recovered. 
Northern Bank said it wouldnt refund the remaining payments as Mrs M had authorised 
them. 
Our investigator thought the first payment Mrs M made wasnt so out of character that it 
ought to have given Northern Bank cause for concern. But he thought it ought to have done 
more once it identified the second payment as suspicious. He concluded that Northern Bank 
was liable to refund all the payments barring the first one, less the amount that had already 
been recovered. The investigator also recommended £250 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Northern Bank disagreed and said it provided Mrs M with warnings and blocked an attempt 
to make the second payment. But she assured the bank, when called, that the payment was 
fine. In summary, Northern Bank states it cant be expected to carry out urgent detective 
work and its unlikely Mrs M would have divulged that shed been contacted by HMRC no 
matter what questions it had asked.
Northern Bank disagreed and said it provided Mrs M with warnings and blocked an attempt 
to make the second payment. But she assured the bank, when called, that the payment was 
fine. In summary, Northern Bank states it cant be expected to carry out urgent detective
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month. I explained why I intended to conclude that 
Northern Bank acted fairly and reasonably in following Mrs Ms payment instructions and in 
its subsequent dealings with her about this matter. 
I invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Neither Mrs M nor Northern Bank provided any further comments in response to my 
provisional decision. 
So, what follows is my provisional decision made final. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs M; shes clearly been the victim of a cruel and 
sophisticated scam. My role is to consider Northern Banks actions, and I can only make an 
award or direction if I find it acted unfairly.
Its common ground that Mrs M authorised the payments using her security credentials. She 
believed at the time she was paying a debt due to HMRC. I therefore accept that the 
transactions were authorised payments, even though Mrs M was a victim of a sophisticated 
scam. So, although she didnt intend to send the money to the fraudsters, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs M is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that 
it would have been fair and reasonable for Northern Bank to have:
monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken additional 
steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers against the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive therefore considered whether Northern Bank should have looked into the circumstances 
of the payments in question before deciding whether to process them. In other words, were 
there fraud triggers that meant it ought to have identified a payment as being unusual or 
uncharacteristic that Id expect Northern Bank to have identified that Mrs M might be at risk from fraud or a scam.
Looking at the account history over a 12-month period leading up to the first transaction, the 
payment doesnt appear to be unusual or out of character. Mrs M had occasionally made 
transfers for similar amounts during this period. So, I dont think its unreasonable that this 
payment wasnt flagged by Northern Banks systems as suspicious.
Later that day, the second payment  to the same payee  was flagged as suspicious and 
Northern Bank phoned Mrs M to verify the details. Ive listened to this call. The agent told 
Mrs M that the payment looked unusual and asked questions about the payee as well as the 
nature of the payment. She asked Mrs M: did she know where it was going; did she know 
the individual; was it a business; did she get what she was paying for; what was it that shed 
bought; and how did she receive the payment details?
In response to these questions, Mrs M said the payment was for services which she 
described as personal and for personal purposes. She answered yes to making the 
payment to a business  she added it was based in the UK  and confirmed shed received 
the service she was making the payment for. Mrs M also said that shed obtained the 
payments details over the phone.
During the call, the agent also informed Mrs M that the bank wanted to make sure she 
wasnt at risk of any type of scam or fraud. And she checked that Mrs M was happy she 
wasnt at risk of fraud. 
Having carefully considered what was discussed during the call, its my judgement that 
Northern Bank asked Mrs M meaningful and pointed questions about the payment and the 
payee. It also adequately cautioned her to check the legitimacy of the transaction before 
proceeding. 
Ive also thought about the answers Mrs M gave in response to Northern Banks questions. 
I agree with our investigator that Mrs M sounded reluctant to share too much information 
about the payment. I consider there were indications in Mrs Ms answers that she didnt wish 
to discuss the nature of the payment any further with the agent  shed already referred to it 
as personal on two occasions (which I think many people would interpret as a signal to 
mind their own business). 
Mrs M told our investigator that she couldnt remember why she wasnt forthcoming with her 
answers. But Ive seen an email she sent to Northern Bank the day she reported the scam. 
She explained that shed been told by the fraudsters that it was illegal for her to share any 
information with third parties until the cases against her had been closed. So, this may 
explain why Mrs Ms answers were vague and misleading (insofar as a debt for unpaid tax to 
HMRC wouldnt normally be described as a personal payment for personal services to a UK 
business).
Ive thought about whether Northern Bank should have probed Mrs M further, considering 
her response to the question about being happy she wasnt at risk of fraud was I really hope 
not. But given what Mrs M has said she was told by the fraudsters, as it stands, Im not 
persuaded she would have been more forthcoming about the true nature of the payment.  
And I dont think the scam would have uncovered itself had Northern Bank probed further. 
Banks have a balance to strike between protecting their customer and executing a properly 
authorised payment request within a reasonable period. Ultimately, Mrs M assured Northern 
Bank she knew where the payment was going. I dont think further questioning would 
reasonably have alerted Northern Bank that Mrs M may be at risk of financial harm. So, on 
balance, I dont think Northern Bank acted unreasonably by processing the payment.The next five payments, which were sent four days later, were made in the space of two 
hours. The last of these payments was flagged by Northern Banks systems, but it was 
subsequently released without further intervention. Similarly, out of the two final payments 
which were made the following day, the last one was also flagged and later released without 
additional intervention.
Northern Bank has said that the payments were released following a review based on the 
previous conversation it had with Mrs M, where she confirmed shed authorised the 
personal payment. But I dont consider its reasoning to be logical, not least because the 
subsequent payments which were flagged were being made to several different payees (see 
table above). I consider that Northern Bank should have intervened and made further 
enquiries to satisfy itself that Mrs M wasnt at risk from fraud or a scam. Its also arguable 
that it should have intervened much earlier on the day that five payments were sent. I say 
this because Mrs M was making several payments to different payees that shed not made a 
payment to before, and in a quick succession. This pattern was unusual given her previous 
payment history.
But I also need to consider the likelihood of a different outcome had such an intervention 
happened. Much for the reasons Ive gave for why I think its unlikely that additional probing 
on 25 June 2020 would have uncovered the scam, I havent seen enough that leads me to 
conclude Mrs M would have answered differently had Northern Bank called her again on 
29 and 30 June. Im mindful that by this point shed received the letter purporting to be from 
HMRC. And she told Northern Bank she completely believed that shed been contacted by 
HMRC. She would still have believed it was illegal to disclose any information about the 
investigation into her tax affairs to third parties. 
So, on balance, I think its more likely than not that Mrs M would have gone ahead with the 
payments even if Northern Bank had contacted her to make further enquiries and/or given 
another fraud warning. Therefore, on balance (and taking into account of the particular 
circumstances of this individual case), I dont think Northern Bank acted unreasonably by 
processing the payments on these dates in line with Mrs Ms authorised payment 
instructions and a banks legal obligations to process such payments without undue delay. 
Ive also considered whether Northern Bank took reasonable steps to try and recover 
Mrs Ms money once it became aware that shed been scammed. From the information Ive 
seen, Northern Bank raised a claim against the receiving bank within around 15 minutes of 
Mrs M reporting the scam. Unfortunately, by the time she was even aware of the scam, the 
fraudster had removed most of the funds from the beneficiary accounts. I understand Mrs M 
has been frustrated by the lack of contact, but, other than report the scam in a timely 
manner, theres not much more Northern Bank could have done.
I appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mrs M not knowing whether Northern Bank 
would ultimately recover any funds. But I dont think this is due to any failing by Northern 
Bank. From what Ive seen, Im persuaded Northern Bank did what it should have done in an 
attempt to recover the funds.
Its very unfortunate that Mrs M has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated 
scam. But considering the specific circumstances of this case, my provisional conclusion is 
that it wouldnt be fair of me to say Northern Bank should have done more to prevent Mrs M 
from losing this money. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman