DRN-1306647
The complaint
Mrs R says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs R applied for a credit card with Egg in 2002. At the same time, PPI was added to the 
credit card, providing her with cover in the event of disability and unemployment. It also 
included cover for death and serious illness.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs R disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Before adding the policy, Egg had to make it clear to Mrs R that it was optional and get her 
agreement for it to do so. She says it didnt do that. Im satisfied Mrs R applied for the credit 
card online, so Ive looked at the screens I believe shed have seen and completed during 
the application process. These included a section on PPI. The section included a box to click 
on if she wanted PPI, and an equally prominent one to click on, just below it, if she didnt. 
Eggs internal records of the application details she provided indicate she chose to have PPI. 
So, I think Egg made it clear that it was selling PPI, that it was optional and that Mrs R 
agreed to have it, knowing she had a choice. But, given that was back in 2002, its 
understandable if she doesnt remember that now.
I dont think Egg recommended the PPI to Mrs R. This means Egg didnt have to look into 
whether it was right for her. But it should have provided enough information about the PPI for 
Mrs R to make up her own mind as to whether it was right for her.
From what Ive seen, I dont think Egg made all the information Mrs R needed clear to her. 
But, having gone on to consider what difference that might have made to Mrs R, I dont think 
better information would have stopped her from buying the PPI. Thats because:
Based on what I know of Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, she was eligible for the 
PPI. And while the PPI had certain exclusions to, or limits on, the cover I cant see 
that she was affected by them. 
Mrs R says she was entitled to some redundancy pay but to no more than statutory 
sick pay. The PPI benefits would have paid out on top of these payments and for up 
to 12 months per claim. While she says her family could have helped her there was no guarantee theyd have been in a position to do so when it was needed. Overall, I 
think Mrs R would have valued the extra security the PPI provided.
Theres nothing to suggest shed have considered the monthly premium to be 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible in that Mrs R could have cancelled it at any 
time, and at no extra cost, if she no longer wanted it.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mrs Rs lost out because of how Egg sold her 
the PPI.
In saying that, Ive thought about everything Mrs Rs said. That includes, for example, that 
she didnt take PPI with other loans shed arranged. But this doesnt change my mind since I 
dont have enough information to be able to comment on her other borrowing, or on whether 
PPI was even offered to her on those occasions. But Ive seen nothing to suggest this 
particular policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I've decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman