DRN-3878272
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) 
rejected his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background 
Mr B bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2014. The purchase was 
funded in part with a credit card payment with Mr Bs Tesco credit card, and that business is 
therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In 
this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr B into believing that the panels would be 
self-funding over a 7-year period, which they werent.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr B, and that fair redress would be to make the 
panels cost no more than the benefit the system would produce over a 7-year period. The 
redress should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number 
of assumptions on future performance. 
Tesco didnt agree for the following reasons: 
Tesco felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld on Mr Bs testimony alone. It felt that 
while the installer may have expressed an opinion that the system will pay for itself in 
7 years, given the number of contributing factors and variances to the 
savings/income a system may produce, it would be impossible to factually state that 
Mr B will achieve a specific amount of benefit within certain timeframes. It felt this 
therefore didnt amount to a misrepresentation. 
It also pointed out that Mr B had a working solar panel system, which is producing 
benefits while reducing his carbon footprint.
Finally, it added Mr B had not demonstrated that he had actually paid the full cost of 
the system. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
In my provisional decision of 2 December 2022, I set out why I was minded to upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Tesco made some additional points which I will address 
below.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Tesco is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
I can see that Mr B signed a contract for the sale of the solar panel system in June 2014. 
This sets out that the annual benefit was around £1,147. The total cost of the system was 
£8,750. This is all contained within the installers own contract and the facts and figures are 
handwritten. I think the document is reliable evidence of the nature of the discussions Mr B 
likely had with the installer during the sale. 
There are a number of facts and figures on this document and I think Mr B would have been 
reliant on the sales representative to talk him through what these figures meant in financial 
terms. Based on these figures, it does look like that system would pay for itself in around 
seven and a half years. This is consistent with what Mr B says he was told. Mr Bs testimony 
has also been clear and consistent throughout this claim. 
I therefore think its more likely the installer did tell Mr B the system would likely produce the 
benefits set out in the contract, and that the system would produce sufficient benefits for Mr 
B to recover the costs of the system in around 7 years  like he says. And Im satisfied that 
Mr B relied on these representations and purchased the system on that basis.
Payments made for the system
I understand Tesco says Mr B hasnt demonstrated that hes made the full payment due 
under the solar panel contract. But I disagree. 
From Mr Bs solar panel contract document, I can see Mr B was due to pay a deposit on his 
credit card and the remaining amount was to be paid in cash on completion. I cannot see 
any evidence that any further finance was arranged for him at any point. It seems the system 
was subsequently installed as planned, and Mr B was given the relevant completion 
certificates to enable him to sign up for the Feed in Tariff scheme (FIT) and claim the 
benefits produced by the system. He was also subsequently given an invoice from the 
installer that said hed paid the full amount due under the contract. I havent seen any 
evidence that any amounts remained outstanding after the system had been installed.
I think its unlikely that the installer would have installed the system, and gone on to give 
Mr B all the completion certificates, and an invoice confirming hes made all the payments 
due under the contract, if he hadnt actually paid the amounts due under the contract. So, Im 
satisfied that Mr B did pay the amounts remaining under the contract after the deposit was 
paid on his Tesco credit card. So any redress should take account of the full amount Mr B 
paid. 
So, having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence 
supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr B was not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for him.
So, I think that Tesco didnt treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what Tesco did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Tesco needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for Tesco to put things right by recalculating the cost of the system based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr B from the solar 
panels over a 10-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits after the 10-year period. This is in line with our established 
approach to these types of cases 
Redress Period 
Mr B says he was assured the system would be self-funding in around 7 years. And I can 
see our investigator recommended that the redress period should be 7 years  in line with 
Mr Bs recollection of the sale.  But Ive decided the redress should be calculated over a 10-
year period, rather than the 7-year period Mr B has requested. This is because I need to 
ensure the redress is fair and reasonable to both Mr B and Tesco. 
The purpose of our redress methodology is to make sure Mr B doesnt suffer a financial loss, 
not to make the misrepresentation come true. Because Mr B can expect to benefit from the 
solar panels (through energy savings and Feed-In Tariff payments) for at least 20 years, I 
think a 10-year period is reasonable when calculating the redress. 
In this specific case, I do not think a shorter period would strike the appropriate balance in 
terms of fairness for both parties.  
In the event the calculation shows that Mr B is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Tesco needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr B by way of explanation. 
My understanding is that Mr B paid the initial deposit on his Tesco credit card and the 
remaining amounts in cash. Therefore, I think Tesco should pay Mr B the difference between 
what he paid in total and the self-funding amount, with 8% interest.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Tesco that means the claim should have been upheld. I intend to direct Tesco to 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Further submissions 
In response to my provisional decision, Tesco said that the documents contradicted Mr Bs 
testimony. It also wanted clarification on what evidence Id relied on to reach my decision. 
Tesco pointed out that it had seen no evidence the system wasnt self-funding. 
We explained that the evidence relied on was set out on the provisional decision and asked 
for details of what evidence Tesco had seen that contradicted Mr Bs testimony. Tesco did 
not provide more specific information about this, for example which document contradicted 
Mr Bs testimony. 
We also explained that the consumers representatives had set out the consumers loss in 
the letter of claim and Id seen nothing to dispute this. The consumers representative also 
provided recent energy bills and FIT statements to enable Tesco to work out the consumers 
loss. It also explained statements from around the time of sale were no longer available. 
I reviewed this the case again and in an email of 8 March 2023, we clarified the following 
with both Tesco and Mr Bs representative: 
The consumers representatives have told us that bills from around the time of sale are no 
longer available. Given this sale is from 2014, we dont think thats unreasonable. As Tesco might be aware, we normally expect businesses to use actual FIT statements and bills 
available to work out redress. However, where thats unavailable we expect businesses to 
use reasonable assumptions to help work out what (if any) amounts are owed to the 
consumer. Tesco can also look at any point of sale documents/estimates and figures 
recorded to help work out redress. 
As Tesco may have been advised in other cases, where bills are unavailable, to calculate 
any electricity savings Tesco should use a self-consumption rate of 37% and a default
electricity price of 16p per kWh. For clarity, the self-consumption rate is the amount of 
electricity generated by the solar panels that the consumer is able to use or self-consume 
whilst he is in his home. So we think using these figures for the period no bills are available 
are fair. 
As explained above, the recent bills Mr Bs representatives sent us were also forwarded to 
Tesco and in line with our established approached to redress, we explained Tesco could use 
these to help it calculate redress. 
Neither party made any additional comments. 
Final review 
Having reviewed the file again in its entirety, for the same reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I am still of the view that the evidence supports the conclusion that the system was 
sold on the basis that it would be self-funding in around 7 years. Based on what Ive seen, I 
think its unlikely the system is self-funding in the way the supplier said it would be. I would 
add that Mr B was given a specific estimate of the benefit his system would likely produce 
and how that would result in the system paying for itself in around 7 years  rather than the 
seller expressing a general opinion.  So having considered everything both Tesco and 
Mr Bs representatives have said, I see no reason to depart from the findings Ive made 
above in my provisional decision (as set out above). 
However, as explained in my provisional decision, if when Tesco carries out its redress 
calculation, Mr B has suffered no loss, then the calculation should be shared with Mr B by 
way of explanation. 
Putting things right 
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for Tesco to put things right by recalculating the cost of 
the system based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr B from the solar 
panels over a 10 period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits after the 10-year period. This is in line with our established approach 
to these types of cases.
As explained above, we normally expect businesses to use actual FIT statements and bills 
available to work out redress. However, where thats unavailable we expect businesses to 
use reasonable assumptions to help work out what (if any) amounts are owed to the 
consumer. Tesco can also look at any point of sale documents/estimates and figures 
recorded to help work out redress. Where bills are unavailable, to calculate any electricity 
savings Tesco should use a self-consumption rate of 37% and a default
electricity price of 16p per kWh. The bills Mr B has submitted can be used by Tesco to help it 
calculate redress. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr B is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Tesco needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr B by way of explanation. 
My understanding is that Mr B paid the initial deposit on his Tesco credit card and the 
remaining amounts in cash. Therefore, I think Tesco should pay Mr B the difference between 
what he paid in total and the self-funding amount, with 8% interest.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Tesco that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct Tesco to pay £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman