DRN-3181496
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under 
her home contents insurance involving a replacement carpet.
What happened
In July 2020 Miss Ps neighbour suffered a flooding incident. This impacted on Miss Ps 
property and she claimed to RSA for the damage caused to a carpet. 
Miss P says the carpet fitters unrolled the new carpet for her lounge, on the road outside her 
property. She was surprised by this and concerned that when it was rolled up again it picked 
up dirt and debris from the road, marking the carpet.
RSA says the carpet roll was five metres wide and had to be transported on a pole. It says 
the only option for its fitters was to unroll the carpet outside, as it wouldnt fit inside without 
damaging Miss Ps property. It says if she provided evidence showing the carpet was dirty it 
would arrange for it to be professionally cleaned. It also says if she wanted to arrange a 
professional clean herself and could show evidence of damage, dirt or debris it would 
investigate further. RSA felt that as only the backing of the carpet touched the ground this 
will not have caused damage.   
Miss P remained concerned that debris had been brought into her house when the carpet 
had been rolled back up. She decided to refer her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. He acknowledged her concern that the carpet was unrolled 
outside. But he didnt think she had shown the carpet had been damaged or marked.
Miss P disagreed with this outcome. She supplied several photos showing the underside of 
her carpet. This didnt alter our investigators view, so she asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint. I understand this will be 
disappointing for her, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Miss P has another complaint that is being handled by our service. This relates to other 
aspects of her claim with RSA. My focus here is on the impact of the carpet being unrolled 
outside. 
Miss P has supplied photos of the carpet, as it was unrolled outside her property. I can 
understand why she had concerns with this, given the risk that the carpet could become 
damaged or stained. RSA explains this approach was necessary because of the size of the 
carpet. This meant it was transported on a pole and had to be unrolled outside prior to then 
being fitted inside Miss Ps home. It explains this couldnt be done inside without causing 
damage. From the information provided, this explanation appears reasonable. 
I note Miss Ps comment that the fitters couldve used a protective sheet or the old carpet to 
lay the new carpet on, to avoid it touching the ground. I agree that this seems a reasonable 
approach. However, my focus is on whether the actions of RSAs fitters can be shown to 
have caused damage to the carpet.  
RSA did offer to consider the matter further if Miss P could provide evidence the carpet was 
dirty or damaged. Miss P wasnt prepared to incur the cost of cleaning the carpet 
professionally. She thought it was already clear the road had dirt and debris on it, and that 
this would be picked up by the carpet. She also explains some small stones were found on 
the carpet after fitting.
I have considered all the photos provided by Miss P. She has circled two sections of the 
underside of the carpet. This was taken from an upstairs window while the carpet was rolled 
up on the ground outside her property. Some marks can be seen on this photo. I have also 
seen several other photos of the underside of the carpet. Some of these show small 
indentations, which I expect could occur from contact with the road. Perhaps from small 
stones or the road surface. The underside of the carpet also shows some small marks in 
several areas.    
Based on what I have seen, it hasnt been shown that the carpet has been damaged other 
than some minor marks to the underside. I acknowledge Miss Ps concerns, but these marks 
wont be visible when the carpet is laid in position. I havent seen any evidence of damage to 
the topside of the carpet.  
Because of this, I dont think RSA has treated Miss P unfairly. So, I cant reasonably ask it to 
do anymore to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman