DRN-2140367
The complaint
Mrs D complains on behalf of herself and the other partners of a hospitality business, D, via 
their representative, about the avoidance of their policy and decline of their claim for damage 
to Ds premises following a fire, by their insurer Builders Direct SA. 
What happened
Mrs D and her partners own and run the business. References to Mrs D include her partners 
and representative. References to Builders Direct include its agents. Ds partners seek an 
indemnity for their losses suffered as a result of a serious fire which closed their business. 
Mrs D took out commercial insurance with Builders Direct via a broker, on 13 February 2018. 
The policy renewed in February 2019 and D was damaged by fire later that month. Mrs D 
made a claim and said that substantial repairs were required. She said Builders Direct didnt 
respond until 19 March 2019 when it confirmed that it was avoiding the policy (treating it as if 
It had never existed), refusing the claim, and returning the premium.
 
Builders Direct said Ds risk had been misrepresented when the policy was renewed. It said 
one of the questions asked was, Please confirm the Food Standards Agency (FSA) rating 
for this insured. The answer provided by Mrs Ds broker was, 5 star. Builders Direct said 
the reason for avoidance is that D didnt have a rating when the policy renewed in 2019. It 
said it would have refused to renew the policy had D disclosed a rating of less than three 
stars, or if there was no rating because no food was sold on the premises. 
Builders Direct also said its a policy condition that D be registered with the FSA and tell it 
immediately of a rating of less than three stars. It said theres been no such notification from 
D. Builders Direct said that the Insurance Act 2015 requires the insured to make a fair 
presentation of the risk which means the disclosure of every material circumstance which 
the insured ought to know and representation of facts to be substantially correct. It said a 
misrepresentation was made about the FSA rating at renewal as there was no rating at all. It 
said it was entitled to avoid the policy from renewal and this meant there was no liability for 
Ds claim, and it returned Ds premium.
 
Mrs D said their broker checked Ds food hygiene rating on the FSA website before the 
policy started and it showed a five-star rating. She said this was a glitch which meant the 
FSA displayed out of date ratings. Mrs D said D doesnt serve food and had made an 
innocent mistake about this, but she thought the rating was irrelevant to the risk to insurers. 
Mrs D said if this was so important to Builders Direct it could have reviewed the rating itself. 
She said the Insurance Act 2015 obliges the customer to provide disclosure which gives the 
insurer sufficient information to put a prudent insurer on notice that it needs to make further 
enquiries for the purpose of revealing those material circumstances. Mrs D thought they had 
complied with this, making a fair presentation of the risk, which was accurate to the best of 
their brokers knowledge.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said D had a duty to 
make a fair presentation of the risk, but their broker appears to have provided information 
about the hygiene rating without their knowledge. But the investigator said if Mrs D had 
checked the statement of fact as required, they wouldve seen the incorrect information. He 
said Builders Direct has sent information to show it wouldnt have provided cover had it 
known the facts. He said it was fair for Builders Direct to have avoided the policy and not 
dealt with the claim.
Mrs Ds representative said that they appreciated the investigators comments but wanted 
the decision to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Builders Direct said Ds risk has been misrepresented. Additionally, it said the insurance 
policy contains two conditions that require D to register with the FSA and disclose to the 
insurer a hygiene rating below three stars. Builders Direct said D was in breach of these 
conditions. This appears to be correct, but this wouldnt lead, under The Insurance Act 2015 
to the avoidance of the policy and so, I have concentrated on whether or not there has been 
a misrepresentation.
Mrs D said Builders Direct needed to show that the information about Ds food hygiene rating 
was material in that it would have affected the decision of the reasonably prudent 
underwriter as to whether to provide cover and on what terms. She said they didnt serve 
food so how can a food hygiene rating be deemed material.
Mrs D is correct to say that Builders Direct has to show the food hygiene rating was material 
to its decision as to whether or not to offer cover. But since the law in this case concerns 
misrepresentation, I dont agree that it is immaterial that D didnt serve food at all.
The relevant law in this case is the Insurance Act 2015. This places a duty on the insured to 
make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out an insurance contract (a 
policy). This means that Ds partners had to disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms;
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
Builders Direct thinks that Ds partners failed to make a fair presentation of the risk when 
they answered the question about Ds food hygiene rating. Ive looked at Ds circumstances 
when the policy was taken out and the information given. Having done so, I dont think D has 
shown that its response was not misrepresented. I will explain why. The question was put 
very clearly and asked for Ds FSA rating. I think it would have been easy for Ds partners to 
check the information given this was recorded on their Statement of Fact with a warning that 
this should be checked and any inaccuracies reported to the insurer. 
Mrs D said the question was answered on their behalf by their broker. It appears to be 
beyond doubt that D had no food hygiene rating when the policy renewed. It's not clear to 
me that D has ever served food and so I dont know how it arose that it could be described 
as having had a food hygiene rating. It follows that there hasnt been a fair presentation of 
Ds risk to Builders Direct.
And if the insured fails in their duty to make a fair presentation, the insurer has certain 
remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what The Insurance Act describes as - a qualifying breach. For it to be a qualifying breach the insurer has to show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the insured hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
Builders Direct has risks that it says it will and wont cover (as do all insurers). It said had it 
known at renewal of the policy that D had no food hygiene rating, then it wouldnt have 
offered cover. It is not for me to say whether I think this is right or wrong. It is my role to say 
whether I think it is fair and reasonable for Builders Direct to avoid the policy and not deal 
with the claim. 
Builders Direct has referred to its underwriting guidance which it says reflects its lack of risk 
appetite for insuring businesses that have a lower than three-star hygiene rating, or no rating 
at all. I have now seen the underwriting guidance provided by a business contracted to 
Builders Direct that Builders Direct relies upon. This is commercially sensitive information, 
but I can confirm that it states that no insurance cover is to be offered to a business in Ds 
position. This means Im satisfied Ds breach of the duty under The Insurance Act is a 
qualifying one.
The remedy available to the insurer under The Insurance Act depends on whether the 
qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless, or careless. The Insurance Act states: A 
qualifying breach is deliberate or reckless if the insured knew that it was in breach of the 
duty of fair presentation, or did not care whether or not it was in breach of that duty. It is for 
the insurer to show that a qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless. 
Builders Direct said its question was clear, and D gave an incorrect answer, and I agree. It 
hasnt said that the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless and by refunding the 
premium to D it has treated the misrepresentation as careless. I think this is fair in the 
circumstances. 
As I consider Ds misrepresentation to have been careless, I have looked at the remedies 
available to Builders Direct under The Insurance Act. The Act states that if the 
misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate or reckless, but the insurer wouldnt 
have offered the insurance if theyd had the full facts, they can avoid the policy, but they 
must refund the premium.
In conclusion, it seems clear to me that D failed to make a fair presentation of its risk even 
though Builders Direct had been specific on wanting to know about its food hygiene rating. If 
D had disclosed the correct information Builders Direct simply wouldnt have offered cover. 
Therefore, Im satisfied there was a qualifying misrepresentation and Builders Direct was 
entitled to avoid the policy, and this means it didnt need to deal with Ds claim. And  as The 
Insurance Act reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
following the requirements of the Act here produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this 
complaint.
I realise this will be disappointing to Mrs D and I would point out that it remains open to her 
to consider a complaint against her broker if she thinks that she hasnt received good service 
concerning Ds insurance arrangements. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the partners of D 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman