DRN-3438360
Complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) closed her account and then 
registered a fraud prevention marker against her.
Background
In July 2021, Miss As current account received payments totalling £1,930.00 (in four 
separate transfers of £400, £460, £520 and £550) into her account. £1,810.00 of these funds 
were immediately transferred on to a third-party. 
Barclays subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank, responsible for 
sending the four payments to Miss As account, stating that the payee of the funds had 
reported being a victim of fraud. As a result of this notification, Barclays reviewed Miss As 
account. Its investigation led it to decide to close the account and record a fraud prevention 
marker.
Miss A was unhappy and complained. Barclays looked at Miss As complaint and didnt 
uphold it. As Miss A remained dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss A is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss A was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Miss A allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss As account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss As 
account in July 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss A was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Miss A has said she lent money to a friend and she provided her account details for her 
friend to pay her back. However, her friend overpaid her and asked her to return the 
overpayments by transferring the money to another account. When asked to elaborate upon 
this by our adjudicator, Miss A said she lent her friend around £200 to cover university fees. 
And when she noticed that more than this was paid to her she questioned this and was told 
the payments were sent to her by mistake and she was asked to send the funds on as it was 
urgent. She provided some messages from a messaging app in order to support what she 
said and confirmed that she was no longer in contact with her friend as shes left the country.
Ive thought about what Miss A has said. But while she has provided us with some 
messages from a messaging app, these merely show the request to pass funds onto another 
account. There isnt anything in the messages which confirms Miss A was being repaid 
funds that she was owed or even that shed lent money to her friend in the first place. 
Indeed, Miss As statements dont show a corresponding transfer or cash withdrawal to show 
she lent her friend money either. Instead what they do show is that Miss As had only 
recently been opened and hadnt really been used. 
Furthermore, I also find it difficult to accept that Miss A reasonably believed she was merely 
returning overpayments to her friend when her statements clearly show that the funds 
received didnt come from her friend in the first place and she was transferring them on to a 
completely different party. And the amount Miss A retained after transferring the 
overpayments didnt correspond to the amount she says she lent her friend either.   
Im afraid the implausibility of Miss As version of events, the payee and the person being 
transferred the funds not being Miss As friend and Miss A being unable to provide anything 
to corroborate she lent her friend money in the first place, all mean that I cant reasonably 
conclude she was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not she 
was complicit in her account receiving fraudulent funds.  
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss As account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss A was complicit in this. As this 
is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did. I now turn to the closure of Miss As account. The terms and conditions of Miss As account 
state Barclays could close an account in certain circumstances. These included where it had 
reasonable grounds for thinking a customer commit(ted) (or attempt) fraud against us or 
someone else.
Ive already explained why I think Barclays was reasonably entitled to conclude that Miss As 
account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in 
recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much 
the same reasons, the terms and conditions permitted Barclays to close Miss As account. 
So overall I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards Miss A and Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss A  especially in light of the 
ongoing impact shes said the fraud marker is having on her. But I hope shell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Miss A might find that shes able to open an account with another bank as long 
as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman