DRN-4497817
The complaint
Mr H has complained about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) dealt with a claim 
under an appliance warranty.
What happened
Mr H contacted D&G to make a claim when rust appeared on his washer-dryer. D&G 
investigated the claim and declined it because it said rust and corrosion wasnt covered by 
the policy. 
When Mr H complained, D&G maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mr H 
complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said D&G had 
fairly applied the policy terms and conditions when declining the claim.
As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr H contacted D&G when he found a rust patch and bubbling on the washer-dryer. He 
wanted D&G to replace the machine. An engineer visited and confirmed there was a small 
rust patch on the front of the machine. Ive also seen a more recent report Mr H provided to 
this service that also confirmed the rust. 
D&Gs policy exclusions said it didnt cover cosmetic issues such as damage to paintwork, 
dents or scratches or any loss, damage or impairment caused by corrosion. So, Im satisfied 
there wasnt cover under the policy for the rust found on the washer-dryer. 
Mr H has also said he thinks it is a manufacturing fault. Looking at the policy, it covers 
breakdown and accidental damage, subject to the exclusions. I didnt see anything that said 
it covered manufacturing faults. Mr H has said this service should instruct the manufacturer 
to send an engineer to inspect the appliance who doesnt have a connection to D&G. Im 
unable to do this. D&G is the subject of this complaint and Im unable to require other 
businesses to take action.
Mr H told this service he had been advised that D&G should replace the machine as it had 
sourced it. D&G has told this service Mr H hadnt previously raised this aspect of the 
complaint with it. It also said the policy under which the previous appliance was replaced 
was a service contract, not an insurance policy, and is dealt with under a different complaints 
scheme. Mr H would need to raise this with D&G if he requires further information on this 
aspect. Im unable to comment on this any further.
Having looked at the circumstances of this claim and complaint, I dont uphold it or require 
D&G to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman