DRN-1178216
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) has been wrongly 
charging them premiums for a home emergency policy. They say, as parts for their boiler 
have been obsolete for several years, British Gas shouldnt have been collecting monthly 
premiums.
It appears from the policy documents that the policy was in Mrs Ws name only, but Ive 
referred to both Mr and Mrs W in this decision.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr and Mrs Ws boiler broke down. They called out British Gas engineers. 
British Gas' notes show engineers attended Mr and Mrs Ws home a number of times, trying 
different fixes. From what Mr and Mrs W have said, it seems some of these fixes were 
temporarily effective, before the boiler failed again. During the last visit, an engineer found a 
hole in the flue manifold, which made the boiler unsafe. The engineer told Mr and Mrs W this 
part was now obsolete and said it hadnt been made since 2014. He said theyd need to buy 
a new boiler. The boiler was disconnected a few weeks later.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with British Gas. They felt British Gas wouldve known that the 
parts for their boiler were no longer being made and that therefore, it couldnt service their 
boiler if something went wrong. They felt British Gas shouldve told them about this in 2014. 
They said if theyd known that the parts were obsolete, theyd have had a chance to budget 
for a new boiler, which they couldnt now afford. They believed British Gas should refund 
them all of the monthly premiums theyd paid since 2014 onwards.
British Gas upheld Mr and Mrs Ws complaint in part. It said manufacturers wouldnt routinely 
tell it when and if they ceased making boiler parts. So there might be times it wouldnt find 
out a part was obsolete until it tried to order that part. It said it had tried to contact Mr and 
Mrs W three times each year between 2015 and 2018 to arrange an annual service, but they 
hadnt got in touch. It explained that as Mr and Mrs Ws boiler was more than 10 years old, 
the policy wouldnt cover a replacement. 
But British Gas offered Mr and Mrs W compensation of £230. That was because it couldnt 
show that an engineer who serviced the boiler in 2018 had told them that their boiler was on 
the reduced parts list.
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with British Gas offer. They asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it was 
unreasonable that British Gas wouldnt know parts were no longer manufactured until it tried 
to order them. She could see British Gas had written to Mr and Mrs W in 2015, 2016 and 
2017 to try to arrange a service and hadnt got a response. So she didnt think British Gas 
needed to refund any of the premiums Mr and Mrs W had paid. And she didnt think Mr and Mrs W were entitled to a new boiler under the terms of the policy. She felt the compensation 
British Gas had offered was fair and generous.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the investigator. They said they felt theyd been mis-sold a 
one-sided policy. They argued British Gas had shown them on its last visit that it did have 
the obsolete parts list, but they hadnt been told their boiler was obsolete or dangerous in 
2018. They said it had taken three weeks to disconnect the boiler, despite knowing it was 
unsafe. And that British Gas had been wrongly taking money for about five years. They told 
the investigator theyd no knowledge of the letters that had been sent. They said they didnt 
want British Gas to replace the boiler, they just wanted their premiums back. They were also 
unhappy with British Gas sales processes.
So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think British Gas 
needs to refund Mr and Mrs Ws premiums. Ill explain why.
Should British Gas have let Mr and Mrs W know their boiler was on a reduced service list?
Mr and Mrs Ws boiler looks to have been about 19 years old when it broke down. It seems 
the manufacturer stopped producing replacement parts for the boiler about six years ago.
British Gas says it generally wouldnt know a manufacturer has stopped making 
replacements or that parts have become obsolete until the time comes to order those parts. 
Theres no obligation on a manufacturer to let insurers and engineers know each time it 
discontinues making parts for a particular model. 
Ive looked carefully at the service history for Mr and Mrs Ws boiler. It looks like when the 
boiler was serviced in 2018, an insulation panel was replaced. And during one of the 
engineers visits in April 2019, a heat exchanger part was ordered. So it looks like some 
parts for Mr and Mrs Ws boiler were still available at this point. 
And Ive also seen a copy of the renewal documents British Gas sent to Mrs W in October 
2018. The agreement states:
Your boilers manufacturer stopped making your particular model of boiler a while ago. 
Theyre still making the most important parts for your boiler, some other parts are becoming 
difficult to source.
This means we may not be able to fix your boiler if it breaks down, but well do our best to 
keep it running for as long as possible.
So even if the engineer who carried out the service in April 2018 didnt tell Mr and Mrs W 
their boiler was on a reduced parts list, I think this documentation made it clear. The renewal 
letter was correctly addressed and Mr and Mrs W seem to have known what their monthly 
premium post renewal was. So I think its most likely this letter was received. Mr and Mrs W 
did renew the policy, despite the warning about the potential difficulty in getting parts for their 
boiler. And it doesnt appear, from what theyve told us about the fact they hadnt budgeted 
for a new boiler, that this letter had caused them to start saving for a new one.
This means I think even if the engineer in 2018 had told them that they were on a reduced 
parts list, I dont think they wouldve done anything differently. Did British Gas fail to act in line with the terms of its agreement?
From what I can see, letters were sent to Mrs W three times each year between 2014 and 
2018, inviting her to arrange an annual service. These letters seem to have been sent to the 
address British Gas had for her on its system. 
So while Mr and Mrs W say theyve no knowledge of the letters, it does seem they were 
correctly sent. And if the letters werent received, it was open to Mr and Mrs W to contact 
British Gas at any point during that period to arrange the annual service they were entitled to 
under their policy. I dont think it would be fair for me to tell British Gas to repay Mr and Mrs 
Ws premiums when it appears it tried to provide the services it was contracted to.
Are there any other reasons why British Gas should refund the premiums Mr and Mrs W 
have paid?
Mr and Mrs W now feel theyve been mis-sold the policy. But the financial business this 
complaint is about didn't sell their policy. So if Mr and Mrs W want to pursue this complaint, 
theyll need to get in touch with the seller.
I understand they also feel that they were left with an unsafe boiler for too long. This is a new 
point Mr and Mrs W have raised since the investigator looked into the complaint and British 
Gas hasnt had the chance to look into it. Theyll need to give British Gas the chance to 
investigate this issue before we can look into  it.
British Gas offered Mr and Mrs W £230 in compensation. I think this was a very fair offer. 
Turning back to the renewal documents, I can also see that the agreement says:
In the unlikely event we cant fix the boiler, you may be able to get a refund backdated to 
when you last had work done, or to when you renewed your agreement  whichever is most 
recent.
I think including the word may in this term means its discretionary and theres no obligation 
on British Gas to refund any premiums paid in these circumstances. However, it seems the 
premiums Mr and Mrs W paid after the policy renewed in November 2018 were more than 
covered by the £230 British Gas offered them. So I dont think it would be fair for me to direct 
British Gas to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
If theyd now like to accept the offer of compensation British Gas Insurance Limited made to 
them, its open to them to contact British Gas to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman