DRN-3857160
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) defaulted his personal loan.
What happened
Mr W drew a personal loan of £14,000 from Lloyds in December 2015. Monthly repayments 
were £351.87. These were made until 2020 when Mr Ws income was affected by the 
pandemic. In April 2020, Lloyds agreed a three-month payment holiday under the Covid-19 
support scheme. Interest was debited to the loan in line with the scheme. And no payments 
were made in May 2020, June 2020, and July 2020. 
Mr W called Lloyds in July 2020 and a one month hold was agreed. In September 2020,  a 
further three month hold was agreed. No interest was debited and no repayments were 
required during the holds. In December 2020, the payment hold came to an end and Lloyds 
wrote to Mr W to say the arrears were then £1,728.45 - five months payments. 
In December 2020, Lloyds agreed to a further hold on payments for 30 days. On 8 January 
2021, Lloyds sent to Mr W a Notice of Default with the balance £2,432.02. The arrears were 
£2,080.32 and the notice asked for this to be paid by 26 January 2021. No payments were 
made by that date and on 12 February 2021, Lloyds defaulted the loan and passed it to a 
debt collection agency. The balance was then £1,600  as two payments totalling £832.03 
were made on 29 January 2021 and 9 February 2021.
Mr W complained. He said the default was unfair. He said he had made all the payments 
without fail up until the pandemic. He said he had had a payment holiday; and the default 
had been applied without any warning. He also complained that the loan was originally 
agreed by Lloyds without sufficient checks, and the loan was made irresponsibly.
In October 2020, Lloyds said Mr W had spoken to them in July 2020  and said he didnt 
want a further payment holiday, as he didnt want any interest to accrue. Instead, he chose 
the option of a 30-day hold on payments. That meant no interest was applied to the loan, but 
it meant that arrears built up. In their response, Lloyds said that would mark the months of 
August 2020, September 2020, and October 2020 as payment holidays. The letter said that 
Mr W should contact Lloyds if he wanted to accept this offer. Mr W didnt accept Lloyds 
offer.
Following contact from Mr W about the default, Lloyds wrote to him in March 2021 and said 
the default was fair because of the arrears that had built up. They couldnt keep the loan on 
hold any longer and this had been explained to Mr W in letters to him. There had been some 
service issues when Mr W called and Lloyds apologised and paid compensation of £50.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our investigator explained that Mr Ws complaint about 
irresponsible lending (when the loan was agreed in December 2015) had been previously 
looked at by Lloyds and because that complaint hadnt been brought to us within six months 
of Lloyds final response, we couldnt look at that aspect. Mr W accepted that and we looked 
at his complaint about the default.
Our investigator said Lloyds acted reasonably. Mr W hadnt wanted a further payment 
holiday in July 2020 and opted for a series of payment holds  with no interest, but arrears 
built up. She said an income and expenditure form had been completed and this showed 
that Mr W couldnt afford the payments  so the holds were the right option for him. The last 
hold was applied on 9 December 2020; and when that expired a Notice of Default was sent 
to Mr W. This was because of the hold on payments agreed between August 2020 and 
January 2021  so there were then six months arrears. Because the arrears werent paid, 
Lloyds defaulted the loan.
Mr W asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ws complaint was that he wasnt warned or made aware that his loan was to 
be defaulted  so Ive looked at these aspects in particular.
In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
Lloyds, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including 
personal loans  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of 
two payment holidays each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. 
Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, nor treated as arrears 
- although interest would still be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms 
up to the end of October 2020. 
The intention was to provide short term support  usually in cases where customers would 
be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a customers situation was 
that they were in longer term difficulty, then payment holidays under this scheme werent 
normally agreed.
I can see that Mr W had a payment holiday for three months commencing in April 2020  so 
no payments were made for the months of May 2020, June 2020, and July 2020. Interest 
was applied to the loan in line with the scheme. But no arrears were applied, nor were credit 
reference agencies advised - as Mr W was on a payment holiday. 
On 23 July 2020, Mr W spoke to Lloyds and said he didnt want a further payment holiday  
because he didnt want to pay interest. Lloyds then placed a payment hold on the loan. This 
meant no payments were made, and neither was interest debited  but on the other hand, 
arrears started to build up. 
On 7 September 2020, Mr W contacted Lloyds again. I listened to the call. Mr W wanted to 
refinance the loan for a longer period with lower repayments. The call handler said that 
wasnt an option they could consider. Mr W said he had a short-term job starting in two 
weeks time, but a return to his main role wasnt clear due to the pandemic. An income & 
expenditure analysis was completed and this showed that Mr W was still struggling  as 
income was less than his expenditure  so no repayments could be afforded. Lloyds agreed 
to a further payment hold for three months, with no interest. After that, things could be 
reviewed again. 
I considered this  and it was a reasonable thing for Lloyds to do  Mr W wouldnt at that 
stage have qualified for a payment holiday  as he wasnt sure when he might return to his main work. And payment holidays were for short term help  where a definite return to work 
could be foreseen. The call handler said that arrears would build up because of the payment 
hold; and that Mr Ws credit file would be marked as in an arrangement. He said that at the 
end of the period a default might be applied. So,  I think the call handler did advise Mr W 
about the effect on his credit file and the potential for default. 
Lloyds wrote to him on 9 September 2020 (after the call) and the letter said the amount then 
due was £672.84 and this temporary plan will not clear the amount you are behind by and 
your normal monthly payments are still due each monthbeing behind with your payments 
can affect your credit scoreit may stay on your credit file for 6 yearsyou are still bound to 
make the monthly payments set out in your loan agreementwe may exercise our rights 
under your loan agreement if you cant make some of your future monthly payments. So, I 
think this was clear  that the arrears of missed payments were already £672.84 (two 
months payments) and that arrears would continue to build up  and the letter said there 
was a possibility of further action by Lloyds.
The payment hold came to an end in December 2020 and Lloyds wrote to Mr W there are 
arrears outstanding of £1,728.45 which are now due So, I think that was clear.
Lloyds then agreed a further 30 day hold on 9 December 2020 and a further letter was sent 
to Mr W  this said the arrears were then £1,728.45. The letter said this hold will not clear 
the amount you are behind by. Your normal monthly payments are still due each month.if 
you miss payments during this time, you will need to catch up with them. I also think this 
letter was clear about Mr Ws situation.
Lloyds sent a Notice of Default to Mr W on 8 January 2021. This said the arrears were then 
£2,080.32 and they needed to be paid by 26 January 2021. If they werent paid, the letter 
said we will end our agreement with youwe will update your credit file with a default. 
This information will stay on your file for six years. So  I consider that Lloyds did advise 
Mr W of the consequences of not paying off the arrears. 
I can see that Mr W did pay in two amounts totalling £832.03 - on 29 January 2021 and 9 
February 2021. But  these were made after the date stated in the default notice. And in any 
event, the amount paid in wasnt enough to pay off the arrears that had been quoted in the 
notice. 
I then considered Lloyds final response dated October 2020  as this said that they could  
mark the months of August 2020, September 2020, and October 2020 as payment holidays 
 if Mr W accepted the offer. This wouldve meant that those months wouldnt have counted 
as arrears  as a formal payment holiday wouldve been applied for those months. This 
would then have meant that the arrears shown in the Notice of Default wouldve been three 
months less than it was. We asked Lloyds about this and they told us that Mr W didnt accept 
this offer. If he had done so, the arrears wouldve been three months payments (and not six 
months). But even if Mr W had accepted the offer - I doubt if this wouldve meant that Lloyds 
wouldnt have defaulted his loan. I say that because he would still have been three months in 
arrears. 
And so, I think that Lloyds were clear in their communications with Mr W about the effect of 
the payment holds they applied. And  Lloyds solution of giving Mr W holds rather than 
payment holidays was the right thing to do  as Mr W wasnt sure when he might return to 
work, and he was in financial difficulty; and in the first place, it was Mr Ws decision to ask for 
a payment hold as this meant he wasnt charged any interest.
And so, having considered all the evidence, I am not going to ask Lloyds to do anymore 
here.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman