DRN-4264804
The complaint
Ms R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund £51,000 she lost to an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Ms R fell victim to an investment scam in April 2022 after she 
was contacted by a broker Terra Markets (the scammer). 
She was encouraged to invest, and accounts were opened with several cryptocurrency 
platforms and electronic money institutions such as Wise and Revolut, which she was told 
were needed for trading. Ms R then made several payments from her Lloyds account to her 
Santander, Wise and Revolut accounts between 14-20 May 2022 totalling £31,000. The 
funds sent to Ms Rs accounts were then transferred on again to cryptocurrency accounts in 
her name, before finally being sent to the scammer. 
As part of the scam, Ms R says that the brokers applied for loans on her behalf from several 
lenders, including a £20,000 loan with Lloyds, which she objected to, but said that cash then 
started being deposited into her accounts. Ms R started to cancel all the other loans that she 
received emails about, but the Lloyds loan was paid into her account and subsequently paid 
to the scammers. 
Ms R later realised she had been scammed and reported the fraud to Lloyds, but it refused 
to refund the money she lost and said she would also be liable to repay the loan she had 
taken out. Unhappy with this, Ms R referred the matter to out service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. She didnt think there was anything more 
Lloyds could have done to prevent the scam, as Ms R did not give honest answers when it 
called her on several occasions to discuss the payments. She also didnt think it was unfair 
for Ms R to be held liable for the loan given she knew it was being taken out in her name. 
Ms R disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Did Lloyds do enough to prevent Ms Rs loss to the scam?
It isnt in dispute that Ms R authorised the disputed faster payments she made from her 
Lloyds account as part of the scam (where her funds were subsequently transferred on 
again before reaching the scammer). The payments were requested using her legitimate 
security credentials provided by Lloyds, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow 
the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Lloyds should have done more to prevent Ms R from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character.
Its common ground that the payments Ms R made were considered unusual for her account 
as they prompted several interventions via phone call from Lloyds between 16  20 May 
2022. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in all the 
circumstances with its interventions. 
Having listened to the various call recordings, I dont think there was anything more Lloyds 
could have done to prevent the scam in this instance, as Ms R failed to provide honest 
answers to the questions she was being asked. Lloyds asked her on several occasions 
whether anyone had told her to lie to the bank, to which she said they hadnt. This was 
despite her having confirmed that the scammer stressed the need for her to lie to the bank if 
it asked her questions about the payments. When asked about the reason for the payments, 
Ms R also gave misleading answers, such as saying they were towards her fathers 
operation or for home improvements. She said she had researched the builders she was 
paying, and even confirmed to Lloyds that the payments were not being made as a result of 
an investment when it specifically asked her. 
I appreciate that Ms R wasnt forthcoming with the true nature of the payments because she 
had been coached by the scammer to lie to the bank. However, Im satisfied Lloyds asked 
the right sorts of questions and gave her enough opportunity to be honest and reveal what 
was happening, e.g. by asking her whether anyone had asked her to make the payments or 
was telling her to lie to the bank. It was based upon the answers she gave that Lloyds was 
satisfied the payments were not likely being made as part of a scam. And there was little to 
suggest that she was nervous or unsure about what she was saying. If she had answered 
the questions accurately and said she was in contact with a third-party broker who was 
telling her to lie, then I accept it would have been incumbent on the bank to maintain 
suspicion and warn her that she was being scammed. But seeing as Ms R was not 
forthcoming with these details, I dont think there was any failing on Lloyds part to probe any 
further.
So, overall, Im not persuaded Lloyds could have done anything more to have prevented 
Ms Rs loss in these circumstances, as it seems likely she would have continued to provide 
false information in order to make the payments. As such, I dont consider it would be fair 
and reasonable to hold the bank liable for failing to prevent the scam.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds could have done anything more to recover the funds 
after the fraud was reported. However, in this instance, the funds were transferred to 
accounts in Ms Rs own name, and we know they were swiftly transferred on again to the 
scammer. So, there would have been no prospect of Lloyds being able to recover the funds 
from the receiving accounts in these circumstances. 
Has Lloyds acted fairly by holding Ms R liable to repay the loan?
As part of the scam, Ms R says the fraudster took out several loans in her name on her 
device via remote access software. This included a £20,000 loan with Lloyds, and Ms R is 
unhappy that shes being held liable for this debt. Ive therefore considered whether its fair 
and reasonable for Lloyds to expect her to pay this back, or if it should write the debt off. Section 83 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 sets out that a person wont be held 
liable for a debt if it was taken out by another person who wasnt acting as their agent. So, 
Ive considered the extent to which Ms R was involved in the loan application with Lloyds, 
and whether she ought reasonably to have known that she had received the proceeds of a 
loan into her account. 
When the loan was being applied for, Ms R says screen was moving very quickly, and that 
she couldnt keep up with what the scammer was doing on her computer. However, she was 
nonetheless aware they were taking out a loan in her name, and says she also gave 
information for them to be able to complete the loan application, as she was concerned she 
would lose her investment profits if she didnt cooperate. I also note that she confirmed to 
Lloyds she had taken out a £20,000 loan during the call it had with her on 20 May 2022, 
which she said was for house renovations. She didnt tell the bank that she no longer wanted 
or needed this money, so Im satisfied she was aware of it. 
I understand Ms R thought she could cancel the loans later, which for some she was able to 
do so. But it appears she didnt stop the scammer from applying for the Lloyds loan on her 
behalf, so I dont think it could reasonably be said that she didnt consent to it. Therefore, Im 
not persuaded Section 83 of the CCA 1974 would have the effect of absolving Ms R of any 
liability for the debt in such circumstances, as the scammer can effectively be treated as 
having acted as her agent. 
Ms R says that she didnt receive any correspondence regarding the loan application or any 
cooling off period before receiving the funds, which I accept may have been the case. But as 
Ive set out above, Im satisfied she was aware of the loan, and even how much it was for, so 
she ought reasonably to have known that the £20,000 credit she received into her account 
were the proceeds of the loan, which she would need to pay back with interest. 
However, Ms R didnt take any action to return the funds to Lloyds and instead transferred 
the loan proceeds to her Revolut account, where they were subsequently lost to the 
scammer. Im also satisfied Lloyds undertook reasonable credit checks to ensure the loan 
was affordable for Ms R at the time it was applied for. As a result, I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to ask Lloyds to write off the debt in these circumstances, so I wont be 
asking it to take any further action in response to her complaint. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms R, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Lloyds have acted unfairly 
in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman