DRN-2841906
The complaint
Miss Gs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC is about delays in opening, and 
transferring money into, a stocks and shares ISA.
What happened
Miss G applied to open a stocks and shares ISA with Barclays Smart Investor in May 2020. 
Once the account was open, she wanted to transfer funds across from her existing Barclays 
cash ISA. 
Barclays wrote to Miss G on 24 May 2020 to say she needed to provide documents to 
confirm her identity and address before the ISA could be opened. Miss G provided some 
documents to Barclays and called them in May, July and September 2020 to discuss her 
application. She visited a branch on 28 September and her ISA was opened. Miss G then 
tried to transfer funds from her cash ISA and spoke to Barclays a number of times about 
that. The transfer was completed on 21 December.
Miss G complains that the whole process took far too long due to Barclays putting obstacles 
in her way. She says: 
It shouldnt have been necessary for Barclays to ask her for proof of her identity and 
address as she was an existing customer.
She provided the three pieces of information Barclays asked for, but they must have 
lost one of them and that caused the delay. Barclays themselves said something had 
fallen between the cracks.
Once the ISA had been opened Barclays caused unnecessary delay in transferring 
money from her cash ISA.
The delays have cost her over £2,000 because of the performance of the market 
over the period she was waiting to invest.
Barclays say Miss G didnt initially provide all three pieces of information she was asked for 
and they explained this to her when she chased her application in July. They say Miss G left 
long periods of time between contacting them and providing the documents they needed and 
so they are not responsible for the delays. They accept that their adviser gave Miss G some 
inaccurate information during one call in July, but this was quickly rectified. They offered 
Miss G £50 in compensation for that mistake. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt think Barclays needed to do 
anything more. Miss G disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Opening the ISA
Barclays letter of 24 May 2020 asked Miss G to send them one identity document and two 
proof of address documents. Miss G thinks it was unreasonable for Barclays to ask for the 
documents as she was an existing customer and her intention was simply to transfer her 
funds from a cash ISA to a new stocks and shares ISA. She says her father and brother 
were able to open an ISA without providing similar information.
There are extensive requirements on banks to make sure they have suitable systems in 
place to identify their customers. It is a matter for individual banks to decide precisely how 
they will comply with those requirements. But banks will routinely check that information 
about their customers is up to date and that might mean providing proof of address or 
updated identification documents.  
Barclays letter to Miss G explained that before opening her ISA they were required to 
update her customer details. They said it was something they needed to do at least every 
three years to ensure they had the most up to date information. As Ive explained, that is 
something banks will routinely do, and I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to ask 
Miss G to provide the documents they requested before opening her ISA. I think Barclays 
explained the position clearly both in their letter and when Miss G called them on 27 May to 
query why she was being asked to provide the information. 
The fact that other members of Miss Gs family werent asked for similar information at the 
same time doesnt change my findings. I dont think Barclays did anything wrong by asking 
Miss G for the information they did.
Miss G says she posted three documents to Barclays  her passport, her driving licence and 
an ISA statement from another business. She says she received them back in the post and 
assumed Barclays would go ahead and open her account. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show when Miss G sent the documents or when Barclays 
received them. But Barclays have provided a copy of their contact history with Miss G which 
shows when she called to discuss her application.
After Miss G had called Barclays on 27 May, the next contact appears to have been on 
8 July. Miss G chased up her application using Barclays online messaging service. 
The adviser agreed to contact the relevant team and sent a message to Miss G the following 
day to say she had only provided one proof of address and needed to send another.
Ive not seen evidence that Miss G sent anything more to Barclays following that message. 
She next called Barclays on 17 September and Barclays have provided recordings of the 
two calls that took place on that day.
In the first call, the adviser initially said that Miss Gs application might have fallen through 
the net and that she would contact the account opening team to push it through. But the 
adviser then checked the notes and saw that Miss G had been sent a message on 9 July 
asking her to send a second proof of address. The adviser suggested that it might be best 
for Miss G to go to a local branch with her documents and Miss G agreed to do that. 
Although Miss G called back later the same day to say she wanted the ISA to be opened 
immediately, the adviser said that wasnt possible and Miss G again agreed to go to a 
branch. Miss G visited a branch on 28 September and her account was opened.
It took over four months for Miss Gs ISA to be opened and I appreciate that must have been 
very frustrating for her. But in deciding this complaint, I need to look at whether Barclays did 
anything wrong.Its clear that Miss G sent some documents to Barclays as they have a record of receiving 
one identity document and one proof of address. Its possible that Miss G also included a 
second proof of address and Barclays failed to record it. But on balance, I think its most 
likely that Miss G sent just one proof of address, which wasnt enough for her account to be 
opened. 
Barclays explained clearly to Miss G on 9 July and 17 September that she needed to provide 
another proof of address. She didnt do so until she visited a branch on 28 September, and I 
dont think I can fairly hold Barclays responsible for that delay. 
I have considered whether Barclays should have done more to help Miss G progress her 
application more quickly. But overall, I dont think Ive seen enough evidence to say Barclays 
were responsible for causing avoidable delay. And once Miss G had provided all the relevant 
documents, her account was opened promptly. So, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to hold Barclays responsible for any losses Miss G says shes incurred 
because her ISA wasnt opened sooner.
Miss G says that Barclays have admitted her documents fell between the cracks. As Ive 
noted, their adviser did initially suggest that during the call on 17 September but corrected 
the position once she had looked at the records. Barclays have offered Miss G £50 in 
compensation for giving her wrong information during that call and I think thats reasonable.    
 
ISA transfer
Miss G also complains that once her investment ISA was opened, Barclays caused delay in 
transferring funds across from her cash ISA. Ive looked at what Miss G has said and at the 
notes Barclays have provided of their contact with Miss G about this.
Miss Gs ISA was opened on 28 September. It appears she tried to arrange the transfer 
online later that day and the following day, but her requests were rejected. Barclays records 
show that on 29 September Miss G had an online chat discussion with an adviser who tried 
to help her with the transfer. When Miss G didnt respond on the chat, the adviser sent 
Miss G a transfer form.   
Miss G called Barclays on 19 October to say she had been unable to make the transfer. 
The adviser explained that Miss G hadnt specified which tax years allowance was being 
used and the transfer couldnt go ahead without that information. Miss G wasnt sure if she 
had contributed to her cash ISA in the current tax year and so she was advised to contact 
the cash ISA team to check. 
Miss G called Barclays again on 21 October to make her complaint about how long the 
whole process had taken. In their response on 13 November, Barclays explained again why 
her transfer request had been rejected and said she could call their customer service team if 
she needed further assistance in completing the transfer.
Miss G rejected Barclays response to her complaint and said they should call her to resolve 
the problems with the transfer. Barclays called Miss G on 17 December and spoke to both 
her and her father. They confirmed the money being transferred would be from previous tax 
years, which meant the transfer could go ahead. I understand the transfer was completed on 
21 December. 
I think Barclays advisers tried to help Miss G both in the online chat on 29 September and 
by explaining what information she needed to provide when she called on 19 October. While it must have been frustrating for Miss G, Barclays were unable to complete the 
transfer until she had given them the information they requested.
I appreciate that Miss G feels Barclays should have done more to help her, and I have 
thought about that. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly say that 
Barclays caused avoidable delays in the transfer process. 
Id like to reassure Miss G that Ive considered everything shes said. I realise this will be a 
disappointing decision for her, but I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I consider Barclays Bank UK PLCs 
offer to pay Miss G £50 in compensation to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman