DRN-2293309
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy American Express Payment Services Limited (American Express) blocked 
and closed his credit card account.
What happened
In December 2019, American Express conducted a review of Mr Ws account. Following this 
review, it took the decision to close it and sent Mr W notification of this on 16 December 
2019. In the notification American Express gave Mr W two months notice of the closure but 
said the card would be blocked during this time. 
Mr W is unhappy with American Express closing his account, blocking it during the notice 
period, and not giving him a reason for its decision. He explained that hes had the credit 
card for over 14 years and has been a loyal customer making his way up to the highest 
account tier. He and his wife, who was an additional card holder, had come to rely on the 
card and the closure caused financial difficulties for them. 
American Express responded to Mr Ws complaint explaining that it had complied with 
internal and external regulations when closing the account and it didnt have to give a reason 
for its decision. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
concluded that although American Express had given two months notice of the closure, by 
blocking the card in the meantime, it had the same effect as closing the account 
immediately. However, he concluded that American Express was entitled to close the 
account immediately under the terms and conditions of the account. He also concluded that 
American Express wasnt obliged to tell Mr W why it had closed the account. 
Mr W remained unhappy. He reiterated that hes had a strong relationship with American 
Express over the years and had always been able to sort out any issue that had occurred. 
He said American Express knew he was financially reliant on the credit card account and its 
actions left him in a bad situation without discussing it with him first. 
Because Mr W disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
American Express has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when 
providing account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at 
account opening stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts 
and the activity taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts 
being closed.  If American Express didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
Having reviewed whats happened, Im satisfied American Express was entitled to close
Mr Ws account and did so in in line with the account terms and relevant regulations. 
American Express has the discretion to offer accounts to who it wishes, just as Mr W can 
choose who to bank with.
Im in agreement with the investigator that American Express effectively closed the account 
immediately by blocking the card during the notice period. Under the terms and conditions, 
American Express can close an account immediately in certain circumstances. And, having 
looked at the information it relied on, I dont think it acted unreasonably or made an error in 
closing Mr Ws account immediately. 
American Express wasnt obliged to tell Mr W the reason for the review or closure and it
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to. And whilst I understand Mr W believes 
American Express shouldve discussed matters with him first - as had happened in the past - 
it didnt have to do this. 
So, whilst appreciate the closure caused Mr W a great deal of distress and inconvenience, I 
cant say American Express has treated him unfairly, or made an error in closing his 
account. It therefore follows that I wont be asking it to reinstate the account or pay any 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against American Express Payment 
Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman