DRN-3924015
The complaint
In summary, Mr Y complains that Covea Insurance Plc incorrectly registered a fault claim 
against him. He disputes liability and is concerned he has lost his no claims bonus (NCB), 
and that his insurance premiums have increased.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr Y was sent a claim form in respect of an incident he was told he had been 
involved in with his car. An assessor was sent by Covea to inspect the damage caused to 
his car. Mr Y said he was told by the assessor that no damage to his car could be seen, and 
that assessment would be included in the report.
Mr Y said he heard nothing further from Covea until he received his insurance renewal 
quote. His premiums had increased by £240. His NCB had also been reduced.
Mr Y said he hadnt been given any details of the incident, but he did think he may have 
touched a car when parking on a different date from that provided by Covea. 
In response to Mr Ys concerns, Coveas representative explained why it believed it had 
dealt with the claim correctly and why it was appropriate to record it as a fault incident. There 
had been witnesses to the incident, and it had obtained an engineers report. As a fault claim 
had been recorded, his NCB had been reduced.  
Mr Ys complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She asked Covea for further 
information and for clarification as to the date the incident occurred. It explained the third-
party had originally pursued the claim through an accident management company who had 
provided the original date. When the third-party decided to go through their own insurer, they 
provided the correct date.  
The investigator wrote to Mr Y on several occasions explaining why his complaint wasnt 
being upheld. Mr Y explained why he didnt agree with the investigators assessment. As no 
agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my findings and conclusions in this case, I have focussed on the issues and 
evidence that I think are key for me to decide this case. However, I want to reassure Mr Y 
and Covea that I have carefully thought about everything they have said and provided me 
with.
The defending or settling a claim information in the general conditions of Mr Ys policy 
document, provided Covea with the authority to take over, defend or settle any claim. But in 
doing so it still had to exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way. 
In considering the issue of liability, its not for me to determine who was responsible for the 
accident. That is a matter for the courts to decide. But I can consider if Covea acted fairly in 
how it investigated the issue of liability and whether it reached a reasonable decision in 
respect of this, based on the available evidence. 
Liability
Looking at the available evidence, I dont think it was unreasonable of Covea to have dealt 
with the issue of liability in the way that it did. I say this because there appears to have been 
witnesses to the incident who saw Mr Y bump his car into the third-party car. And Covea was 
provided with photos taken by a witness to the incident, that showed damage to Mr Ys car 
and the third-party car. 
I understand Mr Y disputes the authenticity of the photos and has pointed to differences to 
the car park surface, and he disagrees that he was in the car park on the date the incident 
was alleged to have happened. Ive considered the photos and other information hes 
provided very carefully.  
I accept that there appears to have been some initial confusion from the information 
originally provided by the third-partys insurer as to what date the incident occurred on. But 
the incorrect date was explained to Covea. And Mr Y has said that he did touch another car 
when parking on the same corrected date the incident occurred on. So, despite the initial 
confusion, I think given the corroboration provided by Mr Y which is recorded in the copy of 
the diary entry he has provided for the day the incident happened, Im not persuaded that the 
damage to the third party car happened on a different date as Mr Y thinks it did.  
In reaching that conclusion Ive also been persuaded by the assessors report that Covea 
provided. The assessor concluded the elements of damage consistency indicated there had 
been contact between Mr Ys car and the third-party car. In his opinion, the damage to the 
third-party vehicle was likely be the result of contact from the nearside of Mr Ys car. 
I think taking into account the evidence Covea had that Ive summarised, it may well have 
thought it would be difficult to defend the claim on a no-fault basis. And even if the claim had 
been settled on a split liability basis, I think its likely that this could still have affected Mr Ys 
insurance premiums and his NCB. 
Mr Ys policy document does give examples of how an NCB could be affected in the event of 
a claim. And it has also explained that it takes into account a maximum number of years in 
respect of NCB. And in my experience that isnt an unusual approach for an insurer to take 
in respect of NCB.
As Ive said, Im not making any findings on liability, that isnt my role. But given what 
evidence is available to me, I dont think based on the information Covea had, that it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in making the decision it did in respect of the issue of liability.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Simon DibbleOmbudsman