DRN-3631623
The complaint
Mr C complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax tried to take a very large direct debit 
when it didnt need to because hed already paid off his credit card balance.
What happened
Mr C has a Halifax credit card. He had an arrangement with the bank that, each month, it 
would take the full balance he owed on the card, from his bank account at another bank, via 
direct debit.
In January 2022 Mr C used his credit card to book a hotel in Madeira for £4,100.09 (after 
conversion from euros). Initially the payment was declined by Halifax but Mr C was later able 
to make it successfully. Mr C complained about the declined payment but he says this is not 
the subject of this complaint, which relates to a later event.
Mr C had arranged a balance transfer at 0% interest with another credit card provider, so he 
didnt need to pay interest on the payment to the hotel. The new credit card provider sent 
Halifax a payment of £4,515.52. This appeared on the account on Friday 11 February 2022, 
repaying the balance. 
On Monday 14 February 2022 Mr C was surprised to be notified by his other bank that he 
was going overdrawn due to Halifax trying to collect a direct debit of £4,158.27. Mr C 
contacted his other bank and they were able to put a stop to the payment. Mr C moved 
£4,000 from a savings account to cover his temporarily overdrawn balance and he says he 
was considerably stressed by what had happened. He considered that what Halifax had 
done was akin to theft  it had tried to take money from his bank account that he didnt owe. 
Mr C complained about what had happened but Halifax didnt agree that it had done 
anything wrong. In a final response dated 24 February 2022, the bank acknowledged it had 
received the payment of £4,515.52 on 11 February 2022, but noted Mr Cs direct debit had 
been due for collection one working day later on 14 February 2022 and was unlikely to be 
cancelled in time. Halifax also said that on Mr Cs credit card statement it had said that if he 
made additional payments this wouldnt prevent his direct debit from going out.
Mr C was dissatisfied with this response and referred the matter to this service for an 
independent assessment. One of our investigations looked into the complaint. He didnt think 
it should be upheld. I could summarise his reasons as follows:
The processing of a direct debit can take place several days before the payment is 
actually due, and its an automated process. 
Halifax had already started processing the direct debit payment at the time the 
balance transfer paid off the credit card balance, and they wouldnt have been able to 
stop this.
The credit card statement warned this could happen, and the credit card terms and 
conditions say that even where an additional payment was made, the bank would still 
try to take the direct debit.
Mr C asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He didnt deny that the 
terms and conditions said what they said, but he considered they operated in an unfair way. 
He regarded a payment system which allowed for this kind of thing to happen as being out of 
date in an age where payments could be sent instantly.   
While Mr Cs case was waiting to be reviewed by an ombudsman, he wrote in to make some 
further points around the balance transfer. He said he had no control over when the balance 
transfer money was paid onto his credit card, but that he understood the receiving credit 
card provider needed to request the money from the new credit card provider. He suggested 
Halifax may have deliberately held up his balance transfer so it could benefit from having, 
however temporarily, the money from his regular direct debit and the money from the 
balance transfer. 
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Direct debit is one of the most common ways for people in this country to pay their regular 
obligations such as credit cards, mortgages, council tax and energy bills. It gives people 
peace of mind that their payments will be collected automatically by the organisation they 
owe money to, rather than them having to remember to make the payments themselves.
The direct debit system is operated by Bacs, which is itself operated by Pay.UK, the 
organisation which runs the UKs interbank payment systems. The rules of the direct debit 
scheme, including processing timeframes, are produced by Bacs and have to be followed by 
organisations collecting payments (Halifax in this case) and organisations honouring 
payments (Mr Cs other bank in this case). 
According to the rules, direct debits are collected on a three (working) day cycle:
Day 1: The collecting organisation sends the details of the payments to be made to 
Bacs.
Day 2: Bacs processes the data.
Day 3: The payments debit and debit the respective accounts.
Mr Cs credit card payment was due on Monday 14 February 2022. So Halifax would have 
sent the details of the payment which needed to be made to Bacs on Thursday 
10 February 2022, before the balance transfer had paid off Mr Cs credit card balance. 
This means Halifax could not have stopped the payment from being collected at the point the 
balance transfer hit Mr Cs credit card. The request had already been sent and was being 
processed. I take Mr Cs point that it has the appearance of being an old-fashioned system, 
but the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt to make decisions on how the UKs 
payment infrastructure should operate, its to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of individual cases. Halifax are bound by how direct debits work. I dont find 
that the bank acted unfairly or unreasonably in not doing something that it was impossible for 
it to do. However, it may give Mr C some comfort to know that there are plans to modernise the UKs 
payment systems under what is called the New Payments Architecture. I understand this 
process is taking some time. If Mr C feels strongly that how the system works is inadequate 
then he may wish to air the matter with Pay.UK or the Payment Systems Regulator.
Ive considered whether Halifax gave Mr C adequate warning that something like this might 
happen. Our investigator said that the credit card statements and terms and conditions noted 
that one-off payments wouldnt necessarily prevent the collection of the regular direct debit. I 
agree these documents warned that one-off payments might not prevent the regular direct 
debit from being taken. The January statement also stated that a payment of £4,158.27 
would be collected on 14 February 2022. Overall, I think the information provided by Halifax 
was enough to show that it intended to collect a specific amount on a specific date, and that 
making a payment before that date wouldnt necessarily prevent it from being collected.
I appreciate that Mr C wouldnt necessarily have much control over when exactly the balance 
transfer from his new credit card provider would arrive. But it is not my understanding that 
the old credit card provider requests the money from the new one. My understanding is that 
the usual practice is that the new provider sends the funds to the details it is given during the 
process of arranging the balance transfer. The version of the general terms and conditions 
for Mr Cs new credit card provider which is available online suggests that this is the case.
In any event, if Mr C thinks something went wrong with the balance transfer  such as a 
delay caused by either Halifax or the new credit card provider  and this is something he 
wishes to complain about, then he would need to raise a new complaint with the entity he 
thinks is responsible and give them an opportunity to investigate and respond. This is 
because he has not raised this as an issue previously.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman