DRN-4284725
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly 
declined a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs P took out a pet insurance policy for her dog with LV in March 2019. 
In 2022 Mrs P made a claim for the removal of a lipoma (benign tumour) from her dogs right 
chest wall.
LV declined the claim on the ground that the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions. It 
said the dogs clinical history showed that she had had a lipoma on a different part of her 
chest in 2017 before the policy started.
Mrs P provided evidence from her vet that the two lipomas were on different parts of the 
chest and only the later lipoma was removed. LV didnt change its decision. It said that 
according to the policy terms if a condition occurs or recurs in a different part of the body at a 
later date, the start of the treatment will be taken as the date the pet first visited a vet for the 
condition. 
When Mrs P called LV to make the claim, she told them that her address had changed two 
years previously. She was told that her premium would increase by over £70 a year. LV said 
that the change in address had led to an increase in the premium.
In March 2023 LV told Mrs P that the underwriter and provider of the insurance policy had 
changed. Mrs P wasnt happy with that and thought that was the reason for her claim being 
declined as she always been very happy with LV up to that point.
Mrs P cancelled the policy. She thought LV had only allowed her to do that in order to avoid 
paying her claim.
Mrs P brought a complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision upholding her 
complaint in part. 
In my provisional findings I noted that Mrs Ps policy, like many other pet policies, doesnt 
cover pre-existing conditions. There is an exclusion in the policy for the cost of any treatment 
for a pre-existing condition. A pre-existing definition is defined as:
Any illness, injury, behavioural problem or vicious tendency, or any signs of illness, 
injury, behavioural problem or vicious tendency that occurred or existed in any form before 
the start date of the policy; and
Any illness, injury, behavioural problem that was previously covered by a policy with us 
and had reached either the monetary limit or time limit that applied to that condition; and
Any illness, injury or behavioural problems or any signs of illness or behavioural problems 
that occur within the waiting period.
The policy also set out the position with regard to related, recurring, ongoing and bilateral 
conditions. It said:
Related illnesses and/or injuries include conditions that are likely to be recurring, ongoing 
or affect a part of the body that forms a pair eg knees, feet, shoulders, eyes, ears. 
A related illness that affects more than one part of the body will be treated as one condition. 
Related conditions are treated as one condition and this includes payment of the veterinary 
fees excess. This is the way the policy works rather than it necessarily being a scientific fact, 
so your vet may state that conditions are not technically related but your policy terms 
requires us to treat them in this way.
So I provisionally thought it was clear that the policy terms provided no cover in Mrs Ps 
situation based on a strict interpretation of them. I said I needed to consider whether LV had 
acted fairly in relying on this exclusion to decline the claim. 
Our general approach to related conditions is that unless there is evidence that establishes 
the first condition led to the second condition or the second condition was noted as likely to 
happen at some point in the future at the time of the first condition being diagnosed, they 
should be treated as two independent conditions. 
The first mass/lipoma described by Mrs Ps vet as smaller, insignificant was first noticed by 
a vet in February 2017 and didnt have to be removed. The later and larger lipoma was 
noted in February 2021 which is after the policy started. 
In my opinion it was unreasonable for LV to link these two separate lipoma incidents. I said I 
hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that Mrs Ps dog has a predisposition to lipomas or that 
there was an underlying causal link between them. 
I said in the absence of persuasive evidence of such a connection, I was minded to uphold 
Mrs Ps complaint about the decline of her claim.
With regard to the complaint about the increase in premium, insurers consider a variety of 
factors when calculating the premium for a policy. The premium can vary depending on the 
insurer, the individual circumstances of the policyholder and in particular the risks the insurer 
is being asked to cover. Each insurer is entitled to take its own view on how to assess the 
relevant risks and set the premium. 
In this case LV explained that Mrs Ps address is a rating factor and it took into account vets 
fees and the number of claims in that postcode area to calculate the new premium. In my 
opinion LV has been able to explain satisfactorily why Mrs Ps premium increased after her 
move and it treated her fairly and consistently in line with its general approach to pricing.
Although the underwriter of the policy changed with effect from 13 March 2023, LV said it 
would continue to handle claims made under the policy. In any event Mrs Ps claim was 
decided before the underwriter changed. So I wasnt persuaded the change had impacted 
the way LV dealt with the claim.
Under the terms of the policy Mrs P was entitled to cancel it. LV was obliged to allow her to 
do this. So I wasnt persuaded it only did so because she had an ongoing claim.
In response LV made the following points:
Its standard in pet insurance policies to exclude pre-existing conditions.
It hadnt applied the exclusion strictly but rather as it would for any other customer in the 
same situation.Regardless of whether one lipoma was caused by the other, they had the same clinical 
diagnosis and so should be classed as one condition.
They referred to other decisions where I had found it reasonable for the claim to be 
declined in similar circumstances.
Mrs P referred me to a letter from her vet which stated that the lipoma which was the subject 
of this claim was completely unrelated to any previously and it is our professional opinion 
that this should not be classed as a pre-existing condition by the insurance company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that it is standard in pet insurance policies to exclude pre-existing conditions. I also 
dont doubt that LV has treated Mrs P in the same way that it would any other customer in 
the same situation although that doesnt necessarily mean its treatment was fair. Similarly, I 
agree that the lipoma in 2017 and the one removed in 2022 had the same clinical diagnosis, 
that is that they were non-cancerous fatty lumps known as lipomas.
Whether its fair for an insurer to apply the exclusion in one case and not another is not a 
precise science. There are a number of factors which I take into account and each case is 
decided on its own facts. One of the points I take into consideration is the period of time that 
has elapsed between the two conditions presenting- in this case it was a relatively long time 
of about four years. Another is how the conditions were treated. In this case the first lipoma 
doesnt appear to have caused any problem for the dog and was only noticed during a 
routine health check. The vet didnt recommend it be removed as was the case with the later 
one.
Ive taken everything LV has said into account. However I find it hard to disagree with the 
opinion of Mrs Ps vet who has said there was no connection between the lipoma found in 
2017 and the removal of the one that was claimed for.
So overall I do not think it would be fair for LV to rely on the exclusion to refuse the claim in 
the particular circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require London Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited to settle Mrs Ps claim subject to the other terms and conditions of the 
policy and to pay interest on any amount paid to her at the simple rate of 8% from the date 
her claim was made until payment.
If London Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so that she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman