DRN-3091850
The complaint
Ms W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) continued charging her excessive 
amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.  
What happened
 Ms W complained to Lloyds after it continued charging her excessive fees to her account 
when she was struggling financially.  Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. And as Ms W was 
dis-satisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Ms Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Lloyds 
ought to have realised that Ms W was experiencing financial difficulty by December 2017 
and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Lloyds didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed 
Ms Ws overdraft in December 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Ms W 
was in no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Ms W was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained 
a credit balance for an extended period of time. Lloydss own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So I think that Ms Ws overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that 
Ms W wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. 
Ms Ws statements also show that she had a number of returned direct debits or paid item 
fees, as well as exceeding her overdraft limit. In these circumstances, it ought to have been 
apparent that Ms W was at a significant risk of experiencing financial difficulty and so should 
have been treated with forbearance rather than having had even more interest, fees and 
charges added to her overdraft. As Lloyds didnt react to Ms Ws overdraft usage and 
instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Ms W ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds didnt 
treat Ms W fairly and she lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right. 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ws complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Ws current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the renewal in December 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Ms W to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Ws credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in December 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms W along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Ms Ws credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ws complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman