DRN-3363142
The complaint
Mr L complains Revolut Ltd unfairly restricted his account. He also says they are responsible
for the fees charged by his credit card provider when he used his credit card to top up his
account. He wants those fees refunded and £500 compensation for the inconvenience he
experienced.
What happened
Mr L held a Revolut account. In December 2020 Revolut placed restrictions on his account
to carry out a review. They wanted to know more about his source of funds and
income.
Mr L provided some information, although at one point he made a spelling mistake and sent
information to an incorrect email address. Revolut werent satisfied that the initial
information they received demonstrated his full income. Mr L refused to
provide further information and asked for his account to be closed. Revolut closed his
account and gave him 30 days to transfer out his funds.
During his interactions with Revolut, Mr L expressed his unhappiness about interest his 
credit card provider charged when he used his credit card to top up his Revolut account. His 
credit card provider categorised the top ups as cash transactions for which he holds Revolut
responsible.
While Mr Ls complaint has been with our service, Revolut offered £20 to resolve his
complaint without admitting liability. Mr L rejected the offer, so our investigator went on
to consider the merits of his complaint. They decided not to uphold the complaint and
concluded:
Revolut were able to place restrictions on Mr Ls account to carry out a review in line 
with their regulatory and legal responsibilities. Revolut hadnt acted unfairly even if Mr 
L was caused financial loss, frustration, and inconvenience.
Mr L sent some of the information Revolut asked for to an incorrectly spelt email 
address, which explained why they didnt receive those documents at the time.
Revolut were able to close his account. There are specific terms which apply to 
immediate account closure, and Revolut had fairly applied them.
Revolut werent responsible for the interest Mr Ls credit card provider charged him.
Mr L disagreed with the outcome our investigator reached. He asked for a final decision from
an ombudsman, so his complaint was given to me to decide. He says his credit card provider
charged interest differently because of changes Revolut made to how top up payments using 
credit cards were processed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Revolut have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account
is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to protect persons from
financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
Revolut will review accounts to comply with their responsibilities. And, its common industry
practice for firms to restrict access to accounts to conduct a review - doing so helps prevent
potential financial loss or harm. Im satisfied Revolut acted reasonably by blocking Mr Ls
account and they didnt need to allow him to access funds in his account.
Revolut wanted sufficient proof of Mr Ls income and they asked him for specific
documentation. I see Mr L sent some of this information to an incorrectly spelt email
address. Ultimately Revolut werent satisfied the information he provided demonstrated the
full source of his income. When they asked him for more information he refused to provide it
and asked for his account to be closed and to be able to move his funds elsewhere. I find
Revolut were entitled to ask for the information as part of their legal and regulatory
responsibilities to verify the source of their customers funds.
Revolut closed Mr Ls account with immediate effect. I find their decision was reasonable
because Mr L wanted to close his account following Revoluts requests for information. And,
I find the wider circumstances of this complaint demonstrate Revolut reasonably applied the
terms which allow them to close an account straight away.
Ultimately its for each credit card provider to decide what they charge for certain types of
payments and how they categorise them according to their fee structure. Mr Ls credit card
provider set its own fee structure and terms and conditions. So, I am not holding Revolut
liable for the fees they charged him, although I am aware Revolut say their card scheme
operator required them to suddenly change their merchant category code for top ups made
by credit card.
I also find that Revolut not charging a fee for credit card top ups is a wholly different matter
to fees charged by a third party. It would be unreasonable to conclude that this was a
promise that Mr L wouldnt incur charges on his third-party credit card account or that his
credit card provider wouldnt change how it categorised certain payments.
I do not require Revolut to pay Mr L any offer, but if Revolut still want to offer him £20 and Mr 
L wishes to accept it that is a matter for them to decide outside of our services involvement.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint for the reasons I have given.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman