DRN-2225292
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money made 
mistakes when it switched its bank account causing inconvenience and disruption.
What happened
K decided it wanted to switch its account from another bank and contacted Clydesdale. The 
director says he told Clydesdale that it was essential that K had an overdraft and savings 
account. He completed the application forms for the switch only as sent by Clydesdale. He 
found out on 27 December 2019 that a switch date had been set for 3 January 2020. He 
contacted Clydesdale and was told he could not postpone the switch and so terminated it. 
There were problems with Ks direct debits and two charges for unpaid items applied by 
Clydesdale. And K had to contact other organisations to say that its bank details had not 
changed. 
Clydesdale accepted it had provided poor service. It told K in a final response of 24 January 
2020 that its direct debits and standing order payments were still active on its old bank 
account. It refunded the charges and it offered to pay K £300 but which it rejected.
Our investigator did not recommend that Clydesdale do anything further. She said that she 
did not think K would have switched its account unless an overdraft had been agreed. She 
didnt think it reasonable that K receive compensation for not receiving a switching incentive. 
Clydesdale had done what it could to put things right and the compensation offered was 
reasonable. Clydesdale confirmed that the account was now closed.
K did not agree. It did not think that the extra work involved and disruption to its relationship 
with the businesses that provided it with services had been reflected. Clydesdale had acted 
inefficiently and did not seem to care about the impact. It had still been contacting K about 
an account that should never have been opened in the first place.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to this complaint on 17 September 2020 and I set out below 
what I said.
Having read the detailed comments that the director of K has made about what happened I 
was satisfied that:
- He made clear that the account switch for K should not take place unless 
arrangements for an overdraft and its substantial deposits had been put in place.
- K did not agree to the switch date proposed which was supposed to happen in line 
with the terms and conditions.
- The problems that resulted are fairly the responsibility of Clydesdale.
- Although Clydesdale referred to a payment being returned in the final response K 
has shown evidence of a wider impact which I was going to be taking into account.
K has shown that two direct debit payments were returned due to lack of funds. This resulted 
in a £16 charge for each. The director explains that for more than one payee new mandates 
had to be manually set up. Hes also shown that a payment for £426.57 was returned on 29 
January 2020 with the message account closed. And that on 3 February 2020 he had 
contact from a different payee who had been told the mandate was cancelled. He also sets 
out that on 8 January 2020 funds of just under £15,000 were still directed to the account at 
Clydesdale and not returned to the old bank until the next day. The director explains the time 
he spent for K contacting Clydesdale about all these matters. And that until recently K has 
had contact from Clydesdale about an account that should never have been opened.
While there is a clear process for switching accounts and set timescales, unfortunately that 
doesnt apply if the switch is cancelled as it was here. So, I thought that errors with direct 
debits resulted even though in the final response letter of 24 January 2020 K was given 
assurances that these were still all active at the old bank due to the business account 
switch not being fully completed.
I needed to think about the appropriate level of compensation for these issues. I took into 
account that K is a separate entity that cant suffer distress. So, I couldnt consider any 
personal impact for the director. I also agreed with our investigator that its not reasonable to 
pay an incentive fee as the switch did not happen. I did though consider that there was time 
spent by K on resolving these problems and inconvenience and disruption caused especially 
in its relationships with other businesses and which are important in its industry. Id taken 
into account our published guidelines about compensation. I didnt consider £300 was 
sufficient. In my judgement £500 is fair compensation although I knew that was still less that 
K has indicated it wanted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale said that it accepted my decision and would pay the compensation.
The director of K said he welcomed the decision to uphold the complaint. He made some 
further points. While he accepted that K could not suffer distress he said that the work to 
rectify things fell on him as the sole director and employee. And that he was diverted from 
important work. There is still fall out from this error and his professional body for example 
last week wrote to advise that the annual direct debit had been returned as cancelled. This 
caused further investigation and then the issue of a cheque. It was difficult to identify things 
in a list that werent there.
Putting things right
Im sorry to hear about the ongoing problems especially with annual direct debits like this. I 
can appreciate why the director feels professionally embarrassed about this. Whilst I cant as 
I said take into account the impact on him I did think about the inconvenience to K of having 
to set up these payments. We dont tend to award compensation for units of time. So, Ive 
considered the overall situation including the disruption caused. And as a result, Ive not 
apportioned amounts for each element of the complaint. Having thought again about 
everything that has been said I remain of the view that total compensation of £500 is the 
appropriate amount here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money to pay K £500.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman