DRN-2834627
The complaint
Mr P complains that Society of Lloyds (SoL), unfairly declined a claim he made on a marine
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P holds a marine insurance property for his boat which is underwritten by SoL. He made
a claim on the policy for damage to the engines.
Where I refer to SoL in this decision, it includes its agents and representatives.
After carrying out enquiries, SoL declined cover for the claim. It said that the engines had
been damaged due to the ingress of sea water into the vessel which occurred because an
engine hose failed. It said this failure was due to gradual deterioration of the hose, which
was excluded from cover on the policy. It also said that the damage had been made worse
because, following the initial failure, Mr P hadnt taken appropriate steps to prevent further
damage to the engines, and as a result theyd been damaged by corrosion before they were
inspected.
Mr P was unhappy with this outcome and complained to SoL. He said that the deterioration
of the hose wasnt something he could have reasonably been aware of and hadnt been
noted when the engines were serviced when he purchased the boat. He also said he had
taken steps to prevent further damage but that it hadnt been possible to have the inspection
which revealed the further damage any sooner.
SoL rejected Mr Ps complaint. It said that the deterioration of the hose should have been
apparent to the engineers who serviced the engines, and that it still considered he should
have taken further actions to prevent further damage.
As Mr P didnt accept this, he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator thought
the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show that
Mr P could have reasonably been aware that the condition of the hose was deteriorating.
And she thought his actions, after the initial failure, were reasonable in the circumstances.
SoL didnt accept this. It maintained that the deterioration of the hose should have been
noted by the engineers when the engines were serviced. Its asked for an ombudsmans
decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
There are two aspects to SoLs decision to decline cover for the claim that I need to consider
here. The first is whether its fair for SoL to rely on the exclusion for wear and tear in the
policy in respect of the failure of the hose. The second is whether Mr P took reasonable
steps after the initial failure to prevent further damage to the engines.
Wear and tear, and the condition of the hose
There are a number of points here which are relevant to my considerations which arent in
dispute. The first is that the initial issue which caused the engine bay to be flooded occurred
because an engine hose failed. And its also accepted that this hose failed because its
condition had deteriorated to the point that it was no longer able to function (as opposed to a
one-off event causing it to fail).
Mr Ps policy is an all risks policy  this means that there doesnt need to be a specific
incident giving rise to a claim for it to be covered, subject to the remaining terms and
conditions of the policy. In declining the claim, SoL relies on an exclusion which says theres
no cover for:
Gradual deterioration unless it could not have been identified by routine inspection and
could not have been prevented by servicing, maintenance or replacement in accordance
with the relevant manufacturers instructions or generally accepted practice and advice from
a qualified marine surveyor who is a member of their relevant professional surveying body.
If SoL is to be able to fairly rely on this exclusion, it needs to be able to demonstrate not only
that the condition of the hose deteriorated gradually, but also that Mr P should have
reasonably been aware of this deterioration.
It seems to be accepted that the condition of the hose did deteriorate over time, so the
question to be addressed is whether Mr P should have been aware of this. And again, its
accepted that the nature of the deterioration was such that it wouldnt have been something
which Mr P would have been aware of or could have noticed from a visual inspection of the
hose. The deterioration was internal and would have been apparent to a trained engineer
who would have noticed softening of the hose.
A report from the engineers who carried out the previous service hasnt been provided or
obtained by SoL but an invoice showing the parts which were fitted at that service is
available. Its agreed that the hose in question wasnt replaced at the service. SoL appears
to rely on this service being inadequate, but hasnt provided or referenced any evidence to
support such a suggestion.
A forensic report, commissioned by SoLs appointed surveyor, concluded that the hose had
deteriorated over time, and that no obvious source of this could be located. I think whats
important here is that in correspondence with SoL after the examination of the hose, the
surveyor concluded that there is no any way to be certain how long ago the degradation first
started, it could have been months or years, and I do not know of any way to determine the
age of the start of the degradation process, and that there was no possibility of applying
any time line to this event.
What this suggests to me is that its not possible to conclude from the examinations and
inspections completed that the condition of the hose at the time of the service was such that
the engineer could have concluded that it was degrading and should be replaced. The
deterioration noted could have started, it seems from the comments of the surveyor, after the
service was completed. And if thats the case, then it follows that there was no way Mr P
could have reasonably known that it was deteriorating until it failed.
Theres one other thing that Ive considered here. The service documentation for the engines
says that the hoses should be inspected at least once a year. The failure of the hose
occurred one year and two days after the previous service. Mr Ps explained to us that the
boat had been used minimally since hed purchased it, and hed made arrangements to have
it serviced around 5 months after this incident when the boat was scheduled to be removedfrom the water for a short period. Hes provided a letter from a locally based engineer who
explained that boats moored at this location can only be removed for a short period each
year in a defined period. Im not persuaded it would be reasonable for me to say that Mr Ps
claim should be unsuccessful simply because he didnt the service carried out before the
incident.
Weve asked SoL what its position would be with regards to the service intervals but it hasnt
commented on what impact the engines were being of their scheduled service timeframe
would have had on their assessment. But in any case, I dont think it would be reasonable to
seek to exclude this incident from cover because the service was two days overdue.
For these reasons, I conclude that SoL cannot fairly rely on the wear and tear exclusion
when declining cover for the claim. I cant be satisfied that the deterioration to the hose
would, or should, have been apparent to Mr P before the failure occurred. And I also cant
safely conclude that the deterioration had started at the time of the previous inspection and
service of the hoses.
The steps taken by Mr P after the initial failure
As Ive concluded that its unreasonable for SoL to rely on the policys wear and tear
exclusion when it declined the claim, I now need to consider whether Mr P took reasonable
steps after the initial failure to prevent further damage to the engines.
Its accepted that most of the damage which occurred to the engines, and which has
rendered them damaged beyond economic repair, was caused by corrosion resulting from
the ingress of sea water at the time of the original failure.
The timeline of what happened here is, I think, important. On the day of the hose failure, the
engine room was flooded and the boat towed back to port. On returning to port, Mr P was
given advice by a marine engineer and the marina manager. The water in the engine room
was pumped out and, on the advice of these people, Mr P sprayed the engines with fresh
water and applied WD-40, grease and anti-corrosive and marine sprays.
A few days later, Mr P replaced the failed hose and turned the engines on. He noted that
they sounded rough and so made arrangements for an engineer to inspect and service the
engines. The earliest date possible for this was around two weeks later. When the engines
were inspected on that date, the damage was noted and Mr P contacted his insurer the
same day to notify it of a claim. This was three weeks after the hose failure and water
ingress.
SoL relies on the terms and conditions of the policy which say It is very important that we
are immediately informed of any event that may lead to a claim under your policy. The
policy also requires, in the event of damage, that the policyholder Take immediate action to
safeguard and protect any property from further damage or deterioration (this may include
first aid to the engine).
Ive seen an email sent to Mr P when he registered the claim. This gives advice about the next
steps, outlining the information which will be required to progress the claim. The email also
mentions taking action to prevent further damage.
Looking at whats happened here, Mr Ps argument would seem to be that he first became aware
of the need to make a claim when the engines were inspected three weeks after the water
ingress. SoLs contention would seem to be that Mr P should have been aware that he would
likely need to make a claim following the water ingress.Im not sure I need to make a finding on this point. More relevant in my opinion is that, by Mr Ps
account, the actions Ive outlined above were taken after the hose failure and water ingress to
preserve the engines. I havent seen anything from SoL to refute this suggestion, or any details
of what further actions it considers Mr P should have taken to prevent further damage.
Ive noted the policy wording, and email sent to Mr P. But it seems to me that these give generic
advice around ensuring further damage doesnt occur. Neither the policy terms and conditions,
nor the email sent to Mr P, give specific instructions on actions to take.
I understand SoLs position that it needs to be informed of a claim at the earliest opportunity, so
that actions can be taken to prevent further damage (and thereby increase the potential liability).
But in this case, I cant see any evidence that SoL would have required further actions to be
taken by Mr P beyond what hed already done.
The response to my provisional decision
Mr P didnt respond to the provisional decision. SoL explained why it disagreed with me.
SoLs response didnt address the failure occurring over a year after the previous service. It 
maintained that the claim could be fairly declined as the hose which failed had gradually 
deteriorated and this could have been identified by routine inspection. It said that the policy 
exclusions meant that there was no cover for the damage. 
SoL also said that, even if I concluded that the proximate cause of the damage should be 
covered, Mr Ps actions after the initial failure and incursion of water meant that he hadnt 
acted in accordance with the policy terms, and so it should be entitled to decline the claim on 
that basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied that SoL didnt act reasonably in declining Mr Ps claim. Ill 
explain why. 
My thoughts on why SoL had unfairly declined the claim were previously outlined, and 
nothing Ive seen means Im minded to change my opinion on those. I will, however, respond 
to the points raised by SoL in its response to my provisional decision.
SoLs response appears to suggest that the deterioration of the hose could have been 
identified by Mr P or someone else on the boat outside of scheduled maintenance and 
servicing. In this regard it points to the failed hose being identified after the incident. 
I dont agree with this. SoLs own position previously was that the nature of the deterioration 
was that a qualified surveyor or engineer would have been able to identify the deterioration. 
The deterioration was to an internal element of the hose. So Im not sure how it would have 
been possible, or reasonable, for Mr P to have identified the deterioration outside of a 
service or maintenance performed by a qualified professional. I cant agree that the 
identification of the failed hose after the incident is relevant. The failure caused the hose to 
fully split, with damage being visible. So it seems obvious that such damage could be easily 
identified by a layperson.
Im satisfied that this deterioration could only have been properly identified by a qualified 
professional undertaking routine servicing inspections and maintenance. Theres no 
evidence to say that the previous service was inadequate. The forensic examination of the hose couldnt say when the deterioration started, or would have been noticeable. So as Ive 
said previously, Im satisfied that while the hose failed as a result of gradual deterioration, 
Im not persuaded that there was any reasonable opportunity for this to be identified prior to 
the failure.
SoL points to two other exclusions in the policy which it says should apply here. The policy 
excludes damage caused by:
1. Incursion of water unless sudden and unforeseen, or accidental
2. The cost of repairs or replacement machinery directly caused by mechanical 
breakdown
I dont think either of these exclusions can be fairly relied on. Ill briefly explain why. Im 
satisfied that the incursion of water following the sudden failure of the hose could fairly be 
described as sudden and unforeseen. And Im satisfied that the damage here has been 
caused by the incursion of water into the engine room, which has then caused the 
breakdown. I dont think its fair for SoL to rely on the exclusion for mechanical breakdown in 
these circumstances.
As SoL hasnt made any comment around the service interval, and so I wont mention this 
again, except to say that theres nothing Ive seen to change my opinion on that point. 
With regards to Mr Ps actions following the incident, SoL says that the circumstances of 
what happened (the water incursion, call to the RNLI and towing back to port) mean that Mr 
P should reasonably have known that he may need to make a claim. I understand this, but 
would observe that after this had happened, Mr P had received advice on what steps to take 
in order to preserve the engines. I think he reasonably assumed that having done this, the 
only costs which were likely to arise were in replacing the hose, which he didnt intend to 
claim for. I cant see that he was aware, or should have been aware, that there may have 
been further damage which would require making a claim. I cant agree that Mr P was under 
an obligation to report the incident as a possible claim on the day it occurred.
SoL also says that if it had been made aware of the incident earlier, it would have given 
advice of what to do. But it doesnt give any indication of what that advice would have been. 
Ive previously covered the actions taken by Mr P after the incident to prevent further 
damage. SoL doesnt say what further steps beyond this it would have said he had to take, 
or why the steps taken were inadequate. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr P didnt act in 
an appropriate way after the incident to prevent further damage. The intention of the policy 
terms and conditions which require SoL to be contacted in the event of a claim is, it seems, 
so that advice and steps can be taken to prevent further damage. In the absence of SoL 
demonstrating that Mr P didnt take reasonable steps, or that it would have given alternative 
advice, I cant say it can reasonably seek to decline cover for the claim on this basis.
  
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right I direct Society of 
Lloyds to consider the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman