DRN-3054405
The complaint
Mr P has complained National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund transactions he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr P contacted NatWest as there were numerous transfers on his account he 
didnt recognise. These had been made using Mr Ps mobile banking service. Mr P also 
reported hed lost his card over the preceding weekend and disputed card transactions as 
well.
NatWest refunded card transactions. NatWest noted theyd sent Mr P a one-time passcode 
to allow another device to be used to make online transactions. As they couldnt work out 
how someone had got hold of that code without Mr P being involved, they told him they 
wouldnt be refunding £3,485 he disputed for eight payments.
Mr P brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. This included audit trails of the transactions in 
dispute. It was clear these were made from another device. But our investigator felt all of this 
showed the disputed transactions had more than likely been authorised by Mr P.
Mr P still disagreed with this outcome and has asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ps complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing that specifically 
seems relevant in Mr Ps case.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by NatWest and 
Mr P. Ive also noted the detail in our investigators views of 6 and 19 August 2021 but feel 
no need to rerun some of the arguments made there. The view also contained a run-down of 
the disputed transactions and their timing. I dont intend to repeat this detail either. 
Mr P disputed £3,485 worth of online bank transfers made over a short period of time 
(slightly more than 12 hours). Mr P has told us his card was stolen and also disputed the 
card transactions that he believed had been made fraudulently. I was immediately interested 
to see NatWest refunded the disputed card transactions even though this meant they 
thought someone had been able to find out what Mr Ps PIN was. This was relevant as this 
card (and PIN) would also be used to set up new payees allowing the disputed transactions 
to be made.
In further discussion with NatWest, they have confirmed they believed theyd refunded the 
card transactions in error and without any proper investigation. Whilst I dont think they will 
be asking Mr P to repay any money, I need to confirm that having reviewed what happened 
here I cant immediately see how someone would have been able to know Mr Ps PIN.
Mr P has told us his banking details  including his online customer number  were on notes 
within his phone. Although he lost his NatWest debit card, he didnt lose his phone. In fact he 
used his own mobile over the few days that the disputed transactions were also made. He 
was logging in at the same time so I do wonder why he didnt immediately notice 
transactions hes now telling us he didnt make. Mr P has wondered whether his cloud 
service was hacked but Ive seen no evidence to support this.
Theres no dispute from the evidence Ive seen that another mobile phone was linked to 
Mr Ps account. This other mobile was used to transfer the disputed transactions. Mr P 
hasnt been able to explain how a one-time passcode sent to his mobile by NatWest was 
then able to be used by an unknown party to access his account on another mobile and 
make payments to newly-set up third parties.
Around this time there are a lot of other online transactions happening. So I can see over 
£13,000 transferred into Mr Ps account and over £10,500 transferred out (in five different 
transactions) which Mr P hasnt disputed. It all seems odd that these transactions  which 
are as out of character as the newly-set up payments  were all happening at the same time.
Overall I find the scenario Mr P has described as extremely unlikely. I say this from 
reviewing the type of transactions that Mr P disputed. NatWest gave us more than three 
years of bank statements to review. Over most of that time  except the period and 
transactions in dispute - Mr P maintained a small balance in his account.  As much as £500 
and as little as £100 on different occasions. But here I can see Mr P had a balance of 
£14,600 at one stage. 
After the disputed transactions, theres still about £3,000 left in Mr Ps account. If, as he 
suggests, an unknown party was able to access his debit card and use that to make online 
payments, I have to wonder why they didnt immediately steal as much money as possible 
emptying Mr Ps account. 
Im always slightly wary of claiming theres a specific type of fraudulent behaviour when this 
can vary widely. But it is certainly more common for an unknown fraudster to use as much 
money as quickly as possible particularly if someone is likely to miss their card, still have 
access to their own mobile account  as happened here  and report it promptly. This didnt 
happen here.
Overall based on the evidence I believe it is more than likely Mr P authorised these 
transactions himself. I appreciate his strong denial this is what happened but I wont be 
asking NatWest to refund Mr P.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ps complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman