DRN-3405347
The complaint
Ms C complains that RAC Insurance Limited has wrongly rejected a claim on her legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to RAC Insurance Limited, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting 
on its behalf.
What happened
Ms C completed the purchase of her house on 6 February 2019. She took out buildings and 
contents insurance for the property on 1 February, which included legal expenses insurance. 
In June 2020 Ms C became aware of a potentially serious issue with the gabion baskets that 
were being used as a wall between her property and her next door neighbours. She said it 
was when she noticed another neighbour was having work done to their gabion baskets that 
she made enquiries about hers.
Ms C instructed an engineer to inspect the baskets. He provided a report that said they were 
not fit for purpose and potentially unsafe. Ms C took this up with the builder but wasnt able 
to get any resolution with them. So she made a claim on her legal expenses cover but her 
claim was rejected.
At the time when M C made her claim the underwriters of the legal expenses section had 
changed and werent the same underwriters from when shed first taken out her policy. This 
led to some confusion as to who should deal with the claim. The original insurers had looked 
into her complaint. After Ms C complained to this service the correct insurer  RAC  looked 
into it but also rejected the claim and for the same reason.
RAC says theres no cover because the date of occurrence is before the start of the 
insurance policy. The policy doesnt cover a claim where the event leading to the claim 
happened before the policy started.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair to reject the claim. She acknowledged that theres no 
cover for pre-existing disputes, but said Ms C wasnt aware of the problem when she bought 
the house and it wouldnt be fair to apply the exclusion in these circumstances.  
RAC disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. I agreed with our investigator that the 
complaint should be upheld, but proposed a slightly different way of resolving it. I set out my 
reasons as follows:
The policy doesnt provide cover for a dispute that started before the policy was taken out. 
Thats not unusual  this type of policy is intended to provide cover for future events, not for 
something thats already happened. But I still need to consider whether its fair to reject a 
claim in the circumstances Ms C found herself in.
The relevant terms include exclusions for
Any incident arising before the start of this policy
Where the Insured Event had commenced or occurred before the first period of 
insurance.
Where at, or prior to, the start of the first period of insurance, in Our reasonable 
judgement, You should have realised that a claim might occur.
The policy defines an insured event as:
the incident or the start date of a transaction or series of incidents which may lead to a claim 
or claims being made under the terms of cover. For the purpose of the limit, only one insured 
event will be regarded as having arisen from all causes or actions, incidents or events which 
are related by cause or time.
So the terms say theres no cover where the incident that leads to the claim happens before 
the policy started. RAC says the incident was the defective building work. That did happen 
before Ms C took out the insurance. But I dont think its fair to say the claim is excluded on 
that basis.
The aim of this term is to avoid cover where theres already a dispute when the policy is 
taken out; the policy is intended to cover the risk of something that might happen in the 
future, not something thats already happened. And the policy terms also specifically refer to 
the situation where the policyholder should have been aware when they took out the policy 
that a claim might happen. In my view, thats the fair way to approach this.
Ms C didnt know  and couldnt reasonably have known  there was a problem with the wall 
when she took out the policy to cover the property she was buying. So at that point she 
wasnt in dispute with the builder and wouldnt have known she might need to make a claim 
on the policy. That only became apparent some time later. In these circumstances it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable to exclude cover.
That doesnt necessarily mean her claim is covered. As it was rejected on this basis, RAC 
didnt go on to assess the claim and there may be other policy terms that apply. So I agree 
with our investigator that it should not apply the exclusion for pre-existing disputes and 
should reconsider the policy in line with the remaining policy terms. If the claim is accepted 
then going forward, her legal costs should be covered in line with the policy terms.
In addition, Ms C has had to incur legal costs to pursue the dispute without the benefit of 
cover. If the claim is accepted then she should be reimbursed for those costs. Otherwise she 
will be out of pocket due to RAC having incorrectly rejected her claim. And as shes been 
deprived of that money interest should be added.
The policy requires a claim to have a reasonable chance of success for cover to be 
provided. The terms say RAC may require Ms C to get a legal opinion on the merits of the 
case and, if the opinion is in her favour, it will pay the cost of the advice. I understand Ms C 
has legal advice confirming her claim has a high chance of success. If she provides this 
advice to RAC it should be taken into account in assessing the claim. And if it is supportive, 
RAC should reimburse the cost of her obtaining that opinion.
Ms C has incurred legal costs so far of around £19,000. These costs have had a significant 
financial impact on her. Shes had to borrow money from relatives and has been left with 
financial difficulties having to pay the legal fees. She has also explained that her relationship 
with her next door neighbours has deteriorated. The neighbours have expressed concern 
about their safety and have sought their own legal advice on how the defective wall might 
affect them. The claim has been ongoing since June 2020, with delays caused by her being 
referred to the wrong insurer. If she had been given the right information at the start its unlikely it would have taken so long to reach this point or had such an impact on her. Having 
to deal with the legal dispute is itself distressing and time consuming, and this has been 
made worse by the issues with her insurance claim.
I agree that a payment of £500 would be fair to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Ms C by the way the claim has been handled.
Putting things right
To put things right, RAC should not apply the exclusions for pre-existing disputes, and 
should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
If the claim is covered, RAC should:
provide cover for her legal costs going forward in line with the policy terms; and 
reimburse Ms C for the legal costs she has incurred to date, together with simple 
interest at 8% on those costs from the date she paid them to the date she is 
reimbursed.
Whether or not the claim is covered, RAC should also pay to Ms C:
the cost of any legal advice provided by her confirming that the claim has a 
reasonable chance of success; and
compensation of £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Replies to the provisional decision
RAC has confirmed that it will review the claim in line with the provisional decision and has 
contacted Ms C about this.
Ms C has confirmed that she accepts the decision, but has raised a number of concerns 
about what will happen next. Ive summarised the key points as follows:
RAC has requested all her paperwork in order to review the claim. Its not clear how 
much she should provide, particularly when correspondence with her solicitors is 
confidential.
This appears to mean the whole process is starting all over again and its critical that 
things are dealt with quickly, bearing in mind all the delays up to now.
She would like to continue using her own solicitors, as they are familiar with the case.
RACs correspondence suggests there will be a long process to review the claim and 
even if it is covered, it may not pay all her solicitors costs; she might need to pay 
some costs herself if she continues to use her own solicitors.
If RAC declines her claim again, it seems the legal costs she has already incurred 
will be overlooked.
Her own legal advice is that the claim has an 80  85% chance of success, so it 
should be covered. It wouldnt be right if she only receives the compensation of £500 
and nothing more.
To avoid further disagreement, she has asked if the figure for her costs to date is 
given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RAC has confirmed that it will arrange for the claim to be reviewed, in line with my 
provisional decision. Ms C has accepted the provisional decision but has raised a number of concerns about the process that follows. While theres no reason for me to change my 
decision, I will address Ms Cs concerns so there is clarity about what should happen.
I appreciate Ms C would like her claim accepted and her costs paid promptly  the longer 
this goes on, the more stressful it will be for her. But it is reasonable for RAC to review her 
claim again. As I explained in my provisional decision, RAC rejected the claim on the basis 
this was a pre-existing dispute. So it didnt go on to consider any of the other policy terms. 
Even though I dont think the claim should be excluded on that basis, that doesnt mean the 
claim is automatically covered. There are other policy terms that need to be considered, in 
particular whether the claim has a reasonable chance of success and the costs of pursuing it 
are proportionate to the value of the claim.
Ms C says her advice is that the claim has a very high chance of success. Shes provided a 
legal opinion on this. But a lot of the document has been redacted. And although it does say 
the chances of success are very high (around 80%) I note it also says the conclusions are 
Subject to the reviews and information given in response to the questions  
It's reasonable for RAC to satisfy itself the claim does meet the other requirements of the 
policy. So while I appreciate why Ms C is concerned about further delays, I think its fair that 
RAC should be able to review the claim. If Ms C wishes it to take account of her legal advice, 
she can share that advice, and she would need to provide the full document.
If the claim is accepted, there are other steps RAC would need to take, including appointing 
solicitors to represent Ms C or agreeing terms of appointment with her solicitors. 
Ms C is concerned that if the claim isnt accepted, the costs she has already had to pay 
wont be reimbursed. If RAC wrongly turned her claim down and she had to pay costs as a 
result, then shes out of pocket as a result of its error and those costs should be repaid to 
her. But if the claim doesnt meet the other policy terms, she would never have been entitled 
to cover for those costs in any event. 
Ive considered all the points Ms C has raised but it remains my view the fair way to proceed 
is for RAC to assess the claim again and, if the claim is covered, to agree terms for her legal 
cover going forward and reimburse the costs she has already had to pay. I know Ms C is 
concerned about further delay. I cant comment any further, other than to say RAC has a 
duty to deal with the claim promptly and fairly, and if there are any further issues she can 
make a fresh complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right, RAC should not apply the exclusions for pre-existing disputes, and 
should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
If the claim is covered, RAC should:
provide cover for her legal costs going forward in line with the policy terms; and 
reimburse Ms C for the legal costs she has incurred to date, together with simple 
interest at 8% on those costs from the date she paid them to the date she is 
reimbursed.
Whether or not the claim is covered, RAC should also pay to Ms C:
the cost of any legal advice provided by her confirming that the claim has a 
reasonable chance of success; and
compensation of £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct RAC Insurance Limited to take the action set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman