DRN-3842250
The complaint
A complaint was made on behalf of Mrs C and the estate of Mr C, and also on behalf of Mrs 
R and Mrs K. Their representative is unhappy that Standard Life (SL) disinvested funds held 
within Mr Cs self-invested pension plan (SIPP) on being informed of Mr Cs death. This was 
done against the requests made on behalf of the complainants.
 
The representative was Mr C and Mrs Cs financial adviser for some years.
What happened
Mr C started his SIPP with SL in August 2007. The representative says that prior to 2015 
hed ensured Mr C completed an expression of wishes form to set out what he wanted to 
happen to his SIPP death benefits in the event of his death. 
The representative has told us that he met with SL and discussed death benefits and what 
was possible after the changes in 2015. The representative says that SL told him information 
that is contrary to SLs position on this complaint. 
On 10 April 2017 the representative sent SL a copy of Mr Cs expression of wishes form for 
his SIPP. This had been signed on 6 April 2017. This set out that Mr C wished to leave all of 
the death benefits from his SIPP to Mrs C. The form noted that his daughters (Mrs R and 
Mrs K) were his alternate preferred beneficiaries in the event Mrs C pre-deceased him. The 
form sets out information about the way in which SL will use the information contained on the 
expression of wishes form and some information on the taxation of death benefits.
Part 2 sets out how to complete the form. This explains that if Mr C dies with money still 
invested in his SIPP, the remaining fund can be paid out to provide death benefit to his 
beneficiaries. It sets out that any instruction given about who to pay benefits to is an 
expression of wish and is not binding. It is explained this means that SL will decide who to 
pay benefits to, taking account of all matters, including Mr Cs expression of wish.
The form contains information on the Options for a beneficiary. This sets out that once SL 
has chosen the beneficiary or beneficiaries, they can choose how to take benefits from their 
share of the plan. The possible options given at the time were:
Take a lump sum
Take an annuity 
Withdraw an income and if they wish, buy an annuity later
The form also sets out that depending on the option selected the beneficiary may need to 
transfer their share to another product or provider. And there is signposting on where to find 
further information.
Mr C died on 18 April 2020. SL were told of his death in a letter dated 11 May 2020. Mrs C 
was the named executor in Mr Cs will. The material provided to this service includes various 
emails between the representative and SL.
On 13 May 2020 SL emailed the representative. SL sent their condolences at hearing of the 
death of Mr C. SL went on to set out the amount of the death benefits payable from Mr Cs 
SIPP, but explained this value was only for illustrative purposes as they were arranging the 
sale of the investments as per their terms and conditions. SL went on to explain their 
approach to exercising their discretion to whom benefits would be paid. This included taking 
into account the expression of wishes form completed by Mr C. SL went on to ask the 
representative to provide some further information. 
Around an hour later on the same day, the representative replied to SL that it was likely he 
would advise Mrs C to move the death benefits into a beneficiary drawdown arrangement to 
be retained by SL and he queried why this hadnt been mentioned in the options SL had 
sent. 
On 18 May 2020 it appears SL sent a copy of the SIPP terms and conditions to the 
representative. There were various further activities on 18 May 2020. The representative 
instructed SL not to cause the investments held in Mr Cs plan to be sold. SL say they were 
required to cause this to happen.
Both the representative and SL were in contact with Brooks Macdonald (the SIPPs 
investment managers) about the disinvestment (or otherwise) of the fund. The representative 
was trying to stop this taking place. Ultimately the Brooks Macdonald acted on SLs 
instruction to sell. It isnt suggested Brooks Macdonald were wrong to do that. Its said SL 
were wrong to instruct them to do this.
On 19 May 2020 the representative told SL by email that he wanted to complain. The 
representative said SL had been wrong to cause the SIPP portfolio to be disinvested on 18 
May 2020 and that he had informed SL on a number of occasions that Mrs C wanted to 
transfer the investments in-specie to a beneficiary drawdown arrangement thus retaining the 
investments.
The representative said SL could have done this and had done so for another client in the 
same position with the same plan. Information on this other client was provided for reference 
and by agreement with the client. SL say this was a different situation.
The representative considered beneficiary instructions had been wrongly ignored. The 
representative went on to detail his dis-satisfaction with the terms of the SIPP and SLs 
interpretation and reliance on the terms. Whilst he initially referred to terms 12.1 and 12.3, 
he clarified he meant 13.1 and 13.3 as Mr Cs plan was in drawdown.
In essence the representative suggested and continues to say SL failed to exercise their 
discretion as they ought to have done. Paragraph 13.1. says that following the death of the 
SIPP owner "we'll normally sell all the investments....". The representative stresses the terms 
dont say that SL will do this. As such the representative thinks SL are relying on a discretion 
to explain why they did something they ought not to have done.
Further, the representative considers paragraph 13.3 sets out SL will offer Beneficiary 
Drawdown. He says this isnt what was offered as he says a beneficiary drawdown must 
mean there is an in-specie transfer of investments between plans.
We have been provided with three versions of the terms (which have print dates of 2013, 
2015 and 2021 on them). I have returned to this later. In particular it has been important to 
consider the changes made to the terms in April 2015 when there was a legislative change 
of relevance to Mr Cs plan. Term 13.1 deals with what happens to the death benefits of a 
SIPP in drawdown. Term 13.3 historically (pre-2015) addressed the potential for a dependants pension but after 
the changes in 2015, it was amended to address the potential for a beneficiarys pension, 
the scope of who might receive death benefits having in general terms been widened due to 
the legislative changes.
Overall the representative says Mrs C wanted to transfer the investments held in Mr Cs 
drawdown SIPP arrangement into an arrangement for her. And he says this was a 
beneficiary drawdown arrangement that did not necessitate the need for encashment of the 
investments, simply a change in ownership of the investment account and the SIPP. The 
representative is unhappy about the distress and impact he says were caused to the 
beneficiary as well as the inevitable associated additional costs and loss.
The representative went on to contact SL on 20 May 2020 to stress he considered SLs 
approach unusual compared to other providers and included some information from another 
provider. This is a point that has been pursued further, with the representative providing 
further information. In particular its said SL ought not to have acted to sell the investments 
when they did and ought to have waited. On 22 May 2020 SL acknowledged the complaint.
On 11 June 2020 the representative told SL that they had caused a financial loss to Mrs C of 
just under £12,500. The representative repeated his dis-satisfaction that SL relied on the use 
of the word may in their terms and conditions. The representative suggested SL had put 
Mrs C in danger due to the Covid pandemic because of what SL were requiring Mrs C to do. 
SL didnt accept the complaint. In summary they didnt think they had done anything wrong 
and although they appreciated the frustration, they felt they were unable to do what they had 
been asked to do.
SL said that prior to the government's Pensions Freedoms changes in April 2015, our SIPP 
terms and conditions stated that we would not sell all the plan assets... "if the only 
beneficiary is a dependant who has the right to a dependant's pension account in relation to 
the whole plan and they've accepted the risk of the assets changing in value, upwards or 
downwards, before their dependant's pension account is set up." When the concept of 
nominees was introduced for flexi-access drawdown as part of these pension freedoms this 
condition was removed from our SIPP terms and conditions in April 2015.
Overall SL concluded that in their capacity as scheme administrator and trustee, they had 
acted appropriately and in accordance with the relevant rules contained in the trust deed, 
and the rules and terms in force at the time of Mr Cs death. SL say their terms had 
previously been updated to set out they would sell funds on notification of death. SL 
confirmed that on 3 July 2020 £203,579.45 was disinvested from the SIPP portfolio.
In July 2020 the representative referred the complaint to this service. At this time he told us 
the loss was just over £14,000. The representative set out more information about the 
complaint and background. 
The representative explained hed had numerous telephone conversations with the family 
following Mr Cs death and discussed various options. It was established that Mrs C had 
sufficient income and did not need to access funds in Mr Cs SIPP and so the representative 
said that based on this and the volatility in the financial markets at the time, it had been 
agreed it was sensible to leave the funds invested and move the plan in-specie into a 
beneficiary drawdown plan.. The representative stressed this was something he had 
previously done for another client who died in 2015 and had the same type of plan with SL. 
In summary the representative complained to us that:
SL did not act in accordance with their responsibilities or duties, nor in the best 
interest of the beneficiaries.SL ignored the beneficiarys instructions not to sell the investment.
SL failed to exercise their discretion as they ought to have done.
SL did not act in accordance with term 13.3 which was said to allow beneficiary 
drawdown. 
SL failed to provide evidence the revised SIPP terms had been sent to Mr C.
In any event the current terms were relevant (13.1 and 13.3) and demonstrated what 
SL could and ought to have done.
On 20 October 2020 the representative highlighted a further matter. This arose from the 
email issued by SL outlining the options available to Mrs C on her husbands death. In 
particular the representative highlighted a leaflet attached to the email and the contents on 
page 1 that said:
Flexible Income (Drawdown) allows you to leave your share of the death benefit invested 
and take an income from it. The amount of income taken can vary and be changed at any 
time. As the pension pot stays invested, there is potential for it to grow, however, this is not 
guaranteed. So you will have to be comfortable taking the risk that if investments dont 
perform well enough, they might not be able to sustain the amount of income you need.
The representative suggests this makes it clear Mrs C was allowed to leave her share of the 
death benefit invested and take an income from it. 
SL told us:
The Terms that govern the type of plan Mr C had (and which the other client also has), 
set out that on the date of notification of the death of a member, we will sell the assets as 
soon as possible. This is to protect the Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) plan fund 
from market fluctuations and to create a stable value for providing the death benefits while 
we are gathering information about the potential beneficiaries. Encashment is necessary if 
there will be more than one chosen beneficiary since we cant split SIPP assets between 
beneficiaries  we can only split a cash value.
They said their SIPP Scheme Rules are written in such terms that when paying out death 
benefits, they have absolute discretion as to whom to make their payment. This is said to 
prevent the death benefits from falling into the deceaseds estate. SL stress that although an 
individual can help SL in the exercise their discretion by completing an Instruction for 
Payment of Death Benefits form (Expression of Wish), these forms are not legally binding 
and are only used as guidance.  SL says they gather information about all the potential 
beneficiaries and then exercise their discretion in choosing one or more of them to receive 
the death benefits.
SL told us why they say a case referred to by the representative was dis-similar to that of 
this one. In particular they noted the client had not died and so work could be completed in 
respect of all potential beneficiaries in advance. In general terms SL noted the shorter the 
period is between notification of death and the settling of the death benefits, the lower the 
risk is of market fluctuations having an adverse impact on the value of the death benefits. 
Encashment may therefore only be required in this particular instance if more than one 
beneficiary is chosen.The representative says this is not correct and the client had died, and the funds were 
allowed to remain invested.
The investigators views
The investigator issued two views in respect of this complaint, on 27 August 2021 and 15 
September 2021. He didnt change his thinking in either view, but his second view 
responded to further submissions and material provided.
The investigator didnt think SL had done anything wrong. Whilst he understood the 
frustration and disappointment the representative had expressed and on behalf of Mrs C in 
particular, he thought SL had acted in-line with their terms.
The investigator didnt think the circumstances which allowed for an investment not to be 
sold on the death of a SIPP holder had arisen here; namely where an investment cannot be 
sold. The investigator also set out that Mrs C did have the option of a SL drawdown plan, it 
was just that the investments could not be transferred into such a plan, in-specie.
The investigator didnt think anything was provided that showed SL offered an in-specie 
transfer in the way proposed by the representative at the time. Nor did he think that any 
instructions not to sell the investments ought to have been effective or that such instructions 
had been wrongly ignored.
The investigator noted an email the representative had provided from a SL Account Manager 
dated 1 July 2015 with information about products supporting beneficiary drawdown and 
further information highlighting the importance of ensuring clients are in a product which 
supports Beneficiary drawdown. The investigator acknowledged the representative had said 
hed been told the importance of nominating a beneficiary, and the importance of the 
Expression of Wish. The investigator didnt accept this information demonstrated SL had 
said there was a right to instruct SL not to sell investments on the death of a SIPP holder or 
to allow an in- specie transfer. He noted this didnt mean Mrs C didnt have the option of a 
beneficiary pension.
The investigator accepted the terms of Mr Cs SIPP had changed since hed started the plan. 
And that Mr C didnt appear to have been provided with information on the new terms in April 
2015 when they were changed. The investigator acknowledged the representative had 
highlighted paragraph 18.14 of the terms which states SL are obliged to communicate 
changes to members. And whilst he thought it would have been better had SL provided them 
directly to members, the investigator didnt think this meant SL had done something wrong in 
the context of this complaint. He noted the changes had been due to legislative changes. 
The investigator didnt think it was likely there would have been a different outcome had the 
updated terms been sent out.
The investigator noted the representative thought SL was acting differently to other business 
in this respect. The investigator set out SLs reasoning that they sell the assets in all cases in 
order to preserve the value of the members fund and avoid falls in the fund value. And the 
investigator didnt think it was relevant that other business would make different decisions, 
as he didnt consider SL had acted unreasonably or wrongly here. The investigator has 
provided copies of the material supplied by SL to this service to the representative.
Provisional decision
On 7 November 2022 I issued my provisional decision setting out what I intended to decide 
and why. I indicated I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I explained that I wasnt issuing 
the provisional decision because I differed from the general thinking expressed by the investigator. However Id seen further submissions and information had been provided since 
the views were issued and I wanted to share my thinking and give parties to opportunity to 
respond. SL had nothing further to add.
Responses on behalf of the complainants
The complainants representative doesnt agree with my provisional decision. He provided 
comments on my provisional decision and further submissions. In summary he considers Mr 
Cs fund represents money owed to his clients that has been hard earned and he continues 
to think SL ignored instructions not to disinvest at a time when the market was volatile.
The representative says that no other SIPP trustee would have acted in the same way as 
SL. He thinks SL must have acted in the way they did for their own financial benefit and he 
thinks I have either dismissed or ignored what he has said and provided. He also thinks I 
have dismissed or ignored examples he provided where things were done differently to the 
way they were done here. He doesnt think the terms set out properly what SLs approach is 
and says that this service has relied on evidence which we ought not to have done. The 
representative is dis-satisfied SL didnt send out updated copies of their terms in 2015.
The representative also provided us with a response made on behalf of the complainants. In 
this they said they were disappointed and said they agreed with the representative and his 
frustration that this service wasnt being impartial and that the service is funded by those 
they investigate. The complainants appeared to think SL were using a legal team in respect 
of this complaint. There have been no legal letters sent by SL and I am not aware of any 
involvement of a legal team. This service is specifically set up as an informal and alternative 
resolution system to the courts where people can make complaints on their own behalf for 
free and without needing to be represented.
I have seen the representative has recently sent us a communication stating that he is a 
financial planner and not a representative. I hope he understands that in the context of this 
complaint, he has been the representative of the complainants, and that is why he has been 
referred to in this way. It has been understood his connection with the complainants was as 
a financial adviser. Ive also seen the representative notes his business helps to fund this 
service, so he thinks this means he has a right to know what is being paid for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything I dont think SL did anything wrong, nor were they acting unreasonably 
when they instructed the disinvestment of Mr Cs fund on being informed of his death. Whilst 
they might have had the discretion to act differently, I dont consider the manner in which 
they chose to exercise their discretion was so flawed as to be wrong or unreasonable. SL 
didnt do anything wrong in respect of how they dealt with the matters complained of here. 
Nor were they acting unreasonably when they instructed the disinvestment of Mr Cs fund on 
being informed of his death.
We have received a substantial quantity of information and submissions. I am not detailing 
everything provided. Ultimately it is for me to conclude what needs to be contained in my 
decision. Id like to reassure all parties I have seen everything provided and have considered 
everything with real care and reflection. 
I accept that where potential beneficiaries need to be identified and SL are yet to exercise 
their discretion and determine who will benefit, it isnt unreasonable and there can sometimes be potential benefits to moving a fund into cash as soon as possible. I accept 
from SL this is their usual approach. Its said SL already knew who the beneficiary was as 
Mrs C was still alive. I dont accept SL had completed the formal process to reflect the 
determination.
My understanding is that the discretion not to disinvest on being informed of the plan 
holders death is primarily preserved to reflect the circumstances where there are 
investments that cannot be sold. It seems to me there may be wider circumstances where 
SL might choose to exercise their discretion differently. This does not mean SL were wrong 
to choose to exercise their discretion in the way they did here. 
I accept SLs SIPP Scheme Rules are written in such terms that SL have absolute discretion 
as to the payment of death benefits. I dont consider this to be unusual. This includes in 
respect of identifying to whom any benefits will be paid as well as the selling of investments. 
I accept this discretion acts in such a way as to prevent death benefits from falling into the 
deceaseds estate.
In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont conclude SL acted unreasonably in the 
exercise of their discretion. This again does not mean they also could have done things 
differently.  I am sorry the representative doesnt understand this. But ultimately SL had a 
discretion around what they chose to do.
SL doesnt think they directly informed SIPP customers there had been a change in their 
terms and their approach following the new legislation in 2015. Its accepted the SL website 
has been updated. I understand why its felt this is unsatisfactory and I have seen whats 
been identified in SLs terms at paragraph 18 about informing customers of changes. I 
havent considered this failure fatal to SLs position for the reasons I previously provided. I 
dont accept that a direct communication here about the changes made to the terms in 2015, 
were more likely than not to have led to a different outcome.
Paragraph 18 specifically sets out the preservation of the power to make reasonable and 
appropriate changes to the terms and why and how this might happen. Specifically it refers 
to the situation where there are legislative changes, as there was here in 2015. Paragraph 
18 preserves this power to change the terms in all three versions of the terms I have seen.
The representative accepts that he and/ or his firm were aware of the implications of the 
legislative changes in 2015. I understand the representative says thats why they made 
things clear on who the beneficiaries were on expression of wishes form. The relevant form 
was provided to SL in 2017. This was some significant time after the terms were updated 
and were available for reference, to the representative as well as Mr C.
Ive seen the representative felt he didnt understand why I included the above paragraph in 
my provisional decision. I considered this information reflects what was said by the 
representative and also assists with the timeline of what information was available at the 
time the expression of wishes form was completed and advice was apparently provided.
It may be that the representative and Mrs C and her family feel Mr C had been sufficiently 
clear in what he wanted and who his beneficiaries were or potentially were. However SL had 
changed their approach and what they offered as well as what they would usually do on 
being informed of the death of their customer who held a SIPP in drawdown. 
In any event I am not persuaded it can be concluded that Mr C had intended Mrs C would 
receive death benefits from his plan by way of an in-specie transfer of investments. The 
representative has been clear that the motive behind the instruction not to disinvest was 
based on the specific circumstances of Mrs C at the time and the volatility of the markets. 
These were not matters that could have been reasonably foreseen. Indeed in his email to SL shortly after SL were made aware of Mr Cs death, the adviser only sets out what his thinks 
the likely advice will be to Mrs C. 
Given it isnt unusual to review the ongoing performance of investments, I would consider it 
unlikely that Mr C, who could not have known when he might die, would have decided in 
2017 that in the future his investments representing death benefits, ought to be transferred 
in-specie. 
So I dont uphold any complaint made on behalf of Mr Cs estate that his wishes were 
wrongly or unreasonably frustrated by SL.
Ive seen it is said SL wrongly ignored the wishes of the beneficiary and the instruction 
communicated on their behalf. I dont accept SL were wrong or unreasonable to act in the 
way they did. I think SL acted in accordance with their terms and the discretion preserved by 
the terms. I also think technically SL did not ignore what was requested but declined to 
accept the instructions. For completeness I am not persuaded SL owed a duty to a potential 
beneficiary at the time that is complained about (before the beneficiary has been formally 
identified and confirmed by SL), such as to be bound to accept any personal instruction not 
to disinvest, as opposed to wider duty to any potential beneficiary.
Settling a claim to death benefits can take some time and I dont think its unreasonable for 
SL to consider they might reasonably owe a duty of care (to potential beneficiaries) to the 
preserve or protect the plan value while the process is ongoing. I dont accept SL ought to 
have reasonably known of when or if the market was reaching the height of volatility, given 
what was a wider globally uncertain time.
The representative has let us know that he says he was personally told in a meeting with an 
SL representative that they would accommodate in-specie transfers of SIPPs in drawdown. 
This does not mean ultimately that what SL did here was wrong. I am not looking at a 
complaint that SL provided the wrong information to Mr C or his representative prior to his 
death. That would need to be a separate complaint to be made to SL to consider if it is 
pursued. 
I have seen the investigator noted the email from a SL Account Manager dated 1 July 2015 
with information about products supporting beneficiary drawdown and further information 
highlighting the importance of ensuring clients are in a product which supports beneficiary 
drawdown. This doesnt persuade me SL did something wrong. SL did and does offer a 
beneficiary drawdown arrangement.
The representative says he didnt stress to us that the offering of a beneficiarys drawdown 
arrangement means SL have to transfer investments in-specie into the beneficiarys plan. He 
says that where a beneficiary chooses to start a beneficiary drawdown arrangement with SL, 
the beneficiary would be accepting SLs terms, and he thinks these do allow in-specie 
transfers. I dont agree and I am not persuaded the representative has understood the terms 
and their application accurately.
Although I dont think some of the information is as clear as it could be, and I can understand 
why the representative has stressed in particular whats written on page one of the leaflet 
issued to Mrs C. However having looked at this and all versions of the terms (in particular at 
paragraph 14 of the 2020 terms) I dont conclude the thrust of this information is about how 
the death benefits are transferred to a plan in the beneficiarys name. I think it is explaining 
how drawdown can work once the funds are transferred into a plan in the beneficiarys 
name. In other words, how the fund representing the death benefits can be used to invest 
and then drawdown from.The representative doesnt accept it might be said the value of Mr Cs funds were protected 
through being sold, as he says they were sold at the height of the volatility at the time. As I 
hope the representative will appreciate market performance cannot be predicted. In addition 
when it comes to death benefits, a provider cannot reasonably be expected to know whether 
there might be complex issues or disputes when it comes to beneficial interests nor how long 
any issues may take to be resolved following death; nor indeed how the markets may be 
performing at any unknown time. 
So I dont consider it unreasonable or unusual for trustees to have a general approach and 
to ultimately retain a discretion. Nor is it unreasonable to sell investments on being informed 
of the customers death as a way to protect the value of a fund from future potential 
fluctuations in performance. It might be considered as fair as other potential approaches and 
might be beneficial in certain circumstances.
The representative has provided information that other SIPP providers have confirmed they 
would leave a fund invested on the death of the SIPP holder and await instruction from the 
nominated beneficiary. I accept that other providers may have a different approach. This 
does not make SLs approach unreasonable or wrong. 
I am sorry to hear its felt Mrs C was occasioned additional stress at what will have been a 
difficult time. I appreciate she may have needed to complete forms and take advice, this is 
unfortunately often part of the administrative burden that can accompany the death of 
someone close. 
For completeness
Ive seen information provided on how its said SL has acted for other clients of the 
representative. From what I have seen these were in different circumstances and can be 
distinguished from this matter on their facts. Ive seen what the representative says about 
this and understand he doesnt agree. 
Ultimately, we consider each case on its own merits and the main thrust of my conclusion is 
that SL have acted in accordance with the relevant terms and as such have done nothing 
wrong and have not acted unreasonably. Even if there was a situation where there might be 
a discretion to act differently, or where SL have acted differently, it doesnt change my 
thinking on this complaint. Here I dont consider SL have acted incompatibly or unreasonably 
in their exercise of their discretion or the terms of the plan here.
I appreciate my intended decision will be a disappointment to Mrs C, both in her role as a 
beneficiary and as an executor on behalf of Mr C, as well as the representative and the other 
potential beneficiaries. They are of course not bound to accept my decision and I have seen 
they may be intending to pursue matters elsewhere; that is a matter for them. Id like to 
reassure them that I have no ignored anything that has been said or provided, I have 
considered everything carefully.
There was one matter which I identified in the complainants further comments where they 
appeared unclear about the role and operation of this service. Ive also seen the 
representative considers he is entitled to further information. I wanted to provide a little 
further information which I hope might be of some assistance. There is more information 
available on our website including about what we do, our work and our funding model.
This service was set up by statute as a statutory dispute resolution scheme by the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (as amended). We work on a not-for-profit basis and in 
accordance with the rules set by the industry regulator, the Financial conduct Authority 
(FCA). At the time we were set up, Parliament decided that access to a free, independent dispute 
resolution service was essential for public confidence in financial services and that 
businesses, not their customers, should meet the costs of resolving complaints.
The financial businesses covered by our service and regulated by the FCA pay an annual 
levy collected by the FCA to contribute to our costs. Businesses pay the levy whether or not 
any complaints are made about them. The way we resolve complaints makes no difference 
to the funding we receive, and this helps to ensure our decision impartial, and I hope it helps 
to demonstrate that impartiality is at the centre of our approach. The representative notes in 
his more recent correspondence, that his firm one of the number, who are required by the 
regulator to pay the annual levy towards our costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding the complaint made on behalf of Mrs C, the estate 
of Mr C, nor any complaint properly brought by Mrs K or Mrs R against Standard Life 
Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C, Mrs K and 
Mrs R and the estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman