The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold him a home insurance policy alongside 
his mortgage in 1999.
What happened
Mr D applied for a mortgage through Barclays in 1999. It seems he took out a Barclays 
Household Insurance Policy, although it isnt clear when. Mr D said the policy was sold 
alongside his mortgage. 
Some years later, Mr D complained that the policy had been mis-sold to him. He says he 
wasnt told the policy was optional; the important policy limitations hadnt been explained to 
him and the price hadnt been properly set out.
Barclays said given the length of time thatd passed since the policy was sold and later 
cancelled, it didnt have any paperwork from the time. So Mr D asked us to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. Hed seen a copy of Mr Ds 
mortgage application form. He noted the application form gave applicants the option to 
choose yes or no to Barclays home insurance. Mr Ds form recorded TBA  so the 
investigator thought Mr D had been given some time to think about what he wanted to do. 
He noted the mortgage application form had been signed by Mr D. Barclays had also 
provided a product information checklist which suggested insurance had been discussed. 
The investigator thought Mr D had most likely been given a choice about taking out home 
insurance and had gone ahead.
Mr D disagreed. He provided an undated letter which said that to get a particular fixed 
interest rate, it was necessary to have Barclays Household Insurance. If the policy was 
cancelled during the fixed rate period, then the interest rate would increase by 0.2%. He 
maintained that he hadnt been told the policy was optional. He said the information checklist 
was simply a tick-box exercise by Barclays.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Barclays has 
treated Mr D fairly. Ill explain why.
Mr Ds mortgage and policy were sold to him over 20 years ago. So it isnt surprising that 
DRN-1724436theres only limited information available to show what happened at the time of sale. Mr D 
says he wasnt told the policy was optional and it wasnt properly explained to him. Ive 
looked at the evidence I do have from the time to decide whats most likely to have 
happened.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ds mortgage application form. This includes a section about home 
insurance. The form says that Barclays can arrange insurance on an applicants behalf. The 
form includes two tick boxes. The first says Yes, I would like you to arrange Homestages to 
protect my/our home. The second says No, I/we do not want my/our buildings insurance to 
be arranged by Barclays. Immediately underneath is a section for the details of alternative 
buildings cover to be set out if an applicant doesnt want buildings insurance through 
Barclays.
In my view, I think the application form makes it clear that a mortgage applicant does have a 
choice about whether to take out buildings insurance through Barclays. Ive seen that Mr Ds 
form says TBA next to this section, which suggests to me that insurance was discussed, 
and Mr D was going to go away and consider it. The same abbreviation was also recorded 
against the life assurance section of the form, which supports this view. I think this tends to 
suggest that Mr D was told the policy was optional. And that he chose to take it.
Mr D sent us a letter which says that a Barclays Household Insurance policy must be taken 
out to qualify for a fixed rate of 6.74% and that if the policy was cancelled during that period, 
the rate would revert to 6.94%. I accept that this letter suggests having home insurance 
through Barclays was a condition of getting a particular fixed rate. But this letter isnt dated. It 
isnt clear whether it relates to when Mr Ds original mortgage was applied for or if he later 
applied for a different mortgage product and rate. It also makes it clear that Mr D could 
cancel his policy and still have a mortgage through Barclays, just at a higher rate of interest.
So overall, Im satisfied its most likely Barclays did let Mr D know he didnt have to have its 
policy, and he chose to take it up at some point to take advantage of a fixed interest rate.
Ive also thought about what Mr Ds told us about not being given enough information about 
the policy to make an informed choice about it. I accept its possible Mr D wasnt given clear 
enough information about the things the policy did and didnt cover. 
But as the investigator explained, most if not all lenders will require a homeowner to take out 
buildings insurance to protect the property theyre buying. So Mr D would always have 
needed to take out buildings insurance through someone. And he hasnt been able to point 
to which bits of the policy he felt werent right for him or what he wouldve done differently if 
hed been given clearer information. So I havent seen enough to persuade me Mr D lost out 
because of the information he got about the policy.
All in all, I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong that it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.Lisa Barham
Ombudsman