DRN-4397035
The complaint
Mr S complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,
- refused to refund him for £360 which he paid into someone elses account; and
- closed his account.
Mr S wants £25,560 compensation from Halifax.
What happened
On 2 May 2023, Mr S used a deposit machine in a Halifax branch. He put in a debit card and 
paid in £360 cash.
Mr S then checked his account, but the £360 wasnt showing. He spoke to branch staff, and 
it turned out that Mr S had paid the money into someone elses account. Mr S is a taxi driver 
and he said a passenger had left their debit card in his car, and hed put it in his glovebox. It 
was that card which Mr S had accidentally used, instead of his own, to pay in the money.
The branch staff rang the owner of the card to ask for the money to be returned. They said 
they did that on a best endeavours basis  in other words, it couldnt be guaranteed.  The 
owner of the other card disputed what Mr S had said, and claimed that Mr S had stolen their 
card and had been using it to carry out transactions which they hadnt authorised. So they 
refused to pay the money back, and Halifax couldnt force them to do so.
Mr S wasnt happy about this, and Halifax branch staff said that he became very abusive. 
The branch decided to close Mr Ss account. On 4 May, it sent Mr S a letter. This said that 
following the incident in the branch, it would be closing Mr Ss account in 30 days. It said it 
was important that all its colleagues and customers feel safe and respected when working or 
banking with Halifax, so it took incidents like this very seriously and didnt accept any 
inappropriate behaviour that makes people feel threatened or uncomfortable. The letter told 
Mr S that he should make other arrangements for his banking with another provider.
Halifax closed Mr Ss account on 8 June, which was more than 30 days after the letter was 
sent.
Mr S complained about not getting the money back, and the closure.
In Halifaxs final response letters, it said that it had investigated and wasnt able to retrieve 
the money from the other account holder. It also said that it had closed Mr Ss account after 
an incident in the branch, where he had been abusive towards members of staff. Halifax said 
that the terms and conditions said that it could close an account without giving notice if you 
are or may be behaving improperly. This includes being abusive or threatening to our staff 
including abusive or threatening messages. Halifax said it had sent Mr S a letter when it 
had taken this action, to advise him about the closure.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said the money hed paid in didnt 
belong to the other customer and the branch manager had refused to help. Mr S said he had 
a lot of financial commitments each month through that bank account. He said that Halifax 
needed to pay him compensation. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said that Halifax had done all it could to 
recover the funds. And she said that having seen Halifaxs reasons for no longer wanting Mr 
S as a customer, she was satisfied that the decision was reasonable, and that Halifax had 
given Mr S 30 days notice.
Mr S wasnt satisfied. He said that the investigator had said Halifax could close an account 
with 30 days notice but Halifax hadnt given him 30 days notice.  He said that if hed had 
notice, he could have moved his bank account and then hed have gained a £200 bonus 
from the new bank. He also said that hed used his Halifax account for his business, and 
hed suffered losses as a result. He wanted compensation for this. 
Mr S said he wanted £360 refund of the cash hed paid in, plus £200 which hed have been 
able to get by switching his account if hed been given notice of the closure, plus £25,000 
compensation. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The £360 payment credited to the wrong account
The £360 payment was made by Mr S himself. He put the other persons credit card into the 
machine with the cash. So the payment wasnt made because of any error by Halifax. 
Ive considered whether Halifax made any errors in relation to trying to get the money back 
for Mr S. The Payment Services Regulations 2017 say that a payment service provider 
(here, Halifax) should take reasonable steps to recover funds that have been mistakenly 
applied to an account. Halifax contacted the receiving customer promptly. And that customer 
refused a refund, alleging that Mr S had stolen the card and that there had since been 
disputed transactions taking money out of their account. There are procedures to help 
customers who make payments in error  - but they dont apply where the recipient disputes 
what happened. In these circumstances, I cant say that Halifax acted wrongly. It had tried to 
retrieve the money in a reasonable timescale, but couldnt do so. So it doesnt have to refund 
Mr S with the £360.
Closure of Mr Ss account
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss account, to which hed have agreed when he opened the 
account, say:
We can end this agreement (or account, benefit or benefits package or service) without 
telling you in advance if we reasonably think that:
-there is or may be illegal or fraudulent activity connected to the account;
-you are or may be behaving improperly. This includes being abusive or threatening to 
our staff 
So under the terms and conditions, Halifax had the authority to close Mr Ss account 
immediately in these circumstances. But the evidence shows that in fact Halifax didnt close 
the account immediately. It sent Mr S a letter giving him 30 days notice. And the statements 
of Mr Ss account show that Halifax didnt close his account until 8 June, which was more 
than 30 days after it sent the letter. Mr S said he wanted to move his account and get £200 
for transferring. If he wanted to do this, I consider he could have done so when he received Halifaxs letter giving him notice.  It doesnt make any difference whether or not Mr S 
received the letter. The evidence shows Halifax sent it.  
Banks dont have to give a reason why they close a customers account. But here, Halifaxs 
final response to Mr S confirmed the reason for its decision to close the account with no 
notice. It said Your account was closed after an incident in branch where you had been 
abusive towards members of staff. This is outlined in your terms and conditions that we can 
close your account without telling you in advance if you are or may be behaving improperly. 
This includes being abusive of threatening to our staff or including abusive or threatening 
messages.
Halifax gave Mr S more notice than it had to under the terms and conditions of Mr Ss 
account. So I find that it did nothing wrong when it closed his account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman