DRN-3907678
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with how theyve been treated by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) in relation to their mortgage reaching the end of its term.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a residential mortgage with RBS on an interest only basis, in summer 
2002. The mortgage term was 19 years and so it was due to end in 2021. 
The mortgage was originally applied for on a buy-to-let (BTL) basis, but it looks like it 
couldnt be approved on that basis and was instead approved as a regular residential 
mortgage  albeit with someone else (a member of Mr and Mrs Ps family) living in the 
property.
Around July 2021, RBS notified Mr and Mrs P that the term had come to an end. 
Mr and Mrs P raised a number of concerns in relation to this. They initially complained that 
RBS insisted on contacting them about it over the phone when they only wanted to 
correspond by letter. They later raised concerns about the lack of contact from RBS in the 
lead up to the mortgage term coming to an end and about RBS insisting that an affordability 
assessment be carried out before any extension would be granted.
RBS issued two final response letters covering these issues  one dated 29 July 2021 and 
another sent on 27 October 2021. After initially rejecting all aspects of the complaints, RBS 
upheld the complaint about the lack of contact in the lead up to the mortgage term coming to 
an end. Associated to this, it said there had been a data breach and it offered Mr and Mrs P 
£300 to reflect what had happened.
In March 2022, Mr and Mrs P raised further concerns. In summary they complained that 
theyd sent income an expenditure information to RBS in late 2021, but that RBS had lost it. 
As Mr and Mrs P didnt have any record of the information theyd sent, they asked RBS to 
send them some more forms to complete. Mr and Mrs P say they never received them. 
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy that RBS then sent a formal demand notice in February 2022.
They didnt think this was appropriate given everything that had happened and had also
taken some correspondence theyd received from RBS about changes to the interest rate on
the mortgage as meaning that RBS had agreed to extend the term.
RBS didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that it hadnt received any income and
expenditure information from Mr and Mrs P and had informed them of that. It said it re-issued
the paperwork to Mr and Mrs P on 10 January 2022 and then didnt receive anything or hear
anything further. It said it was reasonable for it to have issued the formal demand when it did
and that it had tried unsuccessfully to contact Mr and Mrs P to discuss the matter, before
doing so.
Remaining unhappy, Mr and Mrs P referred their concerns to the Financial Ombudsman
Service. They referenced all of the complaint points raised with RBS, apart from the original
issue of RBS insisting on contacting them by phone.
I issued a provisional decision (PD) in December 2022. In it, I said that I didnt think I could 
look at a number of the issues raised by Mr and Mrs P, because they had been referred to 
us too late. These issues are being dealt with under a separate complaint reference.
In terms of the issues that I said I could consider, here is what I said in the PD:
.the issues I can consider (because theyve been referred to us in time), are
limited to the following:
- Mr and Mrs P say they sent income and expenditure information to RBS in late 2021 but 
that RBS lost it.
- Following this, RBS agreed to send another set of paperwork which RBS says it sent, but 
Mr and Mrs P didnt receive it.
- Mr and Mrs P didnt follow this up, because they subsequently received letters from RBS 
informing them of rate changes, which they took to mean RBS had agreed to extend the 
mortgage.
- Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that they received a formal demand for repayment of the
outstanding balance in early March 2022, some eleven days after the letter was dated. The 
letter required full repayment by the end of March 2022, giving them limited time to be able 
to make any arrangements.
In relation to the first two points, RBS says it didnt receive the information Mr and Mrs P say
they sent and that it did send Mr and Mrs P another set of paperwork in early January 2022.
Its not possible for me to be sure what happened here, but Mr and Mrs P say they didnt
receive something that they had been expecting. That being the case, I would reasonably
have expected them to have followed up with RBS about this.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P have said they received a letter from RBS in late January 
2022 informing them that their monthly mortgage payment amount would be changing and 
that they took this to mean RBS had agreed an extension to the mortgage.
However, Ive seen this letter (and subsequent similar ones) and they make no reference to
any kind of term extension having been agreed. So whilst Mr and Mrs P took the letters to
mean a certain thing, I dont think RBS gave Mr and Mrs P any kind of false impression.
In relation to RBS issuing Mr and Mrs P with a formal demand that they didnt receive until
11 days after the letter was dated (and thus giving them limited time to be able to make any
arrangements), RBS says it tried to contact Mr and Mrs P before sending the letter but 
hadnt been able to make contact. RBS contact notes show that someone did try to get in
touch with Mr and Mrs P before sending the formal demand.
RBS says it was reasonable for it to have issued a formal demand when it did, because it 
had been trying to agree something with Mr and Mrs P since September 2021 and was
following its normal process.
Its not clear why Mr and Mrs P received the formal demand much later than the date of the
letter, but in terms of it sending this correspondence when it did, I dont currently think this 
was unreasonable. I say this because RBS had been taking steps over a reasonable period
of time to get enough information to be able to consider a term extension. Having not
received that information, it was entitled to seek repayment in line with its normal process.Taking all of these things into account, I do not currently think I can reasonably conclude that
RBS has made an error in relation to the issues that I can consider.
As the mortgage term has now ended, RBS does have a right to ask for the mortgage to be
repaid. If Mr and Mrs P want to discuss and agree any further options with RBS, they will
need to engage with it to agree a way forwards..
I asked for any further evidence and/or arguments to be provided by 16 January 2023. RBS 
didnt provide a response. Mr and Mrs P did. In summary, they asked me to make a 
statement to RBS to do with its insistence on carrying out an affordability assessment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold any of the complaint points that were referred to us in time, 
for the same reasons as set out in the PD (which forms part of this decision). 
Neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments in relation to the complaint 
points that I can consider. As such, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
I still cant be sure what happened in terms of the correspondence Mr and Mrs P say they 
sent to RBS (that RBS says it didnt receive) or the correspondence RBS says it sent to 
Mr and Mrs P (that they say they didnt receive). I still consider that I would reasonably have 
expected Mr and Mrs P to have followed up with RBS about this.
I still find that RBS didnt give Mr and Mrs P any kind of false impression when it sent them a 
letter in late January 2022 (and similar ones after) notifying them of a change in the interest 
rate being applied to the mortgage. So although Mr and Mrs P took this to mean RBS had 
agreed a term extension, this wasnt the case. 
I also still find that it was reasonable for RBS to issue the formal demand letter when it did. I 
still consider that it had been taking steps over a reasonable period of time to be able to 
consider a term extension. Having not received that information, it was entitled to seek 
repayment in line with its normal process. 
There are therefore no grounds upon which I should uphold any of the complaint points that I 
can consider. As before, because the mortgage term has now ended, RBS does have a right 
to ask for the mortgage to be repaid. If Mr and Mrs P want to discuss and agree any further 
options with RBS, they will need to engage with it to agree a way forwards.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman