DRN-3539098
The complaint
Mr F says Nationwide Building Society has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on 
his credit card which paid for a cruise.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr F used his Nationwide Building Society (NBS for short) credit card to 
make a deposit payment for a cruise. They were due to sail in September 2020. Before the 
cruise was due to sail the cruise company started cancelling cruises and Mr F became 
concerned about that and the pandemic. So Mr F started reviewing the cruise company 
website. Mr F says he saw a page of the website about getting vouchers in relation to their 
booking. Mr F says he considered that and followed the link on the page about vouchers. Mr 
F says that a couple of days later he received a cancellation notice and information about 
the voucher hed receive. Mr F is adamant that he didnt cancel the booking.
Mr F complained to the cruise company and then NBS. In the meantime restrictions eased 
and cruises started sailing. So Mr F used the voucher to book another cruise. But the 
pandemic changed course and impact and this second cruise was cancelled. So the current 
state of play is that Mr F has a voucher now with an indefinite usage period, but hed rather 
exchange it for cash as he says he didnt cancel the original cruise.
Mr F was unsuccessful in his dealings with the cruise company to get cash rather than the 
voucher. So he complained to NBS. NBS looked into the matter and concluded that Mr F did 
cancel the cruise and so wouldnt be refunded under either chargeback or under S75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. So Mr F, still unsatisfied, brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt NBS didnt have to do anymore. And Mr F remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F used his NBS credit card to pay for the cruise. This means that if certain criteria are 
met NBS can have certain responsibilities to Mr F which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary in certain 
circumstances Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr F to hold NBS liable for breaches of 
contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In essence NBS 
can be held responsible for a like claim against the supplier.
Also Mr Fs NBS credit card is part of a card network which is operated by another company. 
And this network has rules which includes giving NBS an avenue for card transactions to be 
disputed with Merchants, namely through the Chargeback process. I should add that this 
isnt a consumer right and that NBS isnt the final arbiter of the process here-the network is. 
But I do consider raising a chargeback to be good practice where there is a reasonable 
prospect of success.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about NBS and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr F fairly. This decision isnt about cruise 
company, which isnt within this Services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and 
S75. I hope this distinction is clear.
could NBS challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr F does 
here, NBS can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mr F doesnt dispute that he 
used his NBS credit card here. Nor does he dispute the amount, date, or any other details 
about the transaction itself. So I dont think NBS couldve challenged the payment on the 
basis Mr F didnt properly authorise the transaction, given what Ive just set out.
NBS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
NBS didnt raise a chargeback because it felt that Mr F had cancelled and accordingly it felt 
any chargeback didnt have a reasonable prospect of success. I dont think Mr F has lost out 
because of what NBS did and Ill explain why. And I should note that the issue Im about to 
analyse is the crux of this entire complaint and is decisive in relation to S75 also.
This service has access to technology which allows evidence regarding previous iterations of 
website pages to be accessed and viewed. Mr F says he didnt cancel he followed the pages 
in order to see further information about the voucher that was mentioned. Clearly the cruise 
company feel that Mr F did cancel.
So what did Mr F see?
Through our investigations is the wording that Mr F saw when he was on the website at the 
time in May 2020.
By completing this form you understand that you are opting in to receive an Onboard Credit 
for (the % value) of the total value of the (type of cruise) purchases on your reservation.
This offer is only valid for guests impacted by the extension of our global suspension 
announced on April 16th, 2020. All requests completed for sailings that do not qualify for this 
offer will be declined and will not be actioned.
After this wording the person viewing the page is then given a list of options to select in 
terms of types of cruise and then the credit (voucher) is processed.
Mr Fs says that after logging in he received notification of the cancellation. He says he 
responded by:
My wife and I emailed (the company) immediately explaining that we were enquiring about 
(the voucher) and in no way were we applying to cancel our cruise.
Ive considered the wording carefully. And it certainly could have been clearer. However it 
would be unreasonable for anyone seeing that wording to conclude that they were getting a 
voucher and keeping their cruise. In essence getting double benefit. It also clear that the 
person reading is being asked to take an option, the wording opting being key here. And by 
being asked to take an option that makes clear a choice is to be made. And the option evidently is between taking the voucher (and the consequences of that) or not taking the 
voucher (and the consequences of that). As Ive described it would be unreasonable to 
consider this to mean double benefit. So although it is not expressly stated Im satisfied on 
balance of probabilities that cancellation of the cruise for the option of the voucher is clear. 
Considering Mr Fs comments directly which in essence say that he was only gathering 
information, I am not persuaded he can reasonably argue that he was unaware he was 
being asked to take an option here. 
Mr F says by entering the (voucher) link we were automatically given (the voucher) and the 
cruise was cancelled. Im satisfied this wasnt the case. After reading the wording above to 
get the voucher a selection had to be made between five different cruise options (essentially 
selecting the type of arrangement in place). Having considered this page carefully Im not 
persuaded Mr F could have got the cancellation notification without making a selection as 
described at that point. On balance Im satisfied Mr F saw the wording above and then made 
a selection. Im not persuaded by Mr Fs comments on this issue. Mr F says we were forced 
into something without an option. On balance I think Mr F did take an option here by making 
a selection of the type of arrangements in place after seeing the wording. I think Mr F could 
have read the wording and not selected and left the page if hed wished.
Clearly both the cruise company and NBS could have been clearer on this important issue 
as to their rationale. However I am satisfied Mr F took the option of the voucher knowing it 
wasnt in addition to his booked cruise. So although NBS could have been clearer and might 
not have properly considered this nuance sufficiently I dont think it makes a difference. 
I find that had NBS pursued the chargeback to the end of the process on balance Mr F 
would not have been successful. Accordingly I dont think Mr F has lost out as a result of this 
decision not to raise a chargeback on this transaction.
Mr F elected to take the voucher and as a consequence that is a fair resolution to the 
chargeback. I see that there was a later booking and cancellation by Mr F using the voucher. 
As Mr F cancelled that and continues to have a voucher I dont think hes lost out there 
either.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Fs claim meets the financial limits criteria. Another test in the CCA for a 
valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place. Im not 
persuaded by the Investigators comments on this matter. However I dont need to make a 
finding on this point because for other reasons I have decided that NBS doesnt need to do 
anymore. 
For NBS to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that the 
supplier either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Mr F which 
was untrue and that his fair reliance on that untruth led to loss.
For the same reasons as Ive given Im satisfied Mr F opted to take the voucher to replace 
the cruise hed booked. Mr F has recently explained the voucher is valid indefinitely and he 
is still in possession of it. So although the original contract was varied this was agreed by Mr 
F opting for the voucher. So there is no breach or misrepresentation here.
Mr F may argue that the voucher process was unclear. And I certainly think it could have 
been clearer. But NBS can only be held responsible under S75 if breach of contract or material misrepresentation is made out. Ive found no breach here. But Ive not found 
persuasive evidence of Mr F being told something that was untrue which he reasonably 
relied on which caused him detriment. Omission is not misrepresentation and NBS can only 
be on the hook for breach or misrepresentation.
It should also be remembered that the only reason NBS is potentially liable is due to this 
legislation Ive described. If the legislation wasnt in place then NBS wouldnt have such 
potential liability for the cruise (it would have obligations around Chargeback but that isnt 
nearly as extensive in terms of protection to the consumer). So it is key that if I am to hold 
NBS liable, the tests required under the CCA must be met such as breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. And Im satisfied it isnt made out here.
Lastly I should add that Mr F has made comments along the lines of expecting NBS to do 
more to support them and at least challenged the cruise company. In these situations NBS 
is obliged to treat consumers fairly. It is not required to represent them or act on their behalf 
as Mr F appears to suggest.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr F wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr Fs avenues for recouping these significant funds spent here will be 
significantly limited. But this does not mean that NBS has caused him loss. Or that it should 
refund him.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr F has said, Im not persuaded 
NBS has treated Mr F unfairly or that he has to do any more. And as a consequence Ive 
decided that Mr Fs complaint shouldnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman