DRN-3597004
The complaint
Mr G complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted unfairly when it closed his 
credit card account. 
What happened
Mr G says he received a letter from NatWest in March 2022, informing him his credit card 
account would be closed in seven days, but when he telephoned them to discuss matters, 
he was informed the account had already been closed two days earlier than the letter stated. 
Mr G says NatWests member of staff informed him an earlier letter had been regarding the 
persistent debt on the account in January 2022, but Mr G says he never received this letter, 
or any credit card statements since September 2021. Mr G says NatWest have refused to 
give him the 60 days notice to make arrangements it had agreed to in the letter in January 
2022, bearing in mind he never received it, and furthermore it shouldnt have closed his 
credit card account before he had the opportunity to discuss a way forward with them. 
Mr G says he wants NatWest to reinstate his credit card account. 
NatWest says it followed its persistent debt (PD) process correctly, in line with the guidance 
given by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and while it was sorry Mr G hadnt received 
the 36-month PD letter, it wasnt responsible for its non -receipt. NatWest says it would have 
only allowed the account to remain active if Mr G could have satisfied them the balance 
could have been fully repaid within six months. NatWest have apologised for the fact Mr G 
was misinformed his credit card was still open and that it had been closed earlier than the 
seven days letter in March 2022 indicated and paid him £50 for any inconvenience that 
caused him. 
Mr G wasnt happy with NatWests response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt although Mr G said he never received the PD36 letter in January 2022, it had 
been correctly sent to the address held on NatWests records and he couldnt hold them 
responsible for its non-receipt. While the investigator accepted Mr G hadnt been receiving 
credit card statements from September 2021, as these had been withheld following a return 
on mail, he felt Mr G would still have been aware of his financial position and that he was still 
in persistent debt and what the consequences of that might be from earlier correspondence 
NatWest had sent him. 
The investigator pointed out although Mr Gs credit card account had been closed two days 
earlier than the closure letter dated March 2022 indicated, Mr G wouldnt have been able to 
use his credit card in any event as it had been restricted since September 2021. The 
investigator felt NatWests decision not to reopen the credit card account was reasonable. 
The investigator recommended Mr G contacts the PD team at NatWest to discuss a way 
forward. The investigator felt the £50 compensation NatWest paid was fair and reasonable. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr G to have been told his credit card 
account had been closed before he had an opportunity to discuss his proposals with 
NatWest. When looking at this complaint I will consider if NatWest acted reasonably when it 
refused to reopen Mr Gs credit card account, given it closed it two days earlier than it had 
stated in a letter it had sent seven days previously and if it was at fault for Mr G not receiving 
the 36 month persistent debt letter it sent in January 2022.
Its worth explaining that persistent debt (PD) is when a consumer has paid more in interest, 
fees and charges than theyve repaid towards the capital they owe. In those circumstances 
banks like NatWest have an obligation to contact its customers whose accounts fall within 
this definition, initially after 18 months, then at 27 and 36 months to bring it to their attention 
and provide available options.
Mr Gs complaint centres around the fact that NatWest, having sent a letter to him in March 
2022 stating he needed to contact them within seven days, had already closed his credit 
card account before that deadline, therefore not allowing him the opportunity to discuss his 
options with them. Additionally, Mr G says he never received an earlier letter NatWest says it 
sent him in January 2022, regarding the PD on his credit card account and the options 
available to him. Having seen a copy of that 36-month persistent debt letter it gave Mr G two 
options. Firstly, he could repay the outstanding borrowing withing six months which was in 
excess of £11,000 and retain the use of the credit card, or secondly to agree an affordable 
payment plan over several years, but this would result in the credit card being closed. 
Mr G has made the point he never received the 36-month persistent debt (PD) letter sent 
from NatWest in January 2022, although a letter sent by them to the same address giving Mr 
G seven days-notice in March 2022, was received by him. So, with that in mind I cant say 
NatWest can be held responsible for the PD36 letter not being received, thats not saying Mr 
G did receive it, in all likelihood given the postal disruptions at that time he may not have, but 
NatWest can only send such notifications to the registered address it has on file, and it did 
that here.  
Its also fair to say Mr G would have received earlier letters regarding the PD on his credit 
card account in July 2020 and April 2021 which did highlight the potential consequences of 
being in PD, including the closure of his credit card account. So while Mr G suggests those 
earlier letters from  NatWest didnt say it would definitely take that course of action, there 
was a responsibility on his part to contact NatWest to be clear what was expected of him - 
but here I cant see he ever did that until he was informed his credit card account was being 
closed. 
Its fair to say Mr G would have been aware he needed to pay more than the minimum direct 
debit sum each month to take him out of PD. I say this as apart from the earlier PD 18 month 
and 27-month letters he was sent, his credit card statements suggests he elected to pay an 
extra £1 per  month to his credit card account. So, while Mr G was aware he needed to take 
some action to prevent his credit card account staying in PD, it was unlikely £12 per annum 
would have been sufficient to do that. Its not clear why Mr G chose not to contact NatWest knowing the PD issues, especially given he hadnt been receiving his credit card statements 
since September2021 as the September statement had been returned. 
From the information provided to this service from NatWest it suggests Mr G had access to 
his credit card statements online, which would have made clear his PD situation hadnt 
changed materially. Its not clear if Mr G chose to view his statements this way or not, but its 
fair to say without doing so or speaking to NatWest, it would have been difficult for him to 
budget for his minimum payment each month. Its also fair to say given Mr G hadnt been 
receiving statements it would have been reasonable to expect him to contact NatWest to ask 
why, especially taking into account the PD position on his account and the amount owing.
While I understand NatWest closed Mr Gs credit card account two days early and that 
wasnt handled very well by them, it has apologised and paid Mr G £50 in compensation for 
that. That said I cant see the extra couple of days here would have in all likelihood made 
any difference to the outcome. I say this as Mr G was looking for a further 60 days to decide 
which of the PD36 letter options he wanted to take, and I am satisfied given NatWest had 
correctly sent the letter back in January 2022, albeit not received by him, that wouldnt have 
been something NatWest would have been obliged to agree to. 
In a telephone call in March 2022, the advisor from NatWest does agree to reopen the credit 
card account even then, if Mr G could repay the card over six months, but Mr G didnt seem 
to want to consider that option at the time, which unfortunately was the only way he could 
have kept the credit card account open. 
NatWests process here was under the guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority, and 
its not for me to say it must now agree to reopen the credit card account, even if Mr G didnt 
receive the PD 36 letter back in January 2022, after all it had been sent to the correct 
address it held on file. With that in mind the way forward here is for Mr G and NatWest to 
agree an affordable payment plan going forward.  
While Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, I feel this is a fair outcome and I wont be 
asking anymore of NatWest here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman