DRN-2252408
The complaint
Mr C complains that Black Horse Limited acted unfairly in retracting an offer to modify a 
financial agreement by re-financing the outstanding final repayment (balloon payment), due 
at the end of a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP).
This complaint has been brought to this service on Mr Cs behalf by his son but, for ease of 
reference, I shall refer only to Mr C as it was his agreement with Black Horse.
What happened
In November 2016 Mr C entered into a three-year PCP for a new car with Black Horse. At 
the end of the agreement Mr C was able to choose to either return the car to the dealership, 
use it as part-exchange for another car or pay the outstanding final payment (the balloon 
payment) and keep it. The balloon payment fell due in December 2019.
In September 2019 Black Horse wrote to Mr C advising the agreement was coming to an 
end and outlining his options. Two further letters providing the same information were sent in 
November and the start of December 2019.
Mr C contacted Black Horse and said he would like to keep the car but couldnt clear the 
whole of the balloon payment in one payment. Black Horse sent Mr C, by post, a quote to 
refinance the outstanding sum with a new credit agreement for a further five-years. 
At the end of December 2019 Mr C contacted Black Horse and said he and his family would 
be going away, but he would sign and return the necessary paperwork when he got back in 
January 2020.
Mr C says that he didnt receive the financial documents from Black Horse and so he made 
contact in January 2020 asking for a further copy to be sent. 
In February 2020 Mr C contacted Black Horse who says Mr C confirmed that he had now got 
the refinance agreement. Mr C told Black Horse that he was in discussion with the 
dealership to see if a better deal could be arranged. 
There was no further contact until the third week of March 2020, when Mr C contacted Black 
Horse to ask if he could pay a lump sum towards the balloon payment and arrange credit for 
the remaining amount. Black Horse told Mr C that the refinance offer had now been retracted 
as three months had passed and it was now too late for an agreement to be arranged.
Mr C complained to Black Horse about its decision to withdraw the offer to refinance. He 
said Black Horse hadnt said there was a time limit on signing the agreement and that, in 
light of the COVID19 situation, it would be fair to extend the offer as there were problems 
making contact.
Black Horse didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said that it accepted that COVID19 had meant 
that there was a higher volume of calls with fewer staff to deal with them, but Mr C had been 
given three months to sign and return the offer to refinance. It said Mr C had been given 
adequate time to decide how to proceed. The balloon payment had been due in December 
2019. 
Mr C was unhappy at Black Horses response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He said that, although 
Black Horse hadnt set out there was a time limit in which to complete and return the 
refinancing paperwork, he thought that Mr C had been given a reasonable and fair amount of 
time in which to decide. Our investigator said he didnt think Black Horse had acted unfairly 
in retracting the offer.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view. He said that he had tried several times to make 
contact with Black Horse but had been unable to get through. Mr C says that he feels he is 
due to compensation for the way Black Horse has treated him.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the copies of letters sent to Mr C by Black Horse, the agreement and the contact 
notes provided by Black Horse for Mr Cs account I cant reasonably say Mr C wasnt aware 
of the options open to him when his PCP ended. Nor can I say he wouldnt have been aware 
of when the PCP ended and the date the balloon payment fell due.
Ive seen Mr C contacted Black Horse to make enquiries about how he could keep the car in 
December 2019. Black Horse offered to refinance the vehicle and sent out the relevant 
paperwork. I appreciate this wasnt received by Mr C and he had to request it was sent 
again, but I have seen he confirmed its receipt during his call with Black Horse in mid-
February 2020. Black Horse says it also told Mr C that he needed to return the refinancing 
agreement as the balloon payment was now two months overdue during this call.
Looking at the refinancing agreement sent to Mr C Ive seen this sets out that it will 
commence in February 2020. And I think its reasonable to have expected Mr C to have read 
this agreement when he received it.
Mr Cs next contact with Black House was around five weeks later in the third week of March 
2020. I appreciate Mr C says he had difficulty contacting Black Horse due to COVID19, and 
that Black Horse agrees there were issues at that time, but I think its fair I also take into 
account the amount of time that had by then passed.  And that Mr C still had the car in his 
possession and was using it. 
While Ive seen that no set date was given to Mr C in which to complete and return the 
refinancing agreement, I dont think it would be reasonable to have assumed that it was 
open ended. I think, notwithstanding there was a delay in receiving the refinance 
documentation, and a period when Mr C was away in January 2020, that overall Black Horse 
gave Mr C ample time to decide what he wanted to do. I cant reasonably say that Black 
Horse acted unfairly in retracting its offer to refinance when it did. Black Horse was entitled 
to make this decision.
So, for the reasons given above, I disagree with Mr C that Black Horse should pay him 
compensation for retracting the offer when it did. I think Black Horse acted fairly by providing 
the time that it had for Mr C to accept or reject its offer to refinance. I cant say its decision to retract the offer when it did was unreasonable in the circumstances. Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 05 May 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman