DRN-3236562
The complaint
Mr L, in his capacity as trustee of the L Trust, complains that Integrated Financial 
Arrangements LTD (trading as Transact) caused delays to the investment of trust funds.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs L are trustees of the L trust, which was set up in 2008 as a result of a personal 
injury settlement for the benefit of their son.
In November 2020 Mr Ls independent financial adviser (IFA) sent an application and 
supporting documents to Transact to open a trust investment portfolio and an onshore bond.
The accounts were opened on 8 December 2020 and the investments were placed by T, 
the investment manager, on 9 and 11 December 2020.
Mr L complained in December 2020 as he believed that Transact had delayed the opening of 
the accounts by several days, and as a result, the trust had lost out on investment growth on 
the funds. Mr L said he was aware that the documents sent by his IFA by post had been 
redirected, because Transact had temporarily relocated as a result of the pandemic. Mr L 
thought Transact shouldve told his IFA so he couldve posted the documents directly to the 
correct office site and avoided the delay.
Transact didnt uphold the complaint. It said the post redirection hadnt caused a delay 
because Mr Ls IFA hadnt submitted the correct trust documents and it didnt receive 
everything it needed until 8 December 2020. Transact said the accounts had been opened at 
the earliest opportunity.
Mr L referred his concerns to our service. His IFA added that he had already provided 
Transact with the correct documents in August 2020 when he had first enquired about 
opening the account for the trustees.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Transact couldve opened the 
accounts any earlier than 8 December 2020. So, Mr L asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Although the trustees IFA sent documents to Transact by post on 30 November 2020, I note 
that the IFA also uploaded the same documents through Transacts online portal on 
3 December 2020. Mr L says that the documents posted wouldve reached Transact by 
1 December 2020 if they had been given the correct address because they were sent by 
recorded delivery. But Im not persuaded thats the case. The postal service was significantly 
disrupted by the pandemic and there wouldve also been additional delays associated with 
the festive period. So, I dont think its likely the documents posted to Transact wouldve 
reached it any earlier than 3 December 2020, when the documents were uploaded online. 
For this reason, I think the issue of Transact redirecting post hasnt actually had any impact.
Transact reviewed the documents that had been uploaded on 4 December 2020. And on the 
same day it informed the IFA that he needed to provide the correct certified trust deed from 
2008. This was returned by the IFA on 7 December 2020. But while he provided a copy of 
the 2008 deed, he didnt include the supplemental deed from 2012 which provided for the 
retirement and replacement of an original trustee. This meant that the trustees named in the 
application form received by Transact didnt match the trustees named in the 2008 deed that 
it had been sent. Transact informed the IFA about this on 8 December 2020 and he provided 
a copy of the 2012 deed later that day. Transact subsequently opened the accounts.
Mr Ls IFA has said that he provided Transact with the correct trust documents in advance of 
the application, in August 2020. So, he believes that Transact had everything it needed to 
open the accounts straight away. But Ive seen the email exchange between the IFA and 
Transact, and Transact told the IFA he would need to upload or post both of the certified 
trust documents. It also pointed out an issue with a missing page in the 2008 deed. So, 
I think Transact made the IFA aware that hed need to send those documents with the 
application, despite Transact having had sight of them before. The application form 
submitted also made it clear that certified trust deeds had to be provided.
I also note that in August 2020 the IFA had emailed a business development manager at 
Transact, not the new business processing team. No application had been made at that 
point, and there wasnt any guarantee one would be made. So, I wouldnt expect the details 
of the documents shared by the IFA to be retained or associated with the later application.
Overall, Im satisfied Transact dealt with the trustees application promptly and opened the 
accounts at the earliest opportunity on 8 December 2020. So, I dont think it caused a loss.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L as trustee of 
the L Trust to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman