DRN-2699916
The complaint
Ms C complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc failed to look after her best 
interests when the markets became volatile as a result of Coronavirus. It took a week for it to 
send out a standard letter and failed to offer bespoke advice about how to protect her 
money, something it was fully aware was crucial given her current circumstances and needs.
What happened
Ms C said St Jamess sent out a generic Investor Briefing on 29 February (six days after the 
widespread knowledge of Coronavirus) which didnt offer any negative information or 
personally-dovetailed advice. It made no proactive effort to contact her to discuss her 
portfolio and situation, something she believes it was required to do according to its charter 
and promises.
An investigator at this service did not feel Ms Cs complaint should be upheld, saying:
He noted that Ms C had raised various concerns, including the level of risk posed by 
her portfolio, but said this decision was solely dealing with the complaint about not 
being informed more quickly about the potential impact of Coronavirus and not being 
offered proactive advice about how to protect her money from market falls
He didnt believe St Jamess couldve predicted the impact of Coronavirus and the 
necessary impact of investments
Investment performance was not something this service could consider, apart from 
the issue of the level of risk of an investment and whether any guarantees had been 
offered
In this case, St Jamess could not be held responsible for market volatility as a result 
of Coronavirus
Ms C did not agree, and said:
Her St Jamess advisor was 100% aware of her age, intentions and needs regarding 
an imminent house purchase. After assessing her circumstances, the advisor agreed 
to reset her risk level as medium. Following this debacle, she found it had actually 
been set to a higher level (medium-high) which she had to get involved in to resolve
St Jamess would know if/when the market is particularly volatile regardless of the 
cause
So it is completely reasonable to expect her advisor to make contact so she
could decide whether to ride the storm or withdraw funds, especially as she knew 
my circumstances and imminent house purchase
She had an offer accepted on a property which they then had to revoke due to the 
loss caused by her advisor not looking after her needs
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I need to confirm that I have solely considered the issue of what St Jamess ought 
reasonably to have done when news of the Coronavirus broke early in 2020. This was the 
sole subject which Ms C brought to this service in her original Complaint Letter and one 
which St Jamess and the investigator has considered. So, I have not considered the various 
issues relating to her pension, tax coding, administration failings etc; nor the question of 
whether her portfolio was too risky.
Having considered the issue at stake, I have come to the same conclusions as the 
investigator and for the same reasons.
While Ms C may have been paying for ongoing advice, this did not mean her advisor was 
responsible for assessing the suitability of her portfolio on a daily basis as various news 
events impacted, or potentially impacted, on market fluctuations. This, in my view, is not a 
reasonable expectation and I have seen nothing to suggest St Jamess committed to such a 
service.
I also think it was entitled to make its own judgement about the potential impact of wider 
events on the stock market and clients portfolios. It is not for this service to adjudge how 
successful its assessments were and whether its predictions  with hindsight  proved 
correct. In its letter of 28 February, it essentially concluded that the impact of Coronavirus 
was hard to predict; and customers should consider their long-term goals. I cannot agree 
that such a statement was manifestly wrong or inappropriate advice.
If Ms C intended to withdraw a large amount of her money imminently, then she could have 
called her advisor immediately to explore whether  in her circumstances  she should take 
instant action. I do not believe the advisor was obliged to call her.
I have considered Ms Cs comments about her specific situations (having sold the family 
home and keen to make a new purchase) and I note that the advisor disputes a number of 
the points Ms C made (saying Ms C had specifically said she would not needed to draw on 
her investments for the proposed new joint purchase). Either way, this issue doesnt alter my 
view about the advisors or St Jamess responsibilities. Crucially, I have seen no persuasive 
evidence to indicate that St Jamess failed to meet its written commitments, including any 
reasonable interpretation of them.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman