DRN-3542379
The complaint
Mr R complains that he couldnt complete a balance transfer from a new credit card with 
Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as Virgin Money (Virgin).
What happened
In January 2022, Mr R opened a new credit card account with Virgin. He already had a credit 
card with Virgin and wanted to transfer the balance from it to the new card with a 0% 
balance transfer offer. Virgin wouldnt allow this to happen. Instead, he then made a money 
transfer and incurred a fee of £59.94. Virgin refunded the fee.
Mr R complained. He said he shouldve been made aware that he couldnt use the new card  
for the balance transfer - at the time of his application for it. As a result, he had to close the 
second Virgin credit card account and open another one with another bank. This meant his 
credit score had been affected. He also said he wasnt aware that the money transfer would 
be charged at 4%.
Virgin said the terms and conditions on their website said that a balance transfer couldnt be 
made to a new account from an existing Virgin card (or any other Clydesdale Bank group 
cards). Mr R confirmed he had read the terms as part of the application process. As an 
alternative to a balance transfer, the money transfer option was available  and this said the 
fee was 4%. This gave a fee of £59.94  which they subsequently refunded to Mr Rs credit 
card account. Virgin agreed that this refund shouldve been made to Mr Rs bank account 
and not the credit card account, corrected that, and paid compensation of £75.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Virgin acted reasonably. It was stated 
on Virgins website that a balance transfer couldnt be made between Virgin accounts. It 
wasnt Virgins fault that Mr R didnt see that.  The terms of the money transfer were also 
made clear on the website. The compensation paid by Virgin was a fair way to resolve Mr 
Rs complaint.
Mr R asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Rs complaint is that Virgin should have made him aware that he couldnt 
make a balance transfer to his new Virgin credit card from his existing one  he wanted to 
take advantage of the 0% balance transfer offer, and I can appreciate what he was wanting 
to do.
But Ive looked at Virgins terms and conditions for the new card  and these say, You 
cannot transfer a balance to this account from another card issued by usYou should not 
use your card to repay other borrowing from us.
And more importantly, these terms and conditions are on Virgins website  as part of the 
application process. Virgin say Mr R was directed to them and was asked to click he 
accepted them. 
And so  Mr R shouldve been aware of the terms of the new card, and that a balance 
transfer wasnt possible to it from his existing Virgin card. I cant in all fairness hold Virgin 
responsible for that  if Mr R didnt read the terms. 
And  Virgins policy of not allowing a balance transfer from another Virgin card is a 
commercial decision for Virgin to take  I cant challenge that.
I can also see that the terms of the money transfer were for a fee of 4% - and Mr R was 
charged £59.94. So  he shouldve been aware of that also. But in any case, Virgin refunded 
the charge. There was some confusion here in that Mr R says it should have been refunded 
to his bank account, but Virgin paid it to his credit card account. In any case, Virgin put that 
right and paid compensation of £75. I think that was a reasonable thing to do to resolve Mr 
Rs complaint.
And so, having reviewed Mr Rs complaint again, I wont be asking Virgin to do anymore 
here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman