DRN-2518212
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about not being provided with freedom to choose his own firm of 
solicitors in a legal expenses insurance claim funded by Society of Lloyds (Lloyds). Hes 
also unhappy about the general handling of that claim by the firm appointed by Lloyds.
All references to Lloyds include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr H made a claim on his Lloyds legal expenses insurance policy for cover in relation to a 
dispute he had with his neighbour in respect of land he felt his neighbour was seeking to sell 
that belonged to him.
Lloyds appointed a panel firm of solicitors to act for Mr H in respect of his claim. After 
looking into the details of the case, this firm shared a report to say whether Mr Hs claim had 
the requisite prospects of success, which was a condition of the insurance cover. 
The report concluded that prospects of Mr H succeeding in a claim in damage against his 
neighbour didnt meet the threshold set out by the policy wording, but if he could produce 
supportive evidence of the location of the boundary then he might have a claim to the land in 
question, which would enable him to have it removed from his neighbours sale of the 
property. The panel firm asked Lloyds for funding to carry out a survey to establish this.
There was a delay in the panel firm pursuing things any further, largely because they were 
awaiting confirmation of funding for the surveyor from Lloyds. Mr H complained to Lloyds 
about this delay. He said that the delay had caused his claim to fail. This was based on 
advice from the panel firm that raising a dispute with his neighbour later might prompt a 
counterclaim in trespass against Mr H, which he would lose. The act of trespass in this 
complaint is said to have happened after the panel solicitors request for funding was made.
Lloyds apologised to Mr H and paid him £100 in compensation for the delay in providing 
authority to the panel firm. But they didnt agree their actions had led Mr Hs claim to fail. Mr 
H made a complaint about this to our Service. One of our investigators concluded that 
Lloyds actions hadnt caused Mr Hs claim to fail and that their offer of £100 was enough to 
compensate him for their delay in providing authority to fund a surveyor.
Following this complaint, a survey was carried out, funded by Lloyds. Upon receiving this 
report, the panel firm said that Mr H was unlikely to succeed in his dispute with his 
neighbour. So Mr H chose to settle the dispute.
In this present complaint, Mr H says that Lloyds didnt give him the freedom to choose his 
own solicitor from the outset and had he done so, he wouldnt find himself in the position 
hes currently in. He feels his own choice of solicitors would have advised him to settle the 
dispute without the need for a survey. 
Another one of our investigators considered this new complaint and concluded that it 
shouldnt be upheld. He said that Mr H didnt have the freedom to choose his own solicitors 
at the point which the panel firm were instructed so Lloyds didnt do anything wrong.
Mr H made some further submissions in response to that investigators view, which have 
been addressed by the investigator who dealt with the other complaint Ive mentioned above. 
Thats because the investigator who gave his view on this present complaint has now left 
this Service. Because Mr H doesnt agree with what the investigators have said about this 
present complaint, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Freedom of choice
Ive been provided with a copy of Mr Hs policy. It says:
Unless there is a conflict of interest, you agree to use the appointed advisor chosen by us in 
any claim
Falling under the jurisdiction of the small claims court and/or
Prior to the issue of proceedings.
Its common for legal expenses insurance policies to contain such a term and its consistent 
with the relevant laws applicable to freedom of choice. Regulation 6 of the Insurance 
Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 says: 
where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or other 
person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or serve the 
interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be free to choose that 
lawyer (or other person)
The phrase any inquiry or proceedings means when it becomes necessary to issue court 
proceedings, or proceedings in another formal place of inquiry, such as a tribunal. 
Mr Hs claim has never been litigated. That means proceedings have never been issued. 
And in the absence of anything to suggest that there was a conflict of interest in appointing 
the panel firm, I cant see that he had freedom to choose his own solicitor at any point during 
his claim with Lloyds. Because of this, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong by not 
offering him the option to instruct his own solicitors as he wasnt entitled to this, either in 
accordance with the policy terms, or as a matter of law. 
Mr H has referred to EEC legislation which he believes entitles him to the freedom to choose 
his own solicitor. We dont interpret EEC legislation in that way and in any event, as our 
investigator explained, whilst we take into account the law when deciding complaints of this 
nature, we arent bound by it. Ive set out the law we have regard to above, which accords 
with our approach to such cases.
Dissatisfaction with the panel firmAs our investigators explained, Im not able to comment on the actions of the panel firm in 
relation to whether a survey shouldve been conducted in relation to the disputed land 
because that concerns the actions of a firm of solicitors. Thats not something I can consider. 
Firms of solicitors have their own regulator and complaints procedures and are independent 
of insurers. If Mr H remains unhappy with the actions of the panel firm, he should address 
this with those solicitors directly, and then the Legal Ombudsman if hes still dissatisfied.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Society of Lloyds
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman