DRN-3244786
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that AWP P&C SA (AWP) declined his travel insurance claim.
Mr S is represented in bringing this complaint by his father, but for ease of reference, Ill refer 
to any submissions as being made by Mr S personally. 
What happened
Mr S purchased a single trip travel insurance policy on 14 February 2020 to cover his travel 
abroad between 2 July 2020 and 9 July 2020. 
On 17 March 2020, the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO 
formerly known as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but 
essential international travel. Mr S therefore cancelled his trip.
Mr S submitted a claim to AWP to recover his cost for the accommodation he booked. AWP 
assessed the claim and declined it. They said Mr S had been provided with a reasonable 
alternative as the accommodation provider had offered him to re-book at another time. So, 
AWP considered the cost to be recoverable.
Unhappy with AWPs response, Mr S brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She explained she didnt think the 
offer of re-booking meant the loss had been recovered. She said the trip had been booked 
for a special birthday occasion with friends who had various commitments. She also said 
that Mr S had contacted the accommodation provider recently about the offer but received 
no response.
AWP disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They said 
Mr S was offered an alternative which he didnt want to accept at the time and thats not 
covered by the policy. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AWP should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr S contract with AWP. 
The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events it covers for unused costs 
a policyholder incurs if they need to cancel their trip. 
One of these insured events is the FCDO advising against all but essential travel to a 
policyholders pre-booked destination. In this case, theres no dispute that Mr S holiday was 
cancelled as a result of the FCDO advising against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020. 
But AWP have used the following terms to decline the claim: 
Section B  Cancelling your trip
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for:
1. Travel and accommodation expenses which you have paid or have agreed to pay 
under a contract and which you have not used and which you cannot get back
If after the time you booked your trip or purchased your policy, whichever is later, the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office advises against all (but essential) travel to your 
intended destination and no travel and accommodation expenses are refundable or 
no alternative trip or travel has been offered.
So, like many travel insurance policies on the market, the policy doesnt provide cover for 
costs that can be recovered from elsewhere.
Mr S has explained the trip was a one-off holiday to mark a special birthday occasion which 
has now passed. And hes told us that it was a trip for five individuals who live in different 
locations, have different responsibilities and very limited availability. This together with the 
uncertainty about the future of travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic, meant that any 
alternative dates were impossible. Ive found his testimony on this point to be plausible and 
persuasive. 
Taking everything into account and in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it was 
reasonable for AWP to consider the offer of re-booking as meaning Mr S had recovered his 
cost from elsewhere. Im satisfied, from what Mr S has told us, that he wont be able to 
repeat the trip in the way he had initially planned as it was booked for a specific event which 
has now passed. And, arranging for the other travellers to join him is very difficult. So, even 
though there is an offer to rebook, Mr Ss specific circumstances mean that this offer is of 
very limited use to him and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect him to 
accept it. 
In any event, I also dont think Mr S will be able to make use of the re-booking offer as the 
accommodation provider hasnt been responding to his more recent emails.
In all the circumstances of this complaint, I think it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to 
accept Mr S cancellation claim. Im not persuaded that the claim has been declined fairly as 
I dont think the cost of the accommodation is recoverable in the particular circumstances of 
this case.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and direct AWP to settle the claim, subject to the remaining policy 
terms and limits. They should also pay 8% simple interest per year from the date Mr S claim 
was made to the date of settlement.
If AWP considers theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr S how much theyve taken off. They should also give him a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr S complaint against AWP P&C SA and direct them to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman