DRN-4216909
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA) 
settlement of their claim under their home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L noticed that sewage was in their garden. They contacted an independent 
contractor who advised them that the was likely a blockage and a collapsed drain. They 
advised that the cost to complete the repairs was £1,112.05. So, Mr and Mrs L contacted the 
AA to make a claim. It referred them to its contractor who Mr and Mrs L said told them that 
they could get their own contractors to carry out the repair, as they didnt have availability to 
send an engineer. Mrs L said that the AA contractors also didnt tell them that the AA would 
only pay up to the amount that it wouldve cost the AA to carry out the repairs. 
Because of this, Mr and Mrs L organised for the independent contractor to carry out the 
repairs and paid the £1,112.05. They contacted the AA to get full reimbursement of the 
costs. But the AA said that it would only reimburse the amount that it wouldve paid for its 
contractor to carry out the work. And this was £316.79 (this included the deduction of the 
excess). 
Mr and Mrs L complained to the AA as they said that its contractor had told them to get the 
work completed with their own contractors. And they had been advised that there was no 
availability, so as they needed the use of their facilities, and due to the health issue of a 
family member, they couldnt wait. In its final response, the AA maintained its position and 
only agreed to refund the £316.79. 
As Mr and Mrs L were given their referral rights, they referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and ultimately didnt think it should be 
upheld. The AA had provided a call note of Mrs Ls initial call, and this showed that it was Mr 
and Mrs L who had told the AA that they wanted to use their own contractor. Further, she 
said that neither Mr or Mrs L obtained the authorisation from the AA to use their own 
contractor, which was a policy term and condition. So, there was nothing further that she 
could reasonably ask the AA to do. 
The AA accepted the view, Mr and Mrs L did not. They questioned the veracity of the call 
note, as the AA had for many months said that there was no actual call recording available. 
They disputed that theyd only wanted their contractors to carry out the work. And 
maintained that they were advised to use their own contractors. So, they asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs L, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered all the evidence that both parties have provided me with. And having 
reviewed it, I think that the main issue is whether the AA was fair to settle the claim on the 
basis of what it wouldve paid its contractor to carry out the repairs. 
The starting point of any dispute is the contract between the parties. In this complaint, that is, 
the policy terms and conditions that both parties sign up to and gives the framework of the  
parties obligations. 
Under the home emergency section of the policy, it states:
If you have a home emergency you must report the emergency to us in the first instance for 
emergency repairs to your home. We will only pay charges of repairs instructed by us
I havent been provided with any evidence from Mr and Mrs L that they were not aware of 
this term in the policy. Nor have I been provided with any evidence that they didnt 
understand the term. I think the term clearly outlines the obligations by both parties. 
That is, if there is a home emergency, the consumer should contact the AA and report it, for 
the AA to carry out the repair. Further, the AA will only pay for charges of repairs that were 
instructed by them. I havent seen enough evidence from Mr and Mrs L that they had 
obtained the authority from the AA that said that it would pay for the charges.
Mr and Mrs L said that they had been told by the AA contractors that they could get their 
own engineers to carry out the repairs. And that they had been told this during the initial call. 
They said they had also been told that there was no current availability. The AA were unable 
to provide a copy of the call recording. But it did provide a call note. The note stated that Mr 
and Mrs L would like to use their own engineer to do the work. 
Further, there is no evidence to suggest that the AAs chosen contractor didnt have any 
availability or that the AA were given the opportunity to instruct another contractor to carry 
out the work. The evidence suggest on the balance of probabilities, that Mr and Mrs L 
wanted to use their own contractor. 
Although I understand that Mr and Mrs L are not impressed by the AAs position, I cant 
agree that the AA were unreasonable in settling the claim for the amount it wouldve cost, for 
its contractors to carry out the repairs. Consequently, Im unable to ask the AA to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Ayisha SavageOmbudsman