DRN-3192621
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed his credit card account without 
giving him enough notice.
What happened
Mr G had a credit card account with HSBC. In 2020, he was struggling financially and wasnt 
able to maintain payments to the account. He called HSBC in November 2020 to discuss his 
situation. As Mr Gs outgoings were more than his income at the time and the situation was 
unlikely to change in the near future, HSBC said that he was eligible for a Long Term No 
Affordability plan. Under the plan, payments would be suspended for six months but arrears 
would continue to build up and be reported to the Credit Reference Agencies. Mr G said he 
would think about it and call back.
But Mr G says that HSBC went on to default his account and didnt give him enough notice 
before doing so. He was living abroad at the time and says that letters were taking over a 
month to arrive. He says that, by the time he received the Final Demand, his account had 
been closed.
Mr G complained to HSBC. It said it hadnt heard from him after the phone call in November 
2020. As no arrangement had been made, it said it took steps to default the account. It didnt 
think it had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr G remained unhappy about the situation and came to this service. He wanted HSBC to 
re-open the account and give him time to pay the outstanding balance. Our Investigator 
didnt think HSBC needed to do anything here. But Mr G didnt agree and asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He says that Brexit and the Covid-19 
pandemic were extenuating circumstances and meant that more leniency should have been 
applied to his situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Mr G made to HSBC in November 2020. When the agent offered to 
put his account on a Long Term No Affordability plan, Mr G said he would think about it and 
call back. So Im satisfied that no plan was put in place during the call. Im also satisfied that 
Mr G didnt call back to agree to the plan. So there was no arrangement in place on the 
account. That being the case, I think it was reasonable for HSBC to write to Mr G about his 
outstanding balance. Ive looked at the letters it sent him.
In January 2021, HSBC wrote to Mr G about his outstanding balance and said it would 
monitor his account for persistent debt. In early March 2021, it wrote to him about the arrears 
on his account. It asked him to call so that it could understand his current financial situation 
and work with him to find an appropriate solution. The letter said that, if Mr G didnt make 
contact, its collections process would continue. It said this could result in him receiving a 
Default Notice which would be followed by a Final Demand if he wasnt able to repay the 
overdue amount within a reasonable time.
This letter was followed by a Default Notice later that month. It said that Mr G needed to pay 
the overdue amount before 9 April 2021. If he didnt, it said that HSBC might send him a 
demand for the full outstanding balance, close his account, take steps to recover the 
outstanding balance and report the default to the Credit Reference Agencies.
On 19 May 2021, HSBC issued a Final Demand. It said that, if Mr G didnt pay the full 
outstanding balance by 6 June 2021, it might close his account, seek to recover the 
outstanding balance and report the default to the Credit Reference Agencies.
Im satisfied that these letters and notices made it clear that, if Mr G didnt take any action, 
his account could be defaulted. Im also satisfied that Mr G didnt make any payments or 
contact HSBC after November 2020. So I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to take 
the steps it did. There had been no payments to the account since November 2020, no 
contact from Mr G and there was no arrangement in place. So I think it was reasonable for 
HSBC to treat the account as defaulted.
But Mr G says that he was abroad and post was taking over a month to reach him. So he 
says he didnt have enough notice of what was happening and that the account had already 
been closed by the time he received the letter about it. I dont doubt what Mr G says about 
the postal delays. But, in the time between his call with HSBC in November 2020 and the 
account being closed in June 2021, HSBC sent several letters. Im not sure when Mr G left 
the UK, but I note that the January and March letters (which included the Default Notice) 
were sent to a UK address. The letters and statements started being sent abroad from April 
2021 onwards. So, even if Mr G hadnt received the Final Demand by 6 June 2021, Im 
satisfied that he would have received enough of the communications from HSBC by that 
stage to know what action it might take if he didnt make contact. So I think its fair to say he 
was aware of the risk of doing nothing.
Mr G says that there were long waiting times to get through to HSBC on the phone and he 
tried calling several times without success. I dont doubt what he says. But I dont think its 
unreasonable to expect him to have persisted with attempts to contact HSBC, given his 
situation. He says he rang HSBC as soon as he received the Final Demand and he 
managed to speak to someone on that occasion. So I think its fair to say he ought to have 
been able to speak to someone about the account in the period between November 2020 
and June 2021. There were also other ways he could have contacted HSBC during that 
time, but I havent seen any evidence that he did so.
Mr G says he rang HSBC as soon as he received the Final Demand, but it said it was too 
late to do anything as the default was already being processed. HSBCs contact notes show 
that Mr G called on 28 June 2021. This was quite some time after the deadline given in the 
Final Demand. So I dont think it was unreasonable that HSBC had already defaulted the 
account by that stage.
Mr G says that Brexit and Covid-19 meant that the circumstances at the time were 
exceptional and that HSBC should have exercised more leniency. Im not persuaded that 
Brexit had any bearing on this situation. As for Covid-19, Id expect businesses to act in line 
with the Financial Conduct Authoritys coronavirus guidance and / or follow usual 
forbearance rules when dealing with customers in financial difficulty. From what Ive seen, I 
think HSBC did so here. I think its suggestion of a Long Term No Affordability plan was 
reasonable. But I would expect a customer to engage with the business in this situation. Mr 
G didnt contact HSBC despite its requests. He knew he wasnt making payments and that there was no arrangement in place on his account. In the circumstances here, I find that it 
was reasonable for HSBC to default the account.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman