DRN-1548605
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Scottish Widows Limited delayed paying him the proceeds of a maturing 
policy.
What happened
Mr A had a policy with Scottish Widows. It was due to mature on 18 February 2019. Scottish 
Widows wrote to Mr A to get his instructions on how to deal with the proceeds  his options 
were to extend the investment, invest in something else, or have the proceeds paid into an 
account with them or another bank account. 
Mr A wanted the money transferred to another bank account, so he returned these 
instructions along with the relevant sort code and account number. Scottish Widows wrote to 
him on 22 January 2019 to confirm they had everything they needed to make the transfer 
upon maturity. 
Mr As policy matured on 18 February 2019 and Scottish Widows instructed a BACS transfer 
the next day. 
On 6 March 2019, having not received the money Mr A called Scottish Widows to see what 
was happening. He was advised the money had been transferred. But when he checked his 
account again, it wasnt there, so he called back to let Scottish Widows know. They looked 
into this but couldnt see the money had been returned to them. 
On 11 March 2019, the payment was returned to Scottish Widows  they made the decision 
to send the money to Mr A by cheque instead, but despite making this decision, due to 
human error the cheque wasnt actually sent out.
Mr A didnt know about any of this and again called Scottish Widows for an update. He was 
told a cheque had been sent when it hadnt. And after a few more days waiting, he called 
again. Once Scottish Widows realised what had happened, they decided to make the 
transfer by CHAPS on 20 March 2019 instead. 
But the CHAPS payment didnt go through either. Mr A let Scottish Widows know about this 
so they recalled the transfer. The money was returned to Scottish Widows and a cheque 
was issued on 10 April 2019, received by Mr A a few days later. 
Mr A was unhappy with the delay and the inconvenience so he made a complaint. Scottish 
Widows reviewed what had happened but didnt agree the failed transfers were their fault. 
They did however offer £150 for the mistake in not sending the original cheque and for the 
confusion caused by saying itd been sent. And they added 8% interest on the maturity sum 
for the part of the delay theyd caused. 
Mr A didnt think the compensation was enough and asked for our help. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt find that Scottish Widows had done 
anything wrong as the attempted money transfers had used the details Mr A had provided. He did however agree the compensation offer was warranted given the misinformation about 
the cheque. 
Mr A wasnt happy with this  hed made a complaint about Scottish Widows as well as his 
bank but hadnt received an answer as to why the transfers had failed. So as no resolution 
was reached, the case was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but I too think £150 is enough compensation from Scottish 
Widows for what happened in this case.
Theres no doubt that something went wrong here. There were two failed transfers and 
these, along with a failure to issue the first cheque means Mr A received his maturity 
payment later than he should have done. But the question here is the extent to which 
Scottish Widows should be held responsible.
Ive taken a look at the information Mr A provided to Scottish Widows last January  Ive 
looked closely at the sort code and account number he provided for the transfer to be sent 
to. Ive also looked closely at the payment authorisation checklists that Scottish Widows 
completed for each of the attempted transfers. Having done so, I can assure Mr A that the 
instructions Scottish Widows gave to their bank were correct, and that the account details he 
provided were accurately noted. 
Because of this, while for some reason the transfers didnt complete, Ive not seen evidence 
to suggest this was because of a mistake made by Scottish Widows. Instead, there is likely 
to have been some sort of technical issue between the banks  indeed, it appears that with 
regards to the second transfer Mr As bank wasnt able to accept the CHAPS payment so it 
was held by a third party clearing bank. This isnt something Scottish Widows could have 
known, they were just trying to get the transfer sorted quickly given what had happened. 
Ive looked at the internal emails when Scottish Widows staff members were attempting to 
trace Mr As money. While the matter was inconvenient for Mr A, I can see their attempts 
were prompt and reasonable. So I think they did what they could to help out. 
I know this isnt a satisfactory answer for Mr A as hed like to know the reason why things 
went wrong. But I have to consider what Scottish Widows are responsible for, and I cant see 
a mistake was made with the transfer instructions. I appreciate Mr A has also complained to 
his bank and not been happy with the outcome of that either. But it doesnt follow that 
Scottish Widows are therefore at fault. 
So while I recognise the worry and inconvenience caused, I cant see Scottish Widows did 
anything wrong aside from saying theyd sent a cheque when they hadnt. While I agree this 
created a false expectation leading to further distress and frustration when the cheque didnt 
arrive, Scottish Widows have agreed what happened here wasnt good enough  the interest 
they paid on this delay was in line with what wed expect too. So although I know  Mr A will 
disagree with me, Im satisfied that the £150 offered fairly recognises the impact of the error. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A as I know he will be left without the answers hed like, but I 
cannot see Scottish Widows have done anything wrong with regards to instructing the 
transfer of his money to the account he asked or in their attempts to retrieve the funds. So I 
wont be asking them to increase the compensation theyve offered.My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided that the interest and the £150 Scottish Widows Limited 
has paid, or offered to pay, is enough compensation in respect of Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman