DRN-1487134
 
The complaint
Mrs J says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. The policy was added to 
Mrs Js credit card account when she applied for the card by post. It provided protection in 
the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
Mrs J mainly complains that she filled in a form that came through the post with her name 
and address, date of birth and work details and then she sent it back. Mrs J then received a 
letter saying her application for a credit card was successful with no mention of PPI - and 
that PPI wasnt something shed ticked for herself at the time. Mrs J says that this application 
has been falsified and isnt valid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
There were Yes and No tick boxes for PPI on the credit card application form Mrs J filled 
in. Theres a tick in the Yes box indicating that she wanted the insurance. 
Ive taken into account what Mrs J said about the way the information was put on the 
application form. But I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me to say that someone 
else filled in the form to say Mrs J wanted PPI without her knowing about it or agreeing to it, 
just based on what Mrs J says. 
Even if understandably shes forgotten this now, on balance, based on all the information 
I've seen, it looks more likely that Capital One made Mrs J aware that the PPI was optional 
and that she chose to take it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. But it still had to make sure that Mrs J had enough information to make a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for her. And if this didn't happen, then I have to think 
about whether this made any overall difference to Mrs J.The policy wouldve covered Mrs Js credit card monthly repayments for up to 12 months if 
she couldnt work. She told us that she was only able to rely on getting less than 3 months 
sick pay from her employer. And it doesnt look like she had any other way of making her 
credit card repayments if she couldnt work. So I think Mrs J couldve benefitted from the 
PPI. 
Its possible some of the information Capital One gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Mrs J chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to and so it 
appears she wanted to have this type of cover. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if that affected Mrs J. 
Ive thought about what Mrs J said about her part time hours  but working 25 hours a week 
would still have meant she could've claimed for all the policy benefits. So, I dont think 
having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put her off taking it out. 
The policy appears to have been affordable for Mrs J when she signed up for it. She 
wouldve been able to see the monthly premium for the PPI appearing on her credit card 
statements. As she paid for the policy each month, she couldve cancelled the insurance at 
any time if her circumstances changed or she didnt want to keep paying for it.   
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mrs J wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy. 
In coming to my view, I've taken into account everything that Mrs J has said in response to 
the adjudicators view. 
The mailshot application she received through the post incorrectly addressed her as Ms  
but this isnt a reason for me to uphold her complaint and it doesnt mean the application 
wasnt valid. I can see that she indicated her preferred form of address by ticking the box for 
Mrs.  
If Mrs J became unemployed when her employer ceased trading in May 2005 its possible 
that she could make a retrospective (backdated) claim if she didn't claim for this at the time. 
She may wish to approach the insurer to see if it would be prepared to accept and consider 
a backdated claim. If Mrs J pursues a claim and finds that she has concerns in this regard, 
then she should first tell the insurer why shes unhappy, and if unable to reach a satisfactory 
conclusion, she may be able to bring a complaint relating to the retrospective claim to this 
Service as a separate matter. 
Our adjudicator confirmed that the credit card agreement Mrs J took out PPI with ended 
some time after April 2008.
This means Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs J.
But Capital One (Europe) plc offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J 
because: 
Capital One (Europe) plc got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs J about that. Because Capital 
One (Europe) plc didnt tell Mrs J, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One (Europe) plc offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that is fair in this case.
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs J any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it hasnt already done this then it 
should do so - I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman