DRN-3935361
Complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) changed her account to a graduate 
account, withdrew her overdraft and defaulted it without notifying her in advance.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss S concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss S 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Miss S graduate terms were due to expire before the start of the 2020/2021 academic year. 
So Im satisfied that Santander was entitled to change the terms of Miss S account at this 
time. But even though Santander was entitled to vary Miss S account, I would expect a bank 
doing this to provide a customer with notice of any changes in advance of them happening. 
In this case, it isnt in dispute that Santander sent the required notifications, regarding her 
account being converted to a graduate account, in 2020 as well as the default notice in June 
2021. However, these were sent to an address Miss S had left. And Miss S accepts that she 
didnt notify Santander of her change of address at this time. 
However, Miss S says that Santander, in any event, had her correct email address and her 
correspondence address as these were provided to the debt collection agency her debt was 
passed on to. However, the information Ive seen suggests that these details were obtained 
from a third-party after the account had already defaulted. 
So Ive not seen anything to indicate that Santander ought to have known that it should have 
sent any letters to Miss S to an alternative address. And Im satisfied that Santander sent 
notifications of the change of account and the default notice to the address it held for Miss S. 
This means that Im also satisfied it took reasonable steps to notify Miss S of the upcoming 
changes and the fact that it intended to default her overdraft. 
I also know that Miss S is unhappy these communications were sent to her by post. She has 
said that letters arent a sufficient way to contact people in this day and age. But while 
certain communications such as statement alerts can be sent be email, text messages or 
provided over the phone, it is a requirement for firms to send formal correspondence such as 
a notice of a variation in the terms of an account or a default notice by post. So I dont think 
that Santander acted unfairly in this regard.   
Bearing in mind the above and Miss S didnt repay what was owed, after the default notice 
was sent in June 2021, within the specified period, Im satisfied that Santander was entitled 
to withdraw Miss S overdraft and record the relevant information with credit reference 
agencies. 
Overall and having considered everything, while I do appreciate Miss S strength of feeling 
on this matter, I dont think that Santander has treated her unfairly. And so Ive not been 
persuaded to uphold Miss S complaint. I realise that this will be very disappointing for          
Miss S. But I hope that shell understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that 
her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman