DRN-3816597
The complaint
Mr W complains that Allied Irish Banks Plc (AIB) didnt fairly and reasonably handle his 
claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a payment he made using 
his credit card for the purchase of a timeshare product.
What happened
In or around December 2015, Mr W met with a representative of a timeshare supplier who Ill 
refer to as A. During that meeting, Mr W told A he had an existing timeshare with another 
provider. But he had concerns about that timeshare and thought the standard of 
accommodation offered by A was better than that offered by his existing provider.
A offered to take Mr Ws existing timeshare product in exchange for the purchase of a 
timeshare product provided by them. Mr W agreed to proceed with completing the purchase 
at a total cost of £29,500. That cost was funded in part by a bank transfer of £8,850 from his 
personal bank account, with the balance of £20,650 funded under a loan agreement with 
another business.
In November 2019, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr W submitted a claim 
to AIB under section 75 of the CCA (S75). The PR said A had mis-sold the timeshare 
product to Mr W by misrepresenting the associated benefits and features. Further, they said 
A used aggressive and persistent sales tactics making Mr W feel pressured to complete the 
purchase. The PR thought As actions breached the various regulations that applied to the 
timeshare sale.
Having not received a response from AIB, the PR referred Mr Ws complaint to this service  
that being that AIB had failed to respond to the claim submitted. They also said that as A 
are now in liquidation, they arent able to provide the service sold and are in breach of 
contract. They said Mr W had paid £950 for a Golden Week to be taken at any time of the 
year. Mr W said this purchase was presented as mandatory for the completion of the 
timeshare agreement. However, hed since discovered that other timeshare owners hadnt 
had to make such a purchase.
Following referral of the complaint to AIB by our investigator, they confirmed they hadnt 
previously received the claim letter. So, they agreed to investigate Mr Ws claim. Having 
done so, AIB wrote to Mr W with their findings 
. While they didnt uphold his claim or complaint, they did request further information in order 
to establish whether the correct debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship existed to 
enable a claim to be made under S75.
Having looked into everything, our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be 
upheld. They hadnt seen anything to confirm what the payment of £950 was for. And while 
Mr Ws credit card statement evidenced the payment had been made, there was nothing 
within the timeshare contract documents provided to confirm what Mr W was entitled to as a 
result of that payment.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings. In response, the PR explained why they 
thought the necessary DCS relationship existed. They also referred to another upheld 
complaint which had similar circumstances to Mr Ws.
Mr W emphasised that the purchase of the Golden Week was presented as a mandatory 
purchase. And he considered this deceptive & misleading and a crime under the Fraud Act 
2006. He thought AIB had a legal and moral obligation to protect customers from fraud and 
they should reimburse him for his losses.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mr Ws complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook means 
Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr W says 
the payment made using his credit card related to the timeshare product he purchased. So, 
where evidence supports that to be the case, its not in dispute that S75 applies. This means 
that Mr W would be afforded the protection offered to borrowers like him under those 
provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont provide a legal 
service. And this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. 
Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, it doesnt prejudice their 
right to pursue any claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt necessarily to address in my 
decision every single point thats been made. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I believe are the most salient points having considered everything thats been said and 
provided.
Does Mr W have a valid claim under S75?
S75 (1) says If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim 
against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor (emphasis added).
In order to link the credit card payment to the timeshare product transaction, I would need to 
see evidence of what it was the payment of £950 specifically related to. And, importantly, 
that it was contractually linked to the timeshare product transaction.
Mr W says the credit card payment of £950 formed part of the timeshare purchase 
agreement in as much as he was led to believe the associated purchase of a Golden Week 
was mandatory and a condition of that purchase. The difficulty I have is identifying what was 
1 The FCAs Dispute Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook (DISP)actually said at that time of the sale. So, Ive thought about that alongside the evidence 
available.
Although not determinative of the matter, I havent seen any documentation which supports 
Mr Ws assertion. And although Ive seen the purchase agreement, Ive seen no marketing 
material or further detailed documentation from the time of the sale that echoes what he 
says he was told. So, I cant say, with any certainty, that A did in fact tell Mr W that the 
Golden Week purchase was mandatory. And because of that, I also cant reasonably 
conclude that the credit card transaction formed part of the timeshare product transaction. 
As a consequence, I dont believe Mr W has a valid claim under S75.
The DCS relationship
As Ive already mentioned, under S75, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a 
precondition to a claim under that provision. Mr Ws credit card statement suggests the 
payment he made was to a different company rather than to A directly. I acknowledge the 
PRs assertions that the company receiving payment was sufficiently related to A to ensure 
that the DCS relationship remained intact. 
The High Courts judgment in the case of Steiner v National Westminster Bank PLC [2022] 
considered a scenario, with similar circumstances, in order to establish the validity of the 
DCS relationship in that case. However, given the facts and circumstances of this complaint 
and my overall outcome with those in mind, I dont think its necessary to make a formal 
finding on the DCS arrangement for the purpose of this decision. Because I dont think Mr W 
has a valid claim under S75 anyway.  
Summary
Having considered all the information, I havent seen anything that persuades me the 
payment Mr W made with his credit card formed part of the timeshare purchase transaction. 
And because of that, while I realise Mr W will be disappointed, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to ask AIB to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman