DRN-3468457
The complaint
Ms M complains Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) recorded a default on 
her credit file despite agreeing a payment holiday for her account.
What happened
Ms M had a credit card with M&S. Between May and July 2020 M&S put a payment holiday 
in place to help Ms M during the COVID pandemic. The payment holiday meant Ms M didnt 
have to make any payments for three months without impact to her credit file. But interest 
continued to accrue and be added to the debt during this time, so the balance was going up.
Ms M made her contractual payments in August, September and October. In November 
2020 Ms M then sent M&S details of her income and expenditure as she wanted to discuss 
agreeing another payment holiday. After some discussion, a no affordability plan was put in 
place.
Over the following months, M&S sent Ms M correspondence about her credit card, including 
a default notice and a formal demand. M&S went on to record a default on her credit file.
Ms M complained to M&S and it issued a final response where it said it would not be 
changing its procedures.
Ms M referred her complaint to this service, and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought M&S had dealt with Ms Ms case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Ms M 
asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders for 
customers experiencing short term financial difficulties as a direct result of the pandemic. 
The guidance meant businesses could offer a payment holiday for an initial three-month 
period without an impact to the customers credit file. Thats the approach M&S took in May 
2020 when it approved the first payment holiday. But this didnt stop interest and charges 
being applied to the debt so the outstanding balance increased each month.
The guidance says lenders should only approve a payment holiday for a maximum of six 
months. And, if the nature of the financial difficulties the customer is experiencing isnt 
reasonably short term, lenders were obliged to consider other options in terms of providing 
forbearance and breathing space.
Ive listened to the November 2020 call Ms M had with M&S. Ms M confirmed she wasnt 
sure when she would be able to return to work, but hoped that might be in the new year. 
M&S also discussed Ms Ms income and expenditure with her, which indicated she wasnt 
able to afford to make any payments to her credit card. 
The FCA guidance at that time was that a lender shouldnt agree a COVID related payment 
holiday if it was aware that might not be in the customers best interests. With Ms Ms 
circumstances in mind, Im satisfied that it wouldnt have been right for M&S to agree 
another payment holiday at this stage. The no affordability plan M&S offered was more 
appropriate as even though this plan would have an impact on Ms Ms credit file, it would 
also mean that interest stopped accruing on the outstanding balance of Ms Ms credit card, 
and so her debt wouldnt increase.
Regarding what Ms M was told about the no affordability plan, M&S has provided phone 
recordings that show what was discussed when the plan was offered to Ms M. The staff 
member she spoke to clearly explained the potential impact of the plan on her credit file. 
This included setting out that M&S would ultimately be issuing a default notice and final 
demand, and if the amount set out in the final demand was not repaid at that point then a 
default would be recorded on Ms Ms credit file, where it would remain for six years. After 
this was explained to Ms M she agreed to the no affordability plan. 
M&S then wrote to Ms M to set out the details of the plan, and this letter also included details 
of how it might affect her credit file. Ms M says she never received this letter, but from M&Ss 
records, Im satisfied it was sent, and to the correct address. In any case, I dont consider it 
makes a material difference because, as set out above, Ms M was given the information 
verbally.
M&S sent Ms M a default notice in February 2021. The general guidance is that the default 
process should be started when an account is between three to six months in arrears. So 
while I appreciate that Ms M was only around three months into her six month no 
affordability plan, I dont think it was unreasonable for M&S to issue the default notice at this 
stage. 
Ms M called M&S to ask what she needed to do when she received this letter, and Ive also 
listened to this phone call. M&S explained that while a plan was in place  and it therefore 
understood Ms M was not able to make any payments at that time  it still had to send the 
default notice and final demand. The staff member Ms M spoke to explained if she could 
make the payment as set out in the letter shed received then no default would be recorded, 
but if she couldnt then they would go on to record a default with the credit reference 
agencies. But as Ms M didnt make the payments set out in either the default notice or the 
final demand, the account was ultimately defaulted. 
I appreciate that Ms M then did make a significant payment towards the debt, but this 
payment was made too late to avoid the default being registered. Ms M would have had to 
either clear the arrears by 3 March 2021  as set out in the default notice  or repay the 
entire outstanding balance by 2 April 2021  as set out in the final demand. And she didnt 
make any payment to the account until 9 May 2021, after the default had already been 
registered.
I appreciate what Ms M has said about the FCAs guidance that COVID related payment 
holidays should not be recorded on credit files, but what she agreed with M&S in November 
2020 was not a payment holiday - it was a no affordability plan. And while I know my 
decision will come as a disappointment for Ms M, Im satisfied that M&S did make it clear 
that the no affordability plan she was agreeing to could result in a default being recorded 
on her credit file. Im also satisfied that M&S then followed the correct process for a default, 
giving Ms M the appropriate notice of what would be happening at each stage.
I know Ms M has also expressed dissatisfaction with how M&S has handled her complaint, 
and I acknowledge that the final response letter she received was lacking in detail and that this letter was sent to her soon after her initial conversation with M&S where she raised her 
complaint. But, overall, this doesnt change my decision that M&S has treated her fairly here.
I understand that Ms M has since made a further complaint to M&S about what happened 
when she set up a direct debit to begin making payments to her credit card again after the 
default. This decision only addresses the issues Ms M raised when she first referred her 
complaint to us. If she wishes to raise a new complaint about anything that has happened 
since then, she should let us know.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman