DRN-2134972
The complaint
This is a complaint that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mr A. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999. RBS sold Mr A the policy 
at the same time that he applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mr A has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain 
why.
Mr A points out that the form he filled in said, about the PPI, We strongly recommend that 
you take out this cover. He says he wouldnt have taken the PPI without that 
recommendation. 
A bank recommending a PPI policy doesnt, by itself, mean that it was mis-sold. It wasnt 
automatically wrong for a bank to make such a recommendation. 
For me to regard this as a mis-sale, it would also have to have been an unsuitable 
recommendation, based on the customers circumstances and needs at the time. 
I dont think a recommendation of this PPI would have been unsuitable, in Mr As 
circumstances. The PPI could have paid out for longer that Mr As combined employer sick 
pay and savings lasted. It would also have paid out at the same time as that sick pay.  So it 
could have proved useful in protecting his finances, if he had to deal with long-term sickness 
or redundancy. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I cant see any other reason 
why the recommendation was unsuitable.
It doesnt look, from the form alone, that RBS gave Mr S proper information about the PPI  
for example the costs and how long the benefits would last. And I dont know if it supplied 
other information at the time. 
In such a situation, I look at how likely it is that better information would have meant Mr A 
didnt take PPI. I cant be sure, but I dont think its likely to have made a difference. He did, 
in principle, appear to want PPI  as he ticked the box. And a closer understanding of the 
PPI would have shown him that, as Ive said, it could have paid out for longer than his sick 
pay and savings would have lasted. So I dont think better information is likely to have 
changed his mind.
Overall, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. This means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr A. But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A 
because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr A, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
What the business needs to do
If it has not already made the payment:
RBS has to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mr A any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr A the difference 
between what Mr A owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Mr A 
8%* simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr A any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman