The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Experian Limited in relation to the data 
subject access request (DSAR) he made. 
Mr H would like the outstanding issues resolved and compensation paid for distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
What happened
In my provisional decision of 17 June 2020, a copy of which is attached and forms part of 
this, my final decision, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint. 
I said on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Experian said, I 
wasn't satisfied that Mr H was dealt with reasonably. 
I also said:
" I note that in a letter dated 16 August 2019, Mr H explained that he was an accountholder 
of National Savings and Investments and that in a letter to the account provider he 
requested provide me, in writing, with the full names and contact details of all parties 
outside NS&I who have been provided with or have access to my personal data. It seems 
that in response to his query, he received the received the name of Experian. 
I note that in the letter to Experian Mr H explained that in line with his queries he required 
in writing, with the full names and contact details of all parties outside Experian who have 
been provided with or have had access to my personal data and that he wanted this 
information sent to him via standard Royal Mail delivery. Based on his letters it seems to me 
that Mr H was seeking confirmation that Experian was using his personal data appropriately. 
Mr H also made clear that if hes not dealt with reasonably, he will seek compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused.  And if Experian doesnt adhere to its rules under GDPR, the 
matter will be referred to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Experian maintains that it didnt receive this letter dated 16 August 2019, and therefore 
wasnt able to respond which I appreciate. I note Experian says it only received the letter 
dated 19 August 2019 which was the complaint letter. 
But I understand our service provided the letter dated 16 August 2019 to Experian, which in 
turn sought further details from Mr H to confirm his identity. I dont think this was 
unreasonable in the circumstances either. 
DRN-1942904But having eventually confirmed Mr Hs details, (following more missing letters including Mr 
Hs response dated 24 August 2019) its not clear why Experian didnt provide Mr H with a 
written list of full names and contact details of all parties outside Experian who have been 
provided with or have had access to his personal data? Or even explain why its not able to 
do so. 
Experian maintains that it doesnt understand what hes looking for and Mr H keeps referring 
it to his letter dated 16 August 2019. So, whilst I think Mr H couldve made things clearer in 
terms of what was at the heart of his request, I dont think it was unclear such that a 
business couldnt respond. I note the wording wasnt dissimilar to the wording Mr H sent to 
other third party businesses.  
I note that it was only in response to the question about what data types Mr H was asking for 
 although Experian didnt provide any options as to the types of data  Mr H responded with
All material to which I have an entitlement under GDPR, although this probably wouldnt
have helped clarify matters. It seems to me Mr H wanted an answer to his primary question
regardless of whether the data involved marking data or otherwise.
Whether or not Experian holding/sharing data follows GDPR might be matter that Mr H can 
deal with in due course through the ICO if he so chooses. I note that Experian has provided 
our service with a broad explanation of the type of date it holds on customers and why. 
Perhaps it couldve provided a similar explanation to Mr H along with a response to his 
request after its authenticated his details if it hasnt done so already.".   
So I thought Experian should pay Mr H £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
and failing to respond to his original request for information. 
Experian responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr H also responded but rejected my provisional decision. In summary, he said that 
the initial request for information was clear and he didn't think £50 compensation for trouble 
and upset was fair and reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new evidence my conclusion regarding this complaint, remains 
as set out previously. I think the complaint should be partially upheld, and for the same 
reasons. 
Despite what Mr H says I still think the £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused is 
broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Notwithstanding the point Mr H makes about his initial request, I still believe that Experian 
failed to respond in writing, with the full names and contact details of all parties outside 
Experian who have been provided with or have had access to Mr Hs personal data. And 
thats the primary basis upon which I uphold this complaint.  
Putting things rightI think Experian Limited should pay Mr H £50 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman