DRN-2058970
The complaint
Mr R complains about what happened when he had a visit at his home from Resolvecall.
What happened
Resolvecall has been hired by a debt collection agent to get in touch with a customer and 
link him up with the bank he owes a credit card debt to. In June 2018, Resolvecall wrote to 
Mr R about this, and said it might visit him at his home if he didnt reply. 
Mr R lived in sheltered housing then. He complains about what happened on that visit. He 
said Resolvecalls agent had to be asked to leave, and caused distress to him and to the 
residents of the home. He also said that Resolvecall and the debt collection agency it was 
working for had failed to link him to the debt, and they were simply harassing a vulnerable 
person. 
Resolvecall didnt agree about what happened on the visit. It said it had an audio recording 
of the visit, which showed that the visit was conducted in a polite and professional manner. It 
sent that to our service.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Hed listened to the recording, 
and he didnt think the visit was done in an aggressive or unreasonable way. Our service 
would expect Resolvecall to look into any evidence that contradicted this, but that evidence 
didnt seem to have been provided to Resolvecall. 
Mr R said he didnt need reconnecting, he was already in contact with the debt collection 
agency. Our investigator said that he could complain about being linked with the debt to the 
agency itself, if he would like. But on the evidence we have, our investigator said we couldnt 
say that Resolvecall has acted unfairly. Mr R didnt agree, and he wanted his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint were considering here is about Resolvecall, and whether it behaved 
inappropriately on a visit to Mr Rs residence in 2018. I have listened to a recording of that 
visit, I dont think that offers any evidence of inappropriate behaviour.
Mr R says he has other evidence, which contradicts this. Neither our service nor Resolvecall 
has seen this evidence. If Mr R prefers not to supply this, then I need to consider the 
evidence I do have, and decide, on the balance of probabilities, whats likely to have 
happened. 
I dont think its likely, on the evidence I have received, that Resolvecalls member of staff 
behaved inappropriately on the visit to Mr Rs home in 2018. So I dont think Resolvecall has 
to do any more in response to this complaint than it has done already. 
In response to our investigators view that this complaint shouldnt be upheld, Mr R said that 
he didnt need to be reconnected to the debt. As our investigator said, if Mr R thinks hes 
been wrongly linked to this debt, he can complain to the debt collection agency about that.
I know Resolvecall wrote to Mr R before it visited him. It then visited some nine days later. It 
said it would do this if it didnt receive any contact from Mr R within seven days. Mr R had 
written during this time, but his letter hadnt been received and actioned before the visit. 
Ive read the letter Mr R sent at the time, and I dont think I can conclude that a visit was 
clearly unnecessary as a result of that correspondence. So I dont think that Resolvecall did 
anything wrong when it visited Mr R at his home. For that reason, I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman