DRN-1986206
The complaint
Mr D and the estate of Mrs D complain that Barclays Bank Plc gave unsuitable investment 
advice.
What happened
In March 2000 Mr D and the late Mrs D were advised to invest £50,000 in the Barclays 
Personal Investment Management Portfolio (BPIMP) and invested a total of £49,412. 
Mr D and Mrs D were both retired at the time of advice with a net disposable income of 
£1,000 after deduction of normal outgoings. They had £30,000 in deposit accounts and each 
had a cash ISA of £3,000. They also had £40,000 in equities.
They surrendered the investment in 2004 at which time they received back £34,604.
Mr D complained to Barclays at the end of 2019 because he thought the advice to invest in 
the BPIMP was unsuitable and this had resulted in him and Mrs D losing money.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter (FRL) of 10 January 2020 it 
said it was satisfied that the BPIMP was a suitable recommendation for Mr Ds and Mrs Ds 
objective of growth over the medium to long term and their identified medium attitude to risk.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld as she 
thought that Mr D and Mrs D had been given suitable advice. She said that they had been 
categorised as medium risk investors, which Mr D hadnt disagreed with. 
She said she was satisfied that the BPIM represented a risk they were willing to take to 
achieve their objective of medium to long term growth. The investigator also thought that Mr 
D and Mrs D had the experience and knowledge to understand the risks of the investment 
and wanted someone to deal with the paperwork and manage their portfolio for them.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. In summary he made the following points:
The adviser had promoted the BPIM aggressively for his own benefit and filled in the 
application himself.
They wanted a managed investment with a professional team who would do better 
than them in the short, medium and long term.
The investigator has come to her conclusion having read the conclusions reached by 
Barclays in its investigation of the complaint which could be possibly biased in its 
favour.
Barclays telephoned him when investigating the complaint and kept going over the 
same question  the period of time they wanted to invest for  and it was more 
interrogation than conversation.
To some extent they did understand the risk, as the investigator had said, but the 
adviser painted such a good picture.
He didnt want someone to deal with the paperwork as the investigator said, he deals 
with his own paperwork.
They accepted the advice because as valued customers they didnt think Barclays 
would let them down.
He is not happy with the investigators conclusion as she has accepted everything 
Barclays said in January 2020.
As well as painting a very optimistic picture in the short, medium, and long term, Barclays 
also mismanaged the investment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D, on behalf of himself and as the administrator of Mrs Ds estate, complains that he and 
Mrs D were given unsuitable advice. But I have seen no persuasive evidence to support this. 
I note what Mr D has said about the investigator accepting what Barclays said in its FRL. But 
it is inevitable when deciding a complaint that one partys case will be preferred over 
anothers. That doesnt mean there is bias in favour of that party.
I have considered all the evidence from both parties in reaching my decision and I have 
made findings on a balance of probabilities - what is more likely than not  where there is a 
dispute.
I think it is reasonably clear from the evidence I have seen that what had driven this 
complaint is that the BPIMP didnt perform as Mr D and Mrs D expected. When Mr D and 
Mrs D saw the adviser, in March 2000, they already had £40,000 invested in various equities 
which they had been managing themselves. They wanted a managed portfolio because they 
expected this to do better than them managing their own investments - as Mr D said in 
response to the investigators opinion.
I note Mr D sent a letter to the portfolio manager dated 2 May 2002 in which he complained 
about the drop in the value of the investment from £50,000 to around £40,000. In that letter 
he said that he and Mrs D were well aware of the drop in the value of the F.T. Index but 
compared the position of the portfolio with the position they wouldve been if they had 
retained their original shareholdings and the additional £10,000 cash invested and this 
indicated they wouldve been better off not investing in the BPIMP. 
I think this shows that Mr D was well aware of the risk associated with the investment given it 
had dropped around 20% in value in only two years. There is nothing to suggest that he 
thought that the investment was too risky, just that he thought he couldve done a better job 
than Barclays.
I also note the closing questionnaire Mr D completed after surrender of the investment in 
which he said that the BPIM service didnt live up to expectations. He said that over the 
period of investment it had done worse than he wouldve done. He also said that they 
wouldve been better off if they had kept the original shares they were invested in and that 
he would invest in equities himself in future as it could not be worse.
The fact that Mr D thinks Barclays has done a poor job in managing his investments and he 
feels let down is also made clear in his response to the investigator. So, I think it is more 
likely than not Mr D has complained because the performance of investment was worse than 
he expected, and he is unhappy he is worse off as a result of having used the services of 
BPIM rather than continuing to manage his own investments.
But the fact that Mr D and Mrs D expected that their investment would do better under the 
management of a portfolio manager than if they had managed their investment isnt evidence Barclays did something wrong when it didnt perform as they expected. This isnt of 
itself evidence of mismanagement, and I have seen no evidence that persuades me that the 
loss in value of Mr Ds and Mrs Ds investment was because the investment was 
mismanaged.
I acknowledge the investment lost a significant amount of money - nearly 30% of its value. 
But equity markets dropped significantly in value between when he invested and the 
beginning of 2003. Markets recovered a little in the following year before Mr D and Mrs D 
surrendered the investment, but not significantly. 
This will undoubtedly have had a significant impact on the BPIMP. The fact it lost so much in 
value in the circumstances isnt surprising and again isnt evidence of itself that Barclays did 
something wrong. I am not saying it isnt possible that it might not have done better if the 
manager of the portfolio had made different decisions. But even if that is the case that isnt 
the same as saying his decisions amounted to mismanagement. 
I have considered the overall suitability of the advice to invest in the BPIMP. Given Mr D and 
Mrs D wanted someone to manage their investment I think it was reasonable for the adviser 
to recommend this. I think they were in a position to understand the investment risk given 
their previous investment experience. I also think the risk of the investment was one they 
were willing to take. They were identified as medium-risk investors and Mr D has not 
suggested this was wrong - I also think this is consistent with them already having existing 
investments which were almost entirely in equities.
I have considered the proportion of the BPIMP that was invested in equities. At around 70% 
this was as significant amount of their overall investment, given their medium-risk appetite.
But in this case I dont think this was too much, given Mr Ds and Mrs Ds experience of 
managing their own equity investments and the fact that £40,000 of the capital invested 
came from their existing equity holdings. Im also mindful that what they wanted was 
someone to manage their investments rather than a change to what they were invested in. In 
the circumstances Im not persuaded that putting 70% of their capital in equities - which 
amounted to around £35,000 of their investment compared to the £40,000 of equities they 
were previously invested in - was wrong 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and the 
estate of Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman