DRN-3838180
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt applied the correct interest to his accounts.
What happened
Mr M says that he should have been receiving interest at a rate of 0.10% on his Everyday 
Saver Account and 0.80% on his Cash ISA Account. However, he says he wasnt receiving 
this amount and called Santander on several occasions to query this. 
Santander issued final response letter in July 2022 saying that a mistake hadnt been made. 
It said it had arranged for an interest breakdown to be sent to Mr M and noted that interest 
was calculated daily and paid monthly or yearly. It said if the rates change; it would notify 
Mr M through his statement.
Mr M says Santander had calculated the interest at 0.01% which wasnt the amount he was 
promised or that was stated on his mobile banking application. He said that had he known 
the actual interest rate he would have changed his accounts to another bank or building 
society. As Mr M wasnt happy with Santanders response, he referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator noted that the terms and conditions for the accounts said that the current 
interest rates and fees information will be given when the customer applies for the account. 
She noted that the interest rates were variable so they could change. Based on this she 
didnt find that Santander had applied the interest rate incorrectly. However, she did think 
that the mobile banking application needed to be updated to show the correct interest rates 
and recommended Santander pay Mr M £50 compensation for the upset he had been 
caused. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said it wasnt right that Santander could 
give incorrect information about its interest rates, and he reiterated that had he known the 
actual interest rate he would have moved his money sooner. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr M is upset by the interest rate he has received on his accounts and 
that he believes he should have received a higher amount. However, having looked at the 
information provided I do not find I can say that Santander has done anything wrong in 
regard to the application of interest.
Mr M has provided a screenshot of his accounts which show the interest rate on the 
Everyday Saver account as 0.10% and the interest rate on the Cash ISA as 0.80%. It isnt 
clear the exact date of the screenshot, but Santander has confirmed that the Cash ISA rate 
of 0.80% is the current interest rate and having looked at information available on 
Santanders website it shows that the rate of 0.1% was the interest rate for the Everyday 
Saver account effective from June 2022. Therefore, it appears that the mobile application 
shows the current rate of interest relevant to the product at that time. 
Mr M says he hasnt received the interest rate he should have. Santander has provided an 
interest calculation breakdown that shows Mr M received interest at rate of 0.01% on his 
accounts in the year March 2021 to March 2022. I appreciate this is lower than Mr M thought 
he would receive but his accounts have a variable rate of interest and the account terms and 
conditions set out that the interest rate can change. Santander has provided copies of 
Mr Ms statements for the relevant period, and these show the interest rate of 0.01% on the 
ISA and the Everyday Saver account. As this information was available to Mr M at the time, I 
do not find I can say that he wasnt given the information needed to make an informed 
decision about where to place his money. As the statements show the interest rate to be the 
same amount as that used in the calculation of Mr Ms interest, I do not find I can say that 
Santander has done anything wrong.
Our investigator recommended that Mr M be paid £50 compensation for the upset he had 
been caused. I can see that Mr M was concerned about his interest rate and while 
Santander has shown this was applied correctly, I think it could have done more to explain 
the situation to Mr M and so I do not find it unreasonable that compensation of £50 is paid 
and I note Santander didnt disagree with this.
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr M £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused in regard to his concerns about the interest rate on his accounts. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should take the action set out above in resolution 
of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman