DRN-1511572
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to act quickly and 
downgrade his packaged bank account to a fee free current account when he requested it.
What happened
Mr H says he visited his local Nationwide branch in May 2019 and requested that his 
FlexAccount, for which he paid a fee, be downgraded to a fee free current account. But in 
July 2019 he found this hadnt been done and so complained to Nationwide. He says he paid 
Nationwide account fees and other charges after his request in May 2019 and he wants 
these refunded to him.
Nationwide says it has no record of his request in May 2019 and says it has not refunded 
any fees or charges.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint but said Nationwide only needed to repay fees and 
charges after Mr H made his complaint in July 2019.
Mr H disagrees so the complaint has come to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr H, but Ive come to the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator and Ill explain why.
Its not possible for me to know if Mr H made a request to downgrade his account in May 
2019. But if I accept that he did, I think its more likely than not he made a verbal request and 
not a written request in the branch, because that is what he says he did.
Nationwide says that if he had made a verbal request it wouldve asked him to make an 
appointment to discuss the matter and put his request in writing to action the downgrade. I 
think this is reasonable, as Nationwide could not act on a verbal request alone, and it was for 
Mr H to then take the next step.
However, I agree with our adjudicator that Mr Hs complaint letter on 17 July 2019 did 
constitute a written request and Nationwide should have acted on this.
I therefore conclude that Nationwide was not wrong to have taken no action in May 2019. 
But it was wrong not to action Mr Hs downgrade on 17 July 2019 and Mr H lost out as a 
result of this.
Putting things right
I require Nationwide Building Society to put Mr H back in the position he would have been in 
if it had downgraded his account on 17 July 2019. To do this it must repay Mr H any account 
fees, or charges that occurred because of the account fees, after that date plus simple 
interest from the date Mr H incurred each fee or charge to the date it makes the payment to 
Mr H. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr H has saved money because of a better rate on his overdraft or loan by having the 
packaged account and Nationwide can show exactly how much Mr H saved, it may deduct 
these savings from the amount it pays him  but only after it has calculated the above. 
Nationwide must explain clearly and simply to Mr H how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint as described above and require Nationwide Building Society to 
pay him redress as shown in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman