DRN-3354032
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as H, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough 
to prevent them losing out financially as a result of an authorised push payment (APP) 
fraud.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. Briefly, in October 2019, H set up a payment of €100,000 from their euro business 
premium account to their foreign exchange provider. 
H has explained that the payment was to be made to their forex provider so that they could 
in turn pay H an equivalent amount in pound sterling into their sterling business account, and 
this was for payment of wages to Hs staff.
On the day H set up the payment, they received an email purportedly from their forex dealer 
requesting to amend the payment details. There was nothing suspicious about the email and 
the director of H proceeded to carry out the instruction. He called Barclays to enquire how to 
amend the payment details. With the help of the banks staff over telephone, he amended 
the details and made the payment to the revised account.
Unfortunately, this turned out to be a fraud and that came to light a week later. H contacted 
Barclays who in turn contacted the beneficiary bank. However only about £4 could be 
recovered from the beneficiarys account.
H said that when the director called Barclays for help to amend the payee details, at no point 
did the banks staff warn him of the potential for fraud. He says that had the bank done so, 
he would have verified the details with the intended beneficiary and the fraud would have 
come to light preventing Hs loss. 
Barclays insisted that H was made aware of the risks when amending the payment details, 
but H was happy to continue. However, it offered £150 compensation for the delay in 
responding to Hs complaint.
H also complained about the beneficiarys bank  which I will call Bank B - and wanted us to 
consider both the complaints together. 
One of our investigators considered both the complaints. In relation to this complaint, they 
were of the view that Barclays could have done more when H made the payment. The 
investigator noted that when the director contacted Barclays to amend the payee, he let it be 
known that he had already set up the payment but he was then asked to change the payee. 
He said: They want it to go to another bank account. The investigator was of the view that 
this conversation ought to have alerted the bank, as this is the usual ploy in invoice 
interception scams. The unusually high payment together with H receiving instructions to 
change the account details on the day the payment was to be made ought to have prompted 
the bank to ask questions about the payment but if failed to do so. 
In addition to this, given the unusually high payment, the investigator was of the view that 
banks fraud system ought to have picked it up for enquiry when the payment was made 
subsequently, but that too didnt happen. Therefore, the investigator said that the bank 
missed an opportunity here to help H prevent their financial loss. They considered it fair that 
the bank compensates H for the loss. 
However, having considered the other complaint against Bank B, the investigator concluded 
that there had been some error or omission on part of Bank B as well. So, they said that it is 
fair that both the banks share the liability equally.  
Barclays accepted partial responsibility and to that extent agreed with the investigators 
opinion. However, it said that H also had some liability in this matter. The bank said that this 
is because H had been negligent and failed to conduct any checks prior to making the 
payment. The bank said that if H had followed its warning, had business controls in place 
and adhered to them, the scam could have been prevented. As such the bank was of the 
view that the liability should be shared equally between H, Barclays and Bank B.
Hs director insisted that at the time of the incident no warning was given by the bank. 
Further the transaction took place as a 'hand holding' exercise during a telephone 
conversation with a member of the bank's staff.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has accepted the investigators conclusion that it could have done more. After 
reviewing what had happened, I too agree - for the reasons given by the investigator. So, the 
remaining issue for me to decide is essentially whether H should bear some responsibility for 
their loss (or a proportion of it) due to any contributory negligence. 
I have considered what Barclays has said in this regard. However, this was a sophisticated 
scam.  When H received the initial email from the fraudster, it appears to have come from 
the genuine email address of the dealer. When H replied to that email, unknown to H the 
fraudsters were able to divert the response to a very similar but slightly different address. 
And when the fraudster responded to H's email, once again it came from the genuine 
address. Further, there was nothing suspicious in the way the emails were written. Thus, H 
had no idea that a fraudster had intercepted their genuine email chain with the intended 
beneficiary. 
Then followed the call with Barclays. Whilst the call was primarily to get help from Barclays 
to change the account details, the director did explain the circumstances in which the 
change was being effected. So, it wouldnt be unreasonable for him to expect that if those 
circumstances were unusual, then the banks staff would alert him to it. That it did not 
happen I think would have given him some assurance.
Barclays says that at the point he changed the payee, the director was provided with a 
warning to verify the account details. It has provided us with the wordings of that warning. 
The director on the other hand insists that no warning was provided. 
It is difficult for me to know for certain whether the warning was provided. Nevertheless, I 
have reviewed what Barclays says was provided. As noted by the investigator, the heading of the warning was New Beneficiary. But to the 
director, the beneficiary wasnt new. He was only amending the details of the existing 
beneficiary. Further, the warning recommended that the account details are verified 
independently with the beneficiary using details held on file or confirmed verbally. In this 
case, the emails came from the genuine email address of the forex dealer (and so, as per 
the detail held on Hs file). And there was nothing suspicious about the emails. H had no 
reason to believe that the instruction did not come from the genuine beneficiary. 
I appreciate what Barclays has said. However, I think in this instance H was a victim of a 
sophisticated scam, and taking together all of the above, I dont think that Hs actions can 
fairly be described as negligent. So, I am not persuaded that H should be asked to bear 
some liability.
H has complained about both Barclays and the beneficiary bank. They want us to consider 
both the complaints, which they are entitled to. The investigator looked into what had 
happened overall, and found that both the banks could have done more to prevent the loss 
to H. So, they concluded that both entities should share the loss equally. Given the 
circumstances, I am satisfied that this is a fair outcome.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, Barclays Bank UK Plc should refund 
€50,000 less 50% of any amount that has already been recovered and returned to H. It 
should also pay interest on that amount at 8% simple p.a. Interest should be paid from the 
date of the transaction to the date of settlement. 
For avoidance of doubt, this is in addition to the £150 compensation the bank has already 
offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman