DRN-1857753
The complaint
Mr C has a number of properties which he insures through AXA Insurance UK plc. Hes 
unhappy with how two escape of water claims have been handled.
What happened
Mr C first noticed a leak in one of his properties in February 2018. He contacted AXA for 
advice about a possible claim for an escape of water from a neighbouring property.
AXA said if the issue was found to be caused by a third party, he could claim from them and 
then theyd try to claim from the third party. AXA suggested Mr C keep details of everything 
he does, and they explained that theyd make a note of his call.
Mr C had a second call with AXA and they explained that a recovery may be difficult unless 
the neighbour knew about the issue, possibly long term, and failed to do anything to fix it. 
AXA said the claim would have to go under his policy. Mr C didnt want to do that as he felt 
his premiums would go up. Mr C suggested hed tell the third party and then wait six months 
so if they dont repair it, hell then try to make a claim and see if AXA can recover. AXA said 
he could do that.
Sometime later, Mr C believed the leak had been repaired and so arranged for the 
necessary repairs to his property so as not to make a claim on his policy.
Unfortunately, it then appeared the leak wasnt repaired because Mr C noticed more 
damage. Mr C contacted AXA again about this in June 2019, making clear he wanted to 
claim from the third party. Mr C also asked if AXA could send a contractor.
Emails were exchanged between Mr C and AXA throughout July and August 2019. AXA was 
asking Mr C various questions about the two claims, and about the use of the property 
throughout the relevant period. AXA explained why this information was required. Mr C was 
also asking AXA various questions about the process and reiterated his desire for them to 
send a contractor.
Mr C was unhappy with the way this correspondence was happening, and he didnt feel he 
was having his questions answered. He was also unhappy at being told two excess amounts 
would be payable. Mr C asked for a complaint to be raised.
This was done and the conclusion reached by AXA was that it had treated Mr C fairly, 
although they offered a different claim handler if he wanted one and said they can let him 
know what is required to progress the claim. AXA also said they could treat the matter as 
one claim.
In the meantime, a surveyor had visited Mr Cs property and provided a scope of works to 
AXA, along with the cost of the repairs.
Mr C did not agree hed been treated fairly so he brought his complaint to our service. Mr C 
has had the repairs done himself and would like to be reimbursed. He would also like 
compensation as he feels AXA accused him of lying, they said he was difficult and they 
made a note of him having had a previous claim declined.
An investigator here looked into Mr Cs concerns. They too felt hed been treated fairly, 
noting that AXA was entitled to ask questions as part of considering a claim. Mr C didnt 
agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think this has all become more complicated than it needed to be. That is in part down to
Mr C reasonably interpreting AXAs early advice that it could be beneficial to wait six months. 
And if the third party hadnt fixed the problem by then there may be a better prospect of 
success in holding them liable. 
I dont think thats necessarily right. But I note that AXA did also explain what the usual 
process is in these circumstances, i.e. for Mr C to claim through them and for them to look at 
whether recovery was possible. Mr C decided not to do that at the time.
Mr C has said that AXA failed to answer his questions, but on reviewing the emails between 
the two I believe they did make an effort to try and explain everything to Mr C. AXA was also 
asking Mr C a number of questions in order to validate his claim.
In an email dated 25 July 2019, AXA asked Mr C for further details in relation to the 
occupancy of his premises. I cant see that Mr C answered those questions. In an email 
dated 26 July 2019, he said it doesnt matter who the tenant was, because the leak wasnt 
his fault.
It is quite normal for an insurer to ask the questions posed to Mr C. Insurers will assess the 
risk theyre covering at each renewal. Without knowing details of the occupancy, AXA 
couldnt say whether they had charged Mr C the correct premium  or whether theyd have 
covered him at all.
AXA explained again in an email dated 6 August 2019 why they required the information 
requested, and that they couldnt progress the claim without it. Rather than provide the 
information requested, Mr C replied to say he wanted to make a complaint.
AXA dealt with Mr Cs complaint and offered him a new claim handler (the complaint 
handler), but it seems he preferred to bring his complaint to our service  which he was 
entitled to do. Mr C felt the new claim handler offered was a junior one, although I note 
AXAs final response letter is signed off as Senior Claims.
Overall, I dont think AXA was being overly difficult with Mr C, they asked him reasonable 
questions, explained why they were being asked and said that they couldnt progress the 
claim without the answers. I dont think this was an unreasonable way for AXA to deal with 
the matter.
Turning to Mr Cs other concerns, I dont think AXA accused him of being a liar. There was 
perhaps confusion over when contact had been made by the surveyor, but I dont think AXA 
was at any point making such accusations  they were just explaining what they believed to 
be the case in that respect.I appreciate what Mr C has said about being described as difficult in AXAs notes. I dont 
think thats helpful language to use and AXA may wish to reflect on this. I understand how 
that would be frustrating to see. But I dont think AXA were saying that so anyone reviewing 
the case would judge Mr C in a different light and treat him any differently. I think it was more 
of an observation that AXA made, on account of Mr C not providing the information theyd 
asked for.
I also see what he says about them noting hed had a previous insurance claim declined.
Mr C believes this to be a breach of General Data Protection Regulations. If hed like that to 
be looked into, I think hed be better raising his concerns with the Information 
Commissioners Office. I appreciate why Mr C didnt like it, especially as he says it isnt true, 
but I havent seen anything to make me think this note has had a negative impact on his 
claim.
Despite all of the above, I dont think all is lost for Mr C. I think that if he were to reengage 
with AXA, and answer their questions, they would consider his claim further. Perhaps he 
could ask if the offer of a new claim handler can still be taken up, given he lost trust in the 
original one. And if Mr C does reengage with AXA, wed expect them to treat him fairly and 
deal with his claim in line with the policy term and conditions and contract of insurance that 
was entered into. This would include consideration of any loss of rent claim too.
That doesnt necessarily mean the claim outcome will be that which Mr C is seeking, but if 
AXA dont settle it in the way he would like, theyll have to explain to him why.
Mr C has more recently said that AXA have increased his insurance premiums and recorded 
incorrect claims information about him. Those issues havent been considered as part of this 
case. That means we havent looked into whether AXA has treated Mr C unfairly in that 
respect. It may be helpful though, if I explain that it isnt unusual for insurers to increase 
premiums when a policy comes up for renewal after a claim. Thats because they view the 
risk as being greater.
I appreciate what Mr C has said about the leak not being his fault, but a leak happened 
nonetheless. And generally, in insurers eyes, they believe that where an insured event 
occurs the likelihood of future events  sometimes even if a claim isnt made. Ive not looked 
into why AXA increased Mr Cs premiums though, so I cant say whether the increase was 
fair or not.
But I wanted to clarify that its generally for insurers to decide how much to charge at 
renewal. And its for customers, who understand the market, to decide whether they want to 
renew or shop around. That said, there can be occasions where an insurer bases their view 
of risk on incorrect information or make mistakes.
I appreciate why Mr C got frustrated and stressed, especially as the leak wasnt his fault. 
But, ultimately, AXA didnt finalise Mr Cs claim because he didnt answer all of their 
questions. And those questions were reasonable, so I dont think Mr C was treated unfairly.
My final decisionIt is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman