The complaint
Mr and Ms M complain that Leeds Building Society mis-sold a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about PPI taken out in connection with a mortgage in 2007. I issued a 
provisional decision for the complaint on 3 April 2020 and I've summarised my provisional 
findings below:
Mr and Ms M considered only one policy was sold when they arranged their
mortgage. But from the evidence I'd seen, on balance I was satisfied that two policies
were sold when the mortgage was arranged.
From what I'd seen and been told, I didn't think I could fairly and reasonably say that
Leeds Building Society didn't make Mr and Ms M aware the PPI was optional.
Mr and Ms M were eligible for the cover given their circumstances and the PPI terms
and conditions.
Mr and Ms M said they would've received work-related benefits if they couldn't work
because of sickness or accident. In particular, Ms M had said she was entitled to sick
pay worth one year's salary. But from the available evidence, I thought it was likely
Ms M was entitled to sick pay for one year, rather than sick pay worth one year's
salary. But even if Ms M's sick pay was worth a year's salary I still didn't think this
meant the society's recommendation to take the policy was unsuitable. That's
because the policy would've paid out in addition to Ms M's employer benefits. So I
thought Mr and Ms M would've had some use for the policy, despite their existing
arrangements.
Mr and Ms M weren't affected by any of the conditions limiting the PPI's main
benefits. So I thought it unlikely they needed better information about the PPI's
exclusions and limitations.
I thought it unlikely Mr and Ms M would've made a different decision about buying the
PPI if they'd had better information about the cost.
I thought it was possible the information the lender gave Mr and Ms M about the PPI
wasn't as clear as it should've been. But I thought it was unlikely they would've made
a different decision about buying the policies if better information had been provided.
Mr and Ms M and Leeds Building Society didn't make any further representations in 
response to my provisional decision.
DRN-1946696What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I've taken this into account in deciding Mr and Ms M's case.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman