DRN-3502978
The complaint
Mr D and Miss R complain Nationwide Building Society failed to offer support to address 
Miss Rs mental wellbeing and gambling addiction.  He said they didnt block her debit card 
as they said they would.
What happened
Mr D said his partner while struggling with her mental health had become addicted to 
gambling. This has caused financial difficulty and meant he hadnt the money to pay their 
day to day living costs. In November 2021, Mr D spoke to Nationwide and asked for help  
he wanted his partners debit card blocked so that she couldnt make any further gambling 
transactions. And he understood a block had been placed on her debit card. So, on her 
discharge from hospital he gave the debit card back to her so she could shop for food. Mr D 
said he found a block hadnt been placed on her debit card and shed used it to make further 
gambling transactions. He complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide said theyd been clear in that they needed Miss Rs authority to put a block on 
her debit card. Theyd looked to refer Mr D and Miss R to their Specialist Support Team. But 
Miss R didnt want her debit card to be blocked. They said theyd suggested Mr D move to a 
sole account, but he hadnt agreed to this.
Mr D and Miss R werent happy with Nationwides response and referred their complaint to 
us.
Our investigator said Nationwide had acted fairly and reasonably in trying to help in the 
situation. He was satisfied Nationwide took appropriate action to prevent further payments to 
the betting company after being informed of the gambling addiction. And theyd been clear 
that they needed Miss Rs permission to put a block on her debit card.
Mr D and Miss R didnt agree. Mr D said Nationwide should have done more as hed told 
them about Miss Rs mental health issues, alongside her gambling addiction. They asked for 
an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
This must be a very distressing time for Mr D and Miss R and they have been open about 
the difficulties they are going through. Mr D said that hed been in touch with GamCare to 
help restrict Miss Rs gambling, but shed still been able to make these transactions. I 
understand hes complained to the gambling companies about this. And had confirmed that 
preventions should have been in place to help Miss R's gambling addiction. In reaching my 
decision I wont comment on the outcome of these complaints. But whether Nationwide has 
acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr D and Miss R when Mr D sought their 
help. 
I can see from the bank statements. Mr D and Miss R have sent to us that there was regular 
gambling activity. So, it wasnt likely Nationwide would think payments to the same business 
was potentially fraudulent or suspicious. When considering this complaint Ive looked at 
whether Nationwide could have done more before Miss R made the payments to the 
gambling company from her debit card after theyd been made aware of her gambling 
addiction.
In November 2021 Mr D told Nationwide about Miss Rs mental health and gambling 
addiction. And in these circumstances, Id look to see:
Did the business refer the consumer to a specialist support team?
Did the business refer the consumer to external support organisations like 
GamCare?
Did the business offer or agree to put any blocks in place on certain types of 
transactions?
I would also look at how Mr D and Miss R responded to the support offered by the business 
and whether despite this, they continued to gamble or spend compulsively anyway. 
Gambling isnt an illegal activity and a consumer can use their own money for certain types 
of transactions. Mr D and Miss R had a joint FlexBasic account with Nationwide. The terms 
and conditions say:
all funds in the account belong jointly to the account holders so each of you is entitled to 
withdraw all of the money in the account, obtain any information about the account or give us 
any other instruction in respect of the account. this means that any one of you may 
withdraw all the money in the account unless one or both of you ask us to stop this from 
happening
When Mr D asked for help I can see Nationwide said they could block online transactions, 
but the debit cards could still be used for contactless and chip and pin transactions. But Mr D 
said he needed the online facility for day to day living transactions and only wanted the 
gambling transactions blocked. Nationwide asked Mr D about GamCare, who offer 
information, advice and support for anyone affected by gambling harms. Mr D was already 
aware, but this hadnt stopped Miss R making gambling transactions.
Nationwide suggested referring Mr D and Miss R to their Specialist Support Team who might 
be able to help further. But they needed the authority of Miss R to do this. Mr D expressed 
his interest as he wanted to get gambling payments blocked. But at this time Miss R was in 
hospital so the referral was put back pending her discharge. While its clear what action Mr D 
wanted Nationwide to take, and Nationwide explained what they could do  block on line 
transactions -  I think it was clear the on-line transactions hadnt been blocked as Mr D 
needed this option for food shopping. And that Nationwide needed Miss Rs permission for 
their Specialist Support Team to be involved. Mr D accepted that while Miss R was in 
hospital she didnt have access to the account so any further action would happen after she 
was discharged.After Nationwide were made aware of Miss Rs mental health issues, they asked Miss R for 
her permission to be referred to their Specialist Support Team, which has the mandate to 
assist Miss R in a way that Mr D required. But Miss R hasnt given her consent to Nationwide 
to be referred to their Specialist Support Team. And she didnt want to put a block on her 
debit card. As the debit card remained in her possession, she was able to continue making 
transactions despite being referred to GamCare. I think its likely that had Miss R consented 
to be referred to Nationwides Specialist Support Team there would have been a
greater opportunity for Nationwide and Miss R to communicate with each other regarding her
account management, mainly because many of her transactions could have been blocked. 
So, I cant say Nationwide acted unfairly or unreasonably as the option to block online 
transactions, which would have prevented the gambling transactions wasnt accepted by    
Mr D, and Miss R didnt consent to the Specialist Support Team becoming involved. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr D and Miss R and I hope Miss R is doing better now 
with the help of organisations like Gamcare and the support they offer for consumers who 
find themselves in difficult situations related to gambling. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman