DRN-3473997
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs M complain that Nationwide Building Society didnt stop fraudulent 
transactions on their account.
What happened
Mr Ss debit card was used to trade on a regulated online platform between December 2017 
and June 2020. The payment in June 2020 didnt go through as Mr Ss card was blocked at 
the time and this led to him having a conversation with Nationwide about all the payments to 
this merchant. Between December 2017 and May 2018 nearly £15,000 was sent from the 
joint account using Mr Ss debit card.
Mr S reported these transactions as fraudulent and said he didnt have an account with that 
platform. However he did say to Nationwide that the platform had emailed him and said he 
did have an account. Nationwide said it was too late to start a chargeback claim and it wasnt 
willing to refund the transactions.
Mr S said he did first raise the transactions in November 2018, but he had no evidence of 
this. And he also said all this started in November 2019, so a year after he says he first 
raised the issue. He couldnt evidence raising anything before the call in June 2020.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She agreed it was too late now for a 
chargeback. And she said that she didnt think Nationwide needed to intervene when the 
payments were first made. She also noted that Mr S had received over £3,000 into his 
account from the online platform. Mr S disagreed with her outcome and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the case, so its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
There are set rules and timescales that have to be followed to successfully make a 
chargeback claim. Mr S doesnt have whats needed; or any evidence he did raise 
the transactions with Nationwide in 2018. This date is also contradicted by his 
testimony that this situation began in 2019. Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly in not 
raising a chargeback claim in 2020, as it was too late by this time.
Mr Ss card was used for nearly £15,000 worth of transactions in six months. If he 
wasnt making these payments, I wouldve expected either him or Mrs M to notice at 
the time, considering the amount spent. For example in late March 2018 over £3,000 
is sent to the platform in one day.
Mr S and Mrs Ms account often receives credits in before the payments to the trader 
are made. And the account receives credits back from the trading platform, which are 
spent by him and/or Mrs M. Neither of these things match the common patterns for 
fraudulent transactions, as when a card is cloned or stolen, its far more common for 
the account to be quickly wiped and no money is returned to it.
Mr S said to Nationwide that he frequently checked his account and the transactions 
on it in 2020. So its unclear why he didnt spot the money sent to the trading platform 
or the credits in at an earlier time. And if he did raise this in November 2018, why he 
didnt follow this up when Nationwide didnt respond to him. In June 2020 call, he 
also doesnt refer to this merchant being the subject of a previous complaint/fraud 
case he had, which I wouldve expected.  
Mr S also said in this call that hed received an email from the trade platform saying 
he had an account with it. Its not clear how they got his email address or why it 
considered this, but it strange that they were able to match up Mr Ss details to an 
account he says he didnt hold.
The payments to the trading platform started off small, so not an amount I think 
Nationwide ought to have intervened on. And by the time they then did increase to 
higher amounts in one day, this was an established payee, which the account had 
also received credits from. So I dont think Nationwide needed to intervene and block 
any of the payments to the trade platform. 
I havent seen plausible and persuasive evidence that Mr S and Mrs M were the 
victims of debit card fraud. So I cant say Nationwide has made a mistake in not 
reimbursing the disputed payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr S and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman