DRN-3711223
The complaint
Miss J has complained about the way esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas' Wheels 
car Insurance handled her claim under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss J was in an accident and her car was damaged. She was going to arrange for it to be 
repaired without involving esure. However, she later decided to make a claim under her 
policy. esure arranged for her car to be taken to one of their authorised repairers. The 
repairer provided Miss J with a courtesy car. Miss J was initially sent a text message by the 
repairer to say her car should be repaired fairly quickly. But she then received a message to 
say it would be written-off. She contacted esure to check this and they confirmed they had 
decided to write off her car. 
esure offered the repairer the option to repair the car at a repair cost of £3,146.85. But the 
repairer declined this, as it didnt think it was economically viable to complete the repair for 
this amount. So, esure decided to leave it as a write-off. They made an initial offer to settle 
Miss Js claim based on a pre-accident market value of £3,873. This reflected a deduction of 
£238 for pre-accident damage. This meant they offered Miss J £3,573 after the £300 policy 
excess had been deducted. Miss E told esure she wasnt happy with this offer and that she 
wanted to retain her car and get it repaired. esure then increased their valuation to £4,126. 
They told Miss J she could retain her car, but they would deduct £1,684 to cover what they 
would lose as a result of not being able to sell the damaged car to their salvage dealer. Miss 
J eventually decided to take what esure had offered and have her car back to get it repaired. 
Miss J then called esure to say the garage had told her they wanted their courtesy car back 
and would be collecting it that afternoon. And that if she wanted her car back shed have to 
collect it, as theyd stripped it. 
esure called the repairer to find out what had happened and tell them they should be 
rebuilding the car, as Miss J was keeping it. The repairer said theyd had to cut the bonnet 
on Miss Js car, as they couldnt get it open, the lights didnt work and there was damage to 
the radiator. And if she wanted the car back Miss J would have to sign a disclaimer and 
arrange collection herself. 
esure told Miss J what the repairer had said. She was unhappy about this and explained the 
car had been inspected by her repairer after the accident and there were no issues with the 
bonnet or lights, it didnt have any warning lights on and it drove fine. The claim handler 
arranged for esures motor engineer to call Miss J. He did this and Miss J explained that she 
felt the repairer had caused problems and had caused more damage to her car, which 
meant she was now unable to drive it. The engineer called the garage and got them to let 
Miss J keep the courtesy car for one more night. He called Miss J back and explained this to 
her. She was happy about the fact she could keep the courtesy car for one more night and 
asked the engineer to send her a picture of the car showing what condition it was currently 
in.
Miss J has said the repairer then came and collected the courtesy car the next day whilst 
she was asleep and sent her a text to say theyd done this and that shed need to return the 
keys. She decided to take the keys back in person and to look at the condition her car was in 
when she did so. Shes said when she got to the repairer they were very apologetic and told 
her all the damage to her car had been done under the direction of esure. They explained 
theyd been told to cut the bonnet to get into the radiator.  
Miss J wasnt happy and spoke to the engineer again. She explained she was given the 
impression her car would be repaired by esures approved repairer. And  if shed known it 
was going to be written-off, shed have arranged for it to be repaired herself. She told him 
that shed arrange for her repairer to pick up the car, as esures repairer had said that it was 
costing them £25 per day to keep it. 
Miss J complained to esure about the additional damage to her car when she got it back and 
the fact she was led to believe by the repairer that her car would be repaired. esure sent a 
final response letter to Miss J referring to the fact their engineer had spoken to her to explain 
the process for estimating the cost of the repairs to her car and why it had to be stripped. 
And esure also apologised for any confusion caused by the message she received saying 
her car was going to be repaired. 
Miss J still wasnt happy and complained to us. When doing so she said she wasnt happy 
about the fact shed been told her car was going to be repaired, only later to be told it was a 
write-off. And she explained she was unhappy the repairer had caused more damage to it. 
She also said she was unhappy that the settlement amount she was offered for her car by 
esure was not enough for her to afford to buy a suitable replacement. She added that she 
was unhappy that the courtesy car was picked up from her without her knowledge. 
One of our investigators considered Miss Js complaint. He said esures valuation was fair, 
but he didnt think they were entitled to deduct £238 for pre-accident damage. He also 
thought esure had deducted too much to reflect the salvage value and suggested they 
should refund £193 to reflect this. But he didnt think esure or their repairer had done 
anything wrong with regards to their communication prior to writing off Miss Js car, the 
additional damage to it or in respect of the courtesy car. 
esure werent happy with the investigators view. They felt hed addressed things Miss E 
hadnt complained about to them; specifically the valuation of her car, the amount theyd 
deducted for salvage and the issues with the courtesy car. And they said that  irrespective 
of this  they didnt agree there was anything wrong with the deductions for pre-existing 
damage or the salvage value. 
The investigator went back to esure to explain Miss J had complained about the valuation of 
her car when she complained to us and shed raised concerns about the salvage value and 
the courtesy car with esure prior to them issuing their final response. So he felt it was 
appropriate to address these issues. He then issued a further assessment in which he said 
he now accepted that esure was entitled to deduct £238 for pre-existing damage, but he still 
didnt think what they had deducted for the salvage value was fair. 
esure didnt agree regarding the salvage value and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I reviewed the complaint and wrote to esure to say that I thought they should pay Miss J a 
further £704.85 to reflect the fact they were willing to pay £3,146.85 to their repairer to have 
her car repaired. I explained that I didnt think they should have made a deduction for pre-
accident damage, but  even allowing for this  the market value theyd used to settle Miss 
Js claim was appropriate. I also said they should pay Miss J £100 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her by their failure to manage her expectations at the 
outset and by their repairer collecting the courtesy car without telling her. esure havent agreed to do what I suggested and so I am issuing this final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Miss J that esure didnt manage her expectations very well at all. Their repairer 
sent her a message indicating her car would be repaired on 11 August and if this date 
changed they would let her know. So, she understandably assumed this was what was 
happening. It wasnt until 19 August that she got messages telling her that her car would be 
written-off. One of these had a link to the valuation for it. I dont think this process was 
helpful, as Miss J was never told her car would need to be fully inspected before esure could 
confirm that it was definitely going to be repaired. And I think the fact Miss J didnt know it 
might not be economic to repair her car and then suddenly found this out was distressing for 
her. And because I think this was due to poor management of expectations by esure and 
their repairer due to what I see as a poor communication process, I think esure should pay 
Miss J £50 in compensation for the distress she experienced because of this. 
Miss Js policy states that if esure decide her vehicle is a total loss, which is the case when it 
is written-off, they will pay the market value. The market value is defined as the amount the 
policyholder could have reasonably expected to sell her car for on the open market. The 
policy also says if esure does this the insured vehicle will become their property. In reality 
the final offer esure made to Miss J was based on what it would cost her to replace her car in 
the retail market, not what she could have sold it for. This approach is in line with what I 
consider to be good industry practice. And Ive checked the market value esure used in the 
guides used by car retailers and I think it was appropriate. I dont think they should have 
made a deduction for pre-accident damage, as the sort of things they referred to as this were 
really  in my opinion - just wear and tear for a car of the age of Miss Js car. But  they 
ended up with the correct market value for her car, which was over 10 years old and 
probably in below average condition for its age due to the dents in the doors in particular. 
I should also make it clear that esures decision to write off Miss Js car had nothing to do 
with the cost of repairing the dents and stone chips on her car. The estimate they got from 
their repairer did not include anything for these. 
Once esure had decided Miss Js car was a write-off, they had the right to take possession 
of it because of what it says in Miss Js policy. And, if Miss J wanted to keep it, esure had the 
right to deduct what they would have got for the damaged car from their salvage dealer. This 
is because they shouldnt lose out financially when agreeing to waive their right to rely on the 
policy terms and let Miss J keep her car. And  in this situation  if they dont deduct what 
theyd have got from their salvage dealer they would lose out. 
In Miss Js case, esure have shown they would have got £1,684 and this is why it deducted 
this amount and the policy excess and paid Miss J £2,142. However, this all assumes that it 
was fair and reasonable for esure to write off Miss Js car. And I dont think it was. This is 
because they were willing to pay their approved repairer £3,146.85 to repair it. And, in view 
of this, I think to treat Miss J fairly, once they knew she wanted to have her car repaired they 
should have offered her this amount less the policy excess i.e. £2,846.85 or agreed to pay it 
to her repairer. I say this because if esure were willing to pay this amount to their repairer to 
have the car repaired, I cant really see any reason why they shouldnt have been willing to 
pay this to Miss J or her repairer. 
Therefore, I think that as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to Miss Js complaint, 
esure should pay her the difference between the £2,142 they paid her and £2,846.85 i.e. £704.85. esure put a salvage marker on Miss Js car when they decided to stick with their 
decision to write it off. And, Im not going to ask them to remove this, as their repairer said 
they couldnt repair the car for the amount suggested, so technically it was still a write-off. 
As I mentioned earlier, Miss J has told us when her car was inspected before it went to 
esures repairer the bonnet could be opened and the lights worked, whereas when she got it 
back from them the bonnet had been cut open and the lights didnt work. However, I doubt 
this had much impact on the cost of the repairs to Miss J, as the bonnet was quite badly 
damaged anyway and needed to be replaced and this would have involved work on the 
lights. So, I dont think esure needs to pay anything extra for these items. 
Miss J has said esures repairer collected the courtesy car whilst she was asleep and asked 
her to then return the keys. The repairers records dont really show whether this was 
actually the case. But, Ive got no reason to doubt Miss Js testimony to this effect. And I 
think the repairers actions were inappropriate and this caused Miss J distress. esure are 
responsible for this, so I think they should pay her a further £50 in compensation to reflect it. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, esure should pay Miss J £704.85 towards the repairs for her 
car and a total of £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Js complaint and require esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas' Wheels 
car Insurance to pay her £704.85 for the repairs to her car and £100 in compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman