DRN-2509678
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
 
What happened
In 1998 Mr and Mrs L bought a PPI policy at the same time as they took out a 
mortgage. They recall the sale took place on the phone, but the banks records show it was 
in one of the banks branches. The policy gave them protection against accident, sickness 
and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for the cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me. They raised that it was Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G) that sold them the 
PPI, but C&G is part of the Lloyds Banking Group so Lloyds has taken responsibility for the 
sale  and therefore the complaint. For this reason I refer to Lloyds through this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory (as some of it is here) I have reached my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities, so in other words based on what I think is 
most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs L say PPI was never explained and the bank insisted they had to have it. Lloyds 
disputes this. I cant know what was said in the meeting, so I dont know how the PPI was 
presented to Mr and Mrs L. But Lloyds has been able to provide Mr and Mrs Ls signed PPI 
application form and direct debit mandate from the sale. And theres nothing on those forms 
that I think could reasonably have led them to believe the PPI was mandatory. I have 
thought carefully about their comments, but I also have to take into account how long ago 
the sale was and how that might impact what they recall. Overall, I think its most likely 
Lloyds made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs L agreed to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, so it had to make sure it was right
for them. I think it was based on what I know of their circumstances at the time of the sale.
Mr and Mrs L told us they were entitled to between six- and 12-months sick pay but the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to their work benefits for up to 12 months for each successful 
accident and sickness claim. It also offered up to 12 months redundancy pay. Mr and Mrs L 
were borrowing a large sum over a long period secured on their home. Given the serious 
consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the cover wouldve been
useful for Mr and Mrs L if they were sick, had an accident or lost their job(s).
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs L all the information they needed before they
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear, but the PPI was reasonably
priced for the benefit it offered and it was apparently affordable. And I dont know that it 
pointed out the main things the policies didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs L dont appear to have 
been affected by any of those things (such as the type of employment contract or any pre-
existing medical conditions). So I dont think better information wouldve changed their 
decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs L lost out because of any problems with this sale. I know 
they are also unhappy with how Lloyds managed their complaint, but as I am not upholding it 
the rules I have to follow dont give me the power to consider the banks complaint handling. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman