DRN-3767584
The complaint
Mrs N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have unfairly refused to refund over £51,000 she 
lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything
again here. In summary, Mrs N was approached by a scam investment broker after clicking 
on an advert on a well-known newspapers website. This broker, who I will call B, convinced 
her to invest her money under the pretence of increasing her monthly income through crypto 
currency trading. Mrs N made the following payments.
Transaction 
numberDate Merchant Amount Running Total
1 26 October 2020 RaveByflutterwave £250 £250
2 29 October 2020 www.Bitcoin £5,100 £5,350
3 09 November 2020 Binance £2,000 £7,350
4 09 November 2020 www.Bitcoin £8,000 £15,350
5 09 November 2020 www.Bitcoin £5,000 £20,350
6 25 November 2020 Binance £20,000 £40,350
7 26 November 2020 Binance £11,000 £51,350
HSBC initially identified the first payment made on 9 November 2020 as suspicious 
(although it hasnt been able to explain why) which resulted in it sending a text message to 
Mrs N asking her to confirm the payment was genuine, which she did. 
After the remaining transactions, Mrs N says she was told that if she increased the amount 
she had invested further, she would get an increased daily gain. As this number changed 
from what she was told midway through the scam, she investigated B further and discovered 
that it was potentially a scam. She attempted to withdraw her funds from her account but 
was unable to do so.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought that HSBC should have done more when 
transaction 4 was attempted. This is because it was the second payment on the same day to 
a crypto exchange and was out of character for Mrs Ns account. The investigator thought 
that the scam would have likely been prevented if HSBC had contacted Mrs N at the point of 
transaction 4 and asked probing questions about the nature of the payment. HSBC 
disagreed, and argued that even if the money should be paid back to Mrs N, there should be 
a deduction from any refund of 50%, because it feels that Mrs N contributed to her own loss. 
So the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator let me explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs N authorised the disputed payments she made to the various
crypto-exchange platforms. It is my understanding that once she purchased crypto, the funds 
were subsequently transferred to another separate crypto wallet, of which I understand the 
scammers had access to. And it was from that crypto wallet that the scammers extracted the 
money (in the form of a crypto currency) from. So the payments were requested by Mrs N - 
to purchase crypto - using her legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC. 
The starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed. However, Ive considered whether 
HSBC should have done more to prevent Mrs N from falling victim to the scam, as there are 
some situations in which a bank should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of 
character.
In relation to the first three payments, I think overall that they were not so out of character 
that HSBC should have intervened. Though it is arguable that it maybe should have queried 
payment 2, because of the amount of money that was being transferred out of the account. 
But given that Mrs N had made a large transfer a few months before, I think it is somewhat 
understandable why HSBC did not intervene on that occasion.
I do think however, that transaction 4 should really have prompted intervention from HSBC. I 
say this because it was the second transaction in a day; was for a larger amount; was to an 
international payee; and there were several indications that she was being scammed, which 
HSBC ought reasonably to have been aware of.
Had HSBC contacted Mrs N about this transaction to check the funds were not being 
transferred as part of a scam, I think its likely that a scam warning would have prevented 
Mrs N from transferring any more money to her crypto wallet. 
If HSBC had contacted Mrs N and asked her further questions and for more of the
basic surrounding context, I think its likely she would have explained what she was
doing and that she was making an investment after being approached by broker, where she 
was being told to send money to the broker via crypto-exchange platforms. She would have 
likely told them that the broker was making trades on her behalf, which is also another 
hallmark of this type of investment scam HSBC should have recognised these 
circumstances of being indicative of a scam and have acted to provide Mrs N with a warning.
Overall, Im satisfied that a warning to Mrs N from her trusted bank would have
probably led her to discover various scam warnings online. I appreciate there wereno FCA warnings about the merchant on 9 November 2020, but one was added the following 
day. And I can see there were other websites warning people about investing with B around 
this time as well.
Even if Mrs N had not worked out that the broker she was talking to was fraudulent, it is
likely that a warning would have at least alerted her to the common issues arising in
relation to cryptocurrency scams, which in turn would have revealed the
truth behind the supposed brokers representations. This would have probably
stopped Mrs N in her tracks. So, but for HSBCs failure to act on clear triggers of
potential fraud or financial harm, Mrs N probably wouldnt have continued to make the 
payments on her credit card.
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still
take responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Mrs N was
to blame for what happened; that she did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or
any harm. She has explained that she believed that the company she was dealing with was 
legitimate and that it would not have been able to advertise on a well known newspapers 
website if it was not a legitimate company. HSBC has said that due to Mrs Ns job she 
should have known better about possibilities of scams and that the return she was being 
offered was too good to be true.
I have carefully considered this but Mrs N has explained that whilst she works in the 
investment part of the financial services industry, her role is more administrative, rather than 
her being a broker or financial advisor. So I dont think she necessarily would have more 
knowledge than normal about what would or would not constitute as a scam.
Overall, I do not think Mrs N could have foreseen the risk that she was dealing with a 
scammer and the trading account she was viewing was likely to be a simulation. And as 
HSBC has pointed out, there were no regulatory warnings in place about the brokers at the 
time Mrs N started making the payments. So, in the circumstances, I do not think it would be 
fair to reduce compensation on the basis that Mrs N should share blame for what happened.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds after Mrs 
N reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the bank 
raising a chargeback dispute. This is also relevant to the first three payments where Ive 
concluded an intervention was not required. 
However, in these circumstances, Mrs N used her debit card (for the first five transactions) to 
pay legitimate crypto exchanges, before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammer. So, she wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim for these card 
payments in these circumstances, because the companies she paid had provided the 
services as intended. It was B that scammed Mrs N but she did not pay them directly and 
HSBC could only have processed chargeback claims against the parties that received the 
payments. Therefore, I do not think HSBC were under any obligation to raise a chargeback 
for Ms N either.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct HSBC Bank UK PLC 
to:
(1) Refund Mrs N payments 4,5,6 and 7 
(2) Deduct any refunds that she received 
(3) Pay 8% simple interest per year on these payments from the date she paid them to 
the date of settlement less appropriate tax.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part and direct HSBC Bank UK PLC to pay the 
redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman