DRN-3755089
The complaint
Via a professional representative, Mr and Mrs C complain that Everyday Lending Limited, 
trading as Everyday Loans, lent to them irresponsibly and without carrying out proper 
affordability checks. They would like all the fees and charges associated with the loan 
refunded, as well as any negative information removed from their credit file.
What happened
In October 2017 Everyday Loans approved a loan of £7,000 for Mr and Mrs C, which 
was scheduled to be repaid at approximately £339 per month over a term of 48 
months. The loan was intended to consolidate debt, specifically several credit card 
accounts. When assessing the application, Everyday Loans asked Mr and Mrs C about 
their financial circumstances; reviewed pay slips and bank statements; and carried out 
a credit check before approving the lending.
Mr and Mrs C appear to have managed the repayment without difficulty and ultimately 
settled the loan early.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and thought that Everyday Loans didnt do anything 
wrong when it granted this loan. Mr and Mrs C disagreed, and asked an ombudsman to look 
at their case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it, broadly for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator.
I need to first look at what information Everyday Loans had when considering Mr and 
Mrs Cs loan application, and then what information it should have gathered, given 
what it knew about Mr and Mrs C and their circumstances. If I think it should have 
gathered more information, to carry out more in-depth checks, Ill go on to consider 
whether more information ought to have led it to conclude that the borrowing was not 
sustainable for Mr and Mrs C.
Everyday Loans asked Mr and Mrs C about their income and expenditure, and indeed 
broader financial circumstances. (In fact, the contact notes suggest several fairly in-depth 
conversations.) They evidenced their monthly earnings of over £4,000 through bank 
statements, and Everyday Loans estimated their basic living expenses to be around 
£1,000. Im satisfied that their housing costs were minimal and deducted from Mr Cs 
salary, so those living expenses seem reasonable. The credit check it carried out showed 
Everyday Loans that Mr and Mrs C had provided an accurate picture of their debts. In 
fact, I can see a detailed assessment on the application file of each of their debts at the 
time, showing settlement figures and monthly repayments. Its clear that Mr and Mrs C 
had a lot of unsecured debt, spread across many different accounts and lenders. But Im 
satisfied that it was all taken into account in Everyday Loans assessment.
In all the circumstances of this case, including the amount and term of the loan; Mr and Mrs 
Cs income; and the absence of any flags for concern on the information it had, I think 
Everyday Loans checks went far enough.
Ill now summarise what those checks showed.
The bank statements show well-managed accounts with no evidence of concerns. 
The main joint account was always in credit and typically had a fairly healthy 
balance, suggesting the existence of reliable disposable income. Mr and Mrs C 
each had separate sole accounts, which again raised no issues. Whilst Mr and Mrs 
Cs representatives have highlighted unpaid direct debits as a sign that this 
borrowing wasnt affordable for them, I can only find one instance of that in the 
months leading up to this borrowing. And the evidence doesnt suggest that 
returned direct debit was as a result of there being insufficient funds in the account. 
The direct debit in question was very small, and there was a healthy balance in the 
account at the time. So whilst it isnt clear why that payment was returned, I dont 
think its because it wasnt affordable for Mr and Mrs C.
Both payslips and the bank statements confirm the income of around £4,100 on 
which Everyday Loans based its assessment.
The credit check showed no difficulties for Mr and Mrs C in managing their 
admittedly substantial unsecured debt.
There is no evidence that Mr and Mrs C needed more money than Everyday Loans 
had accounted for to service debts. Or that their monthly living expenses were 
significantly higher than Everyday Loans income and expenditure (I&E) had 
estimated. Once the nominated credit card accounts were settled with this 
borrowing, and this repayment taken into account, I accept that Mr and Mrs C had a 
monthly repayment burden of nearly £1,600. But in their particular circumstances 
(i.e. their income and minimal housing costs) I dont think that amount was 
problematic or unaffordable.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say that the existence of payments to debt 
collectors, shown on the bank statements, again demonstrates that this borrowing 
wasnt sustainable. Its clear that Everyday Loans recognised this issue when 
assessing the application. The amounts are taken into account fully on the I&E, and 
the contact notes show a discussion about this with Mr and Mrs C. They explained 
to Everyday Loans that those defaults were historic, and had occurred at a time 
when things were very difficult for them in terms of family health and Mrs C being 
unable to work. As the credit check showed no recent credit problems, that 
explanation seems entirely plausible. I also note that many of the accounts with 
debt collectors were seemingly very small by this time and indeed would appear to 
have been on the verge of being fully settled.
There is evidence, particularly from Mr Cs sole account bank statement, of 
repeated gambling. (Although one of the organisations cited by Mr and Mrs Cs 
representatives as being evidence of a gambling problem was in fact Mrs Cs 
employer, and it is clear it only deposited money into the account.) The contact 
notes show that Everyday Loans raised this with Mr and Mrs C, who apparently 
said that Mr C was going to stop. In any event, the bank statements show that 
essentially Mr and Mrs C could afford Mr Cs gambling. So the fact that he chose to spend money in this way doesnt necessarily mean that it was a sign of financial 
difficulties.
In the round the checks and assessment showed that, whilst Mr and Mrs C were carrying a 
large amount of unsecured debt, and had clearly historically had significant difficulties 
managing credit, they had sufficient income to be able to afford this repayment without 
borrowing elsewhere. And there were no signs of financial difficulties. It therefore follows that 
I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Everyday Loans doesnt 
need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman