DRN-3447823
The complaint
Mr B complains Soteria Insurance Limited took too long repairing his car properly, the 
courtesy car given wasnt suitable, and the customer service was appalling.
Mr Bs wife Mrs B is representing him in this complaint, so Ill also refer to her in this 
decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
On 27 February 2020 Mr B was unfortunately involved in an accident. Following this the 
bumper to his car needed to be repaired. This repair wasnt done properly, leading to 
significant delays. Mr B wanted it replaced given the issues. And Mr B was also unhappy the 
courtesy car he was given wasnt of a suitable size. Mr B says he was asked to pick up the 
courtesy car with a 30 minute deadline when he had no way of getting there, and Soterias 
approved repairer  who Ill call K  didnt call him back when they said they would.
In May 2020 Soteria agreed the repair hadnt been done properly, but it was their choice 
whether to repair or replace, and they felt repairing was the right approach. They said Mr B 
was entitled to a courtesy car from K for the duration of the repairs but there is no policy 
entitlement to a like for like car under the policy terms. They did though agree the 
communication around Mr B having to pick up the car from the hire car company K arranged 
wasnt good enough. And although they couldnt see Ks phone records, they accepted K 
hadnt called Mr B back when they said they would.
In October 2020, Mr Bs car was now fully repaired, and he raised further concerns which 
Soteria listed as his car having to be returned twice, the size of the courtesy car, and 
Soterias claims department had been unprofessional.
In November 2020, Soteria said theyd already addressed Mr Bs concerns regarding the 
hire car  and couldnt see the claims department had acted incorrectly. But they were sorry 
his car had to be returned twice since the May 2020 letter.
Unhappy with this Mr B asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so and felt 
£300 compensation would be fairer to settle the matter.
Soteria accepted this outcome, but Mr B didnt. After this time, Mrs B took over 
communicating with us.
She explained there was at least 8-10 weeks worth of delay, in part caused because K 
damaged Mr Bs car further. She said she appreciated were not here to punish financial 
businesses, but theyd been financially punished as a result of the delays. She said a search 
on hire car companies shows the difference in price between the car Mr B was given, and 
the car he had  she felt this was a fair starting point for the calculation of compensation.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally insurance companies will offer cover as allowed under the policy terms. As thats 
the contract thats been agreed, its not usually unreasonable. But, in situations where 
insurance companies have made an error leading to further impact or financial loss, then it 
can be right to step outside of those policy terms. My overarching remit is to consider things 
on a fair and reasonable basis. This means Im not bound by what the policy terms say if I 
think itd be fairer for Soteria to do more than they have done.
For reasons Ill go on to explain, Im currently planning on upholding this complaint, and 
requiring Soteria to do more.
Length of time the repairs have taken
The accident was on 27 February 2020, the car was due to go in for repairs on 
10 March 2020, and a report wasnt produced until 16 October 2020 to say itd been properly 
repaired.
Clearly, far too long in the ordinary course of things for what Mr B considered a minor repair.
 
Ive seen K failed to satisfactorily complete the repairs on two occasions. This led to Mr B 
having to arrange for it to be repaired at another garage, on a third occasion.
On this third occasion, it seems Mr Bs car went in for repairs at the end of July, and then it 
wasnt confirmed until 16 October 2020 that the repairs had been done properly. Some 
elements of the repairs required parts to be ordered and delivered. My understanding is prior 
to Covid-19  when the repair originally should have happened  it was easier to get parts. 
So, by repairing the car later, it seems at least possible some of this time Mr B waited would 
have been avoided, had K completed the repairs properly.
Although Mr Bs car was driveable, on each occasion it went in for repairs he had to be given 
a courtesy car. Ive covered this in more detail below  but for what I understand Mr B 
thought was a straightforward repair, which I cant see Soteria ever disagreed with  the final 
bill came out at over £6,000 when it was repaired properly.
Ive got no clear evidence of what Mrs B has alleged  which is that K damaged Mr Bs car. 
But I do accept thats possible.
Ultimately though, whatever the reason, Mr Bs car took far too long to be repaired  and a 
good proportion of that was within Soterias control. Ill consider at the end of my decision 
what amount of compensation is fair.
Courtesy car
I can see Soteria have explained Mr B was entitled under the terms of the policy a small one 
litre car  so not similar to his own large executive car.
Mr and Mrs B have said this issue isnt in dispute, as thats what the policy terms say. But 
the point is theyve not helped Mr B enough with courtesy cars during the repairs when he 
needed it.Ive seen in Soterias notes on 8 September 2020 Mr B told them hed had to get a hire car 
to take one of his Daughters to University, as the courtesy car he had at the time was too 
small. He said the cost was around £140 for three days. But, on 19 September 2020 he was 
taking another of his Daughters to University  and would have to hire a car again.
I can see Soteria then arranged a bigger car for Mr B in an effort to help him for this second 
University journey. I think this was a helpful and appropriate thing for Soteria to have done  
but, unfortunately, they didnt appear to discuss exactly what Mr Bs needs were. So, the car 
they arranged was something Mr B said was still too small  and as a result he had to make 
two trips.
Ive already found above Soteria have taken too long to complete the repairs. And, Im 
persuaded by Mrs Bs arguments that had they completed them properly, Mr B wouldnt 
have incurred these costs. I dont think comparing what Soteria have effectively saved as a 
result of not getting a courtesy car similar to Mr Bs is fair. But, I do think itd be fair to 
consider all reasonable costs Mr and Mrs B have incurred regarding this. 
So, as a starting point, it would seem fair to refund the cost of the hire car Mr B got which he 
said cost £140. And, I think itd be fair to ask Mrs B to explain what other costs she and Mr B 
wish to claim for. To be clear, Id ask Mrs B to get back to us with those costs, which Ill then 
determine what I think is reasonable based on what shes provided  and share my thoughts 
on this with both parties for their comment before issuing my final decision. 
As I said above, I do think Soteria tried to help Mr B by arranging a bigger car. But I cant 
see any record of Soteria discussing Mr Bs needs to make sure the replacement car they 
were arranging was suitable. So, even though Soteria were trying to help Mr B, unfortunately 
I think this has caused further inconvenience to him  given hes said he had to make two 
trips instead of one as a result of this. Again, Ill come back to this at the end.
Customer service
I understand Mr B raised concerns about K not calling him back  which Soteria accepted 
without evidence. But, Soteria didnt accept their customer services had been 
unprofessional.
Ive reviewed the claim notes provided by Soteria. These show details of phone calls and 
emails between Mr B and them. Ive reviewed these carefully and cant see any suggestion 
Soteria have at any point been unprofessional. I think the circumstances of this claim are 
unfortunate, but theyve communicated with Mr B appropriately and tried to help him when 
they could. 
So, although I think its reasonable to accept Soterias position K did let Mr B down regarding 
their customer service, I agree with them theyve not acted unprofessionally themselves.
Summary
To sum up then, Ive upheld Mr Bs complaint about delays for the repairs, the courtesy car, 
Ks communication  but not Soterias communication.
Soteria in total offered £200, our Investigator recommended £300  but I think £500 would 
be a fair amount. I say this because for eight months Mr B was dealing with a situation which 
should have been resolved relatively promptly. Its clear Covid played its part, and Ive seen 
occasions where Soteria have asked Mr B what hed like to do  and his choices have led to 
perhaps slightly longer delays than otherwise might have happened. But, ultimately, the repair probably should have been properly completed in March 2020  rather than seven 
months later in October 2020.
Ive also factored in the inconvenience hes told Soteria about in September 2020  when 
having to drive one of his Daughters to her University.
Thinking about the reasonable costs, as Ive mentioned above, Ill consider anything Mrs B 
wishes me to. Ill add itd be helpful if Mrs B could back up any claims she makes with an 
invoice or other relevant evidence for those costs  showing the dates they were incurred. 
Without evidence of costs, it may not be appropriate for me to award them. And, as I said 
above, Ill share my thoughts on this with both parties before I issue my final decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Soteria replied, and said they agreed with my provisional decision  but wanted to see the 
evidence of any costs in advance to agree them.
Mrs B replied, and said she accepts my findings. She wasnt though able to provide any 
evidence of the costs shed incurred due to her and Mr Bs personal circumstances.
I arranged for us to explain to Soteria, in advance of this final decision, that I was still 
planning on awarding the £140 costs  due to Mr B mentioning it during the dispute, and 
because of their personal circumstances. And, now I knew what I was awarding, Id also add 
8% interest on this figure.
Although we explained this to Soteria, and asked for their comments, none were received by 
the original deadline  or the further extension granted to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs B accepted the outcome I reached, and Soteria didnt reply to our services last 
contact by the deadline, Ive seen no reason to change the outcome Ive reached. Soteria 
will need to pay compensation and costs as set out below.
Putting things right
I require Soteria to:
Pay Mr B £500 compensation
Refund the £140 Mr B had to pay for three days of hire costs
Pay 8% interest* from the date Mr B first mentioned these costs, to the date of 
settlement
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Soteria to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Soteria must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax theyve 
deducted if he asks them for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Soteria Insurance Limited to carry out the actions in the 
Putting things right section above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman