DRN-2694479
The complaint
Mrs B believes that only some of the money she brought to a Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) branch was deposited into her account. She believes the rest was stolen.
What happened
On 5 October 2020, Mrs B visited a Barclays branch and used an automatic teller machine 
(ATM) to deposit an amount of money that at the time she believed to be £1,000. The money 
got stuck in the machine and a member of staff removed money from the machine in the 
back of the branch. Mrs B says the money wasnt counted out before her. The member of 
staff confirmed to Mrs B that she was depositing £1,000 and it was paid into her account.
When Mrs B was at home, she realised the envelope she'd taken into the branch should've 
had £2,000 in it. She realised she had got two envelopes confused.
A complaint was logged, and Barclays sent a final response. It said that having reviewed the 
closed-circuit television (CCTV) and the cash machine reports, it didnt believe the cashier 
had stolen Mrs Bs money. It couldnt share the CCTV as it thought this would be a breach of 
General Data Protection Regulations.
Mrs B wasn't happy she hadnt been able to review the CCTV herself and wanted a third 
party to check this to see if there was evidence that £1,000 had been stolen by Barclays so 
she came to us. 
The investigator viewed the CCTV and didnt think there was any evidence to say Barclays 
had made an error in how it had handled her complaint. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She raised several questions mainly about the CCTV and what could be 
seen and the processes that would normally be followed in the event of cash getting stuck in 
an ATM.
The investigator issued a second view. He set out in detail the timeline of the footage he had 
viewed. He said that from 12:03:40, when the notes were removed, until 12:05:10, when the 
member of staff returns to the desk, he was always able to see all the cash. So, he found it 
unfeasible that £1,000 had been removed from the machine and not shown to Mrs B, based 
upon the CCTV he had seen. He found it reasonable that the cash was counted on a 
counting machine immediately after being removed from the ATM by the member of staff. 
This is because it would be important for a member of staff to make sure all money removed 
from an ATM was accurately checked as quickly as possible. Barclays keeps the counting 
machine next to the two ATMs for this reason  which he thought was a reasonable thing for 
it to do. So, he didnt think hed expect it to do anything more about this.
On the CCTV hed seen the money counted twice by the counting machine. This gave him 
confidence the member of staff was making sure an accurate count was made. He thought 
the reason the notes werent counted in front of Mrs B - as she thought they should have 
been - was that she had already confirmed the amount of money she was looking to deposit 
was £1,000. The member of staff was confident the amount she had removed from the ATM 
was £980 (with the additional £20 she still had). And as the amounts matched, he thought 
the member of staff was happy to pay it directly into her account without further delay to her.
In order to uphold the complaint, he said he would need to see enough evidence that the 
member of staff removed £1980 from the ATM and kept £1,000 of it from Mrs B. And based 
on the information available to him, he thought that there was no evidence to show a 
member of staff doing this. Mrs B mentioned that she had envelopes of money at her house 
with £1,000 and £2,000 in but couldnt provide any evidence to say the envelope she 
brought in that day contained £2,000. So, on balance of probabilities, he thought that the 
amount of money in the envelope she brought to the branch was £1,000 and that was what 
was paid into her account by the member of staff. He therefore didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld.
Mrs B didnt agree and asked several questions which are concerned with what normal 
practice in the circumstances that occurred that day is and around what can and cant be 
seen on the CCTV.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has asked a series of questions. The implication of Mrs Bs questions is that if the 
member of staff didnt follow the standard process for dealing with such incidents or the 
CCTV doesnt prove only £1,000 was deposited then I should find in her favour. That isnt 
right. I need to look at all the evidence and decide what is most likely to have happened.
I think the case is solved by asking one question: Do I think it is more likely than not that all 
the money Mrs B tried to deposit using the ATM was deposited into her account that day? 
The answer to that question is: yes. This is also the answer Im confident Mrs B would have 
given if Id asked her as she left the branch.
Even after watching the CCTV I cant be certain how much money Mrs B was seeking to 
deposit. But I dont have to be certain I have to come to a decision based on what I think is 
most likely to have happened. If Mrs Bs version of events is to be believed a member of 
staff realising that she was trying to deposit £2,000 but understanding she only thought, she 
was depositing £1,000 quickly stole the additional £1,000. That is, of course, possible. But it 
requires someone to be both dishonest and incredibly quick thinking. It also needs someone 
to be very confident that at no point would either the CCTV or Mrs B pick up on their theft. 
Compared to that version of events, I must consider that Mrs B was right initially, she did 
only bring £1,000 into the branch to deposit. And having looked at all the evidence I just 
think it is most likely she brought only £1,000 in to deposit into her account. Nothing in the 
CCTV or the statements from either her or the bank employees persuades me otherwise.
Mrs B is unhappy that the cash wasnt counted in front of her. I think it would have been 
better if it had been. But the fact that it wasnt doesnt persuade me that Mrs B brought in 
£2,000. 
Mrs B has also asked whether the member of staff followed the banks policy. I havent 
asked to see the policy because Im not persuaded that even if the policy wasnt followed to 
the letter, I would change my mind. As I said above, I just think it is more likely that Mrs B is 
mistaken about the envelope contents.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman