DRN-3974895
The complaint
Mr T has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under his home insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
Mr T made a claim under his home insurance policy in April 2021 after he had problems in 
relation to a leak in a water supply pipe. When Aviva got its agents to look into the claim it 
didnt deal with the claim satisfactorily to the extent that the repairer used incorrect piping 
that led to Mr T getting an enforcement notice. So Mr T complained to Aviva about this.
Aviva looked into the complaint and apologised for the delay, poor service, and errors it 
made and offered £400 compensation for this. But Mr T remained unhappy and felt that 
Aviva was looking to shift blame to its agents as opposed to taking responsibility for the 
problems caused. And Mr T also made a secondary complaint and Aviva offered £500 by 
way of compensation as there had been a breach of GDPR in the way it handled requests 
for data and the subsequent delays involved. Aviva also highlighted it would look to address 
any training needs identified by the failings and apologised. But Mr T remained unhappy, so 
he complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T and although he agreed that Mr T hadnt been 
treated very well and that he had faced a fair degree of stress and inconvenience he thought 
Avivas steps to put things right were reasonable. He thought the £900 compensation (total) 
was fair and in line with the kind of awards this Service would ordinarily make so he didnt 
ask Aviva to do anymore. 
As Mr T didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have a fair degree of sympathy for the position Mr T found himself after 
Aviva clearly failed to repair his property correctly. It must have been extremely worrying to 
have been given an enforcement notice, through no fault of his own, and to have worried 
about any effect a possible contamination of his water supply could have caused to his 
friends daughter. But I think Avivas offer of £900 compensation feels fair, Ill explain why. 
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
It must have been extremely frustrating and disappointing to have found out the repair was 
not only incorrectly done but that Mr T faced possible enforcement issues. And for it to have 
dawned on Mr T that the repair could have impacted the health of people he knew. However, 
I cant award any compensation for what could have happened and fortunately nothing 
happened either in relation to poor health or enforcement and things were eventually put 
right. 
I know Mr T Feels he faced obstruction and misleading statements from Aviva, and I can 
understand this. But my aim is to try and put Mr T back into the position he would have been 
but for the error and I feel Aviva have done this by offering the level of compensation it has 
offered. And our investigator has made Mr T aware that we are not the regulator and cant 
tell firms how to run their businesses, but Im pleased to see Aviva has looked to learn 
lessons from Mr Ts case in looking to undertake training for its staff. If Mr T has any further 
concerns here he will have to advance them with the regulator. 
So, I know Mr T feels that people he knew were put in danger because of the repair going 
wrong but I feel the level of compensation offered covers the worry and stress about this 
possibility (as fortunately nothing untoward happened). And I note Mr T has said that the 
compensation level is of minimal importance to him anyway, so I think £900 (total) feels fair 
in acknowledgement of the poor service, mistakes made, delay, and the way Aviva dealt with 
Mr Ts data requests. 
Given all of this, I think Avivas offer of compensation for the errors caused in this case is 
fair. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr T, who clearly faced a difficult time 
because of the way Aviva handled his claim and, understandably, doesnt want anyone else 
to face the problems he has faced. But I can only look at the particular circumstances of his 
case, I cant punish businesses for any mistakes they may make and, ultimately, I think 
Avivas steps to put things right seem reasonable.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Aviva Insurance Limiteds offer of £900 
(total) compensation is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman