DRN-3304687
The complaint
Mr I complains about the customer service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc after he 
reported fraudulent activity on his credit card.
What happened
In mid-2021, Mr I phoned HSBC after noticing a suspicious transaction on his credit card. 
HSBC said it would cancel his credit card and issue him with a new one. That evening, Mr I 
tried to pay for his groceries using his debit card, but the card was declined. When he called 
HSBC the following day, it confirmed it had cancelled his debit card by mistake. Mr I says 
this left him in a difficult position as it was the day before a religious festival. He says he had 
to borrow cash from friends and family for presents, food, petrol and day to day spending.
After Mr I complained to HSBC it paid him £100 to apologise for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr I didnt think this was enough to put things right, so he asked our 
service to consider his complaint.
Our investigator looked into Mr Is concerns, but she didnt think his complaint should be 
upheld. She thought the £100 HSBC had paid Mr I was reasonable in recognition the error 
made and the inconvenience caused to him.
Mr I disagreed with our investigators view. He said he didnt think the £100 HSBC paid was 
sufficient for the inconvenience caused. He said he didnt have access to his funds for 
around a week. He said he wasnt able to get cash in branch because his HSBC branch 
doesnt offer a cashier service. So, his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Is complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC has acknowledged that it made an error when it cancelled Mr Is debit card instead of 
his credit card. Its apologised for this and has paid Mr I £100 in compensation. So, Ive 
needed to consider if thats sufficient to put things right. 
Mr I says it was embarrassing for him when he was unable to pay for shopping because his 
debit card was declined. Mr I also says he had to borrow cash from family and friends and 
transfer the funds to them. 
I appreciate that being unable to use his debit or his credit card caused Mr I some frustration 
and inconvenience. But Im satisfied that HSBC took steps to put things right for Mr I as soon 
as it was made aware of its error. HSBCs records show that Mr Is debit card was active four 
days after he phoned to let it know it had been cancelled in error. And Mr I says hed 
received both cards around a week after theyd been cancelled. So, I think the matter was 
resolved reasonably quickly.
Having considered the impact of HSBCs error on Mr I, I think the compensation its paid him 
is reasonable and in line with what our service would usually award. So, I wont ask HSBC to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman