DRN-3756737
The complaint
Two linked companies Ill refer to as M have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Limited 
(RSA) unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim after their businesses 
were impacted by Covid-19.
Mr H, who a director of both the linked companies, has brought the complaint on Ms behalf, 
through a representative. For ease, Ill refer to all submissions as being from M. 
What happened
M held a business interruption policy with RSA. The policy schedule shows the two linked 
companies that Ive referred to as M as the policyholder. One of the companies owns several 
retail shops. M claimed on their policy after their businesses were impacted by Covid-19.
RSA said the policy didnt cover Ms claim. RSA said the policy covered business 
interruption as a result of Covid-19 occurring at the premises. RSA said that M had not 
provided sufficient contemporaneous evidence to show Covid-19 occurring at the premises 
before the Governments restrictions came into force. 
Unhappy with RSAs response, M brought their complaint to our service. They said one of 
their employees (Mr H2) had visited their retail shops before the lockdown restrictions. Hed 
had symptoms of Covid-19 and had self-isolated at home in line with Government guidance 
in March 2020. Widespread testing was not available at that time and Mr H2 cannot provide 
any additional evidence. M doesnt consider that the high threshold RSA required of 
contemporaneous evidence is required under the law. 
In support of their position, M referred to Supreme Courts judgment in the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) business interruption insurance test case and to the FCAs Final Guidance 
document of 3 March 2021. 
Our Investigator looked into Ms complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
M had shown it was more likely than not there was a case of Covid-19 at their business 
premises. 
M didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ms businesses. However, I am not going to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why 
and in doing so I will focus on the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Ms claim.
The relevant part of the policy is the Infectious Diseases extension, which is found in the 
policy schedule and provides business interruption insurance cover. It says:
The word Damage is extended to include closure of the Premises or part thereof on the 
order or advice of any local or governmental authority as a result of an outbreak or 
occurrence at the Premises of:
A) Any human contagious or infectious disease an outbreak of which is required by law 
or stipulated by the governmental authority to be notified
Covid-19 is a notifiable human contagious or infectious disease. So, for this extension to 
provide cover for Ms claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to 
be as a result of an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. 
As M says, widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the 
Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms 
of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce 
a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
M has referred to Supreme Courts judgment in the FCA test case and the FCAs Final 
Guidance, in support of their position that they do not consider the law requires M to provide 
contemporaneous evidence to show a case of Covid-19 at the premises. They dont consider 
they should have to meet this high threshold under the civil burden of proof, being the 
balance of probabilities. 
M also makes the point that it is not necessary for them to show that the occurrence of a 
case of Covid-19 at the premises forced the premises to close, as the Investigator 
suggested, given the judgment of the Supreme Court in the FCA test case. M refers to the 
Courts decision that each case of Covid-19 was an equally effective concurrent cause of the 
Governments decision to introduce the March 2020 restrictions. So, M says that it needs 
only to show the occurrence of one case of Covid-19 at the premises.  
I see the point that M is making. I have considered the Supreme Courts judgment in the 
FCA test case and the FCAs Final Guidance to which M has referred. But I share the 
Investigators view that M has not shown it was more likely than not, on balance, that there 
was a case of Covid-19 at their business premises before they closed their retail shops. It is 
necessary for M to demonstrate this for the policy to respond. 
M says their employee Mr H2 visited their retail shops in the period before lockdown. M says 
that Mr H2 is a witness of fact, who is prepared to give evidence in court if necessary. In 
summary, Mr H2 says:
He travelled to Ms office and to each of Ms retail premises in the period 
16 March 2020 to 18 March 2020, as part of his usual role and working pattern. He 
felt unwell with symptoms of a high temperature, a new continuous cough, and a 
change to his sense of smell and taste.While at Ms office on 19 March 2020 he felt fatigued and returned home. He stayed 
at home the following day, 20 March 2020, and in the evening his symptoms were at 
their worst, including hot sweats. His symptoms had lessened by 
25/26 March 2020. 
M says that given Mr H2s symptoms, which could have been present but asymptomatic for 
several days before the onset of physical symptoms, there is a high probability that he had 
Covid-19. M says that Mr H2s evidence is direct personal and specific evidence of 
Covid-19 at the premises. M has referred to a decision made by one of my Ombudsman 
colleagues, where the Ombudsman recognised a pragmatic approach should be taken as 
evidence that it was likely someone had Covid-19 at the premises before they closed.
I accept Ms point that Mr H2s testimony is evidence, and I have carefully considered his 
statement. I have explained why a pragmatic approach is necessary. But I dont find that 
Mr H2s testimony is sufficient, in the circumstances of this complaint, to persuade me that 
there was more likely than not a case of Covid-19 at Ms premises. Ive not seen any 
contemporaneous evidence to show that Mr H2 was at the premises on the above dates. 
M says that they dont have any other evidence to show Mr H2s work pattern that would 
show his presence at the premises or sickness absence records to show that he returned 
home early on 19 March and remained at home on 20 March 2020.
I appreciate Ms point that Mr H2 had a supervisory role in the business, visited all the shops 
on a weekly basis and that he can show he covered many miles using the companys 
vehicle. Also, M says that Mr H2 used the telephone rather than electronic communication 
methods such as texts and email to report his absence. 
However, even if I were to accept that Mr H2 was at the premises in the period up to and 
including 19 March 2020, based on Mr H2s testimony alone, I still dont consider that I have 
seen sufficient evidence to persuade me, on balance, that it was more likely than not there 
was a case of Covid-19 at the premises. And aside from Mr H2s testimony, there is no 
additional evidence to support that he more likely than not had symptoms of Covid-19. 
M has also provided evidence of the prevalence of Covid-19 cases in the vicinity of their 
shops in March 2020. M says that given the footfall in their shops, being in excess of 1,000 
customers per week, they have done enough to show, on balance, that there was more likely 
than not a case of Covid-19 at the premises in the period before they closed the shops in 
line with the Governments restrictions. M has also told us about someone who very sadly 
died from Covid-19 in May 2020, who had been a regular customer at their shops. 
I am sorry to hear about Ms customer. M has not, however, provided any evidence that she 
was at their shop/s before they closed. I dont think the prevalence of Covid-19 in the local 
area is enough for me to conclude, on balance, that it is more likely than not there was an 
occurrence at Ms premises. While there was limited testing at the time, M hasnt provided 
any other evidence to suggest someone at their premises had Covid-19. Ive noted Ms 
comments about RSA having applied an unfairly high threshold to satisfy the burden of 
proof. But I havent seen enough to persuade me there was more likely than not, on the 
balance of probabilities, an occurrence of Covid-19 at Ms premises. So, I dont think RSA 
reached an unfair conclusion that the business interruption extension does not cover Ms 
claim. 
M says that in line with the FCAs final guidance, RSA should have put forward 
counter-evidence in response to its clients evidence because RSA did not accept that 
evidence being sufficient to discharge the burden of proof. The Final Guidance required 
cogent evidence to show Covid-19 in the relevant policy area. I have found that M has not 
shown it was more likely than not that there was a case of Covid-19 at the premises. So, I dont consider that any failure by RSA to put forward counter-evidence in support of its 
decision to turn down Ms claim has resulted in an unfair outcome to Ms claim. 
I appreciate my decision will be very disappointing to M but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman