DRN-1074996
 
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited has recorded a claim on his motor insurance 
policy as a fault one. 
What happened
Mr As car was stolen and someone was later convicted of its theft. In light of this hes 
unhappy that UKI has recorded this as a fault claim on his record.
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said an insurer will record a 
claim on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange database (CUE) if it is unable to recover 
all of its costs in a claim. Thats what happened here because the police wouldnt give UKI 
the third partys details and it couldnt recover all its costs from that person. So, even though 
Mr A wasnt to blame for what happened, UKI has acted fairly by recording this claim as a 
fault one on CUE. 
Mr A remains unhappy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
I understand how frustrating it is for Mr A to see UKI recording this claim as a fault one 
when, as he says, he wasnt to blame for what happened. But by recording it as a fault claim 
UKI isnt saying that he was liable or responsible for what happened. Its in fact reflecting 
that it hasnt, for whatever reason, been able to recover all its outlay on the claim from any 
third party. 
Thats correct as here UKI hasnt been given details of the third party by the police and so it 
hasnt been able to pursue that person for its outlay. And we arent able to require the police 
to disclose this information to UKI as Mr A would like.
As a result I think UKI has properly recorded the claim on CUE as a fault one.
Consequently although I understand Mr As strength of feeling and frustration, I dont think 
UKI has done anything wrong. And, although I sympathise with the unfortunate situation Mr 
A has, through no fault of his own, found himself in, I cannot fairly or reasonably require UKI 
to amend his record and note this claim as a non fault one on the CUE database as hed 
like.
Overall I dont see any reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman