DRN-2786086
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc wouldnt allow him to set up a payment plan 
on an interest free basis.  
What happened
Mr P opened a credit account with Capital One in 2016. Since that time, Mr P has 
encountered financial difficulty and enlisted the help of a debt charity to help him manage his 
financial affairs. 
In 2017, the debt charity contacted Capital One on Mr Ps behalf and arranged a temporary 
interest free repayment plan  until July 2019 - with Capital One, to help Mr P to recover his 
financial position. 
In November 2020, the debt charity again contacted Capital One on Mr Ps behalf and made 
an offer of monthly payment based on what Mr P could afford. At that time, Mr Ps account 
was up to date and the payment amount offered by the debt charity was more than the 
minimum payment due on the account. So, the offer was accepted, and a new payment plan 
was set up, but this time one which was interest bearing.
A few months later, in February 2021, Capital One wrote to Mr P and advised that there had 
been a miscalculation and that the payment plan agreed wouldnt clear the outstanding 
balance within the necessary timeframe, and that a new payment plan needed to set up as a 
result. 
Mr Ps representative contacted Capital One about this, at which time it was explained by 
Capital One that the letter shouldnt have been sent and that Mr Ps current payment plan 
was fine. It was also confirmed to Mr Ps representative that the ongoing payment plan does 
incur interest. Mr P wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Capital One looked at Mr Ps complaint, but they explained that the interest free payment 
plan had been a temporary measure offered to Mr P in 2017 because he was in financial 
difficulties, and that given that Mr Ps recent offer of payment was more than the minimum 
payment due on the account, such an interest free payment plan was no longer appropriate. 
So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that it wasnt 
unfair or unreasonable for Capital One to have resumed charging Mr P interest on the 
account, so they also didnt uphold that aspect of Mr Ps complaint. However, they felt that 
the letter that Capital One had sent to Mr P wrongly informing him that his payment plan 
needed to be reset had caused Mr P some inconvenience, and they recommended that 
Capital One make a payment of £30 to Mr P to compensate him for this.
Capital One accepted the recommendation put forward by our investigator, but Mr P 
remained dissatisfied. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a customer is in financial difficulty, such that they are unable to meet the contractual 
financial obligations of their account, it would be expected by this service that a business 
would treat that customer with a degree of sympathy and positivity so as to help that 
customer recover their financial position to the point where they can, once again, meet the 
financial obligations of their account.
I think that in 2017, Capital One did that here. They took on board the information about Mr 
Ps financial circumstances provided to them by the debt charity that was working on Mr Ps 
behalf and offered Mr P a temporary interest free repayment plan that was suitable for him at 
that time. 
Mr P contends that a similar interest free payment plan should be offered to him presently, 
following the debt charity contacting Capital One again in November 2020 and again 
providing them with information about his current financial circumstances, as well as an offer 
of monthly payment based on those circumstances. 
However, as mentioned, an interest free payment plan would be expected by this service to 
be agreed to by a business as a temporary measure only, to enable a customer to recover 
their financial position to such a degree that they can continue to meet the financial 
obligations of their account.
And the offer of monthly payment made by the debt charity, in consideration of Mr Ps 
present financial circumstances, is such that the offer is a larger monthly amount than would 
be required as a minimum monthly payment on the account. This means that the offer of 
payment exceeds the minimum contractual financial obligations on the account.
Its difficult therefore not to conclude that Mr P has recovered his financial position such that 
he is able to resume meeting the financial obligations of his Capital One account. And I say 
this because the offer of monthly payment from the debt charity demonstrates that this is the 
case.
It must be remembered that a credit account by its nature entails the repayment of money 
borrowed on the account along with a rate of interest agreed to and accepted by the 
customer at the time that they accepted the account.
It follows then that its difficult to see why Mr P shouldnt pay interest on the current 
repayment plan, given that the debt charity have confirmed that he is able to make payments 
which exceed the minimum financial contractual obligations on the account, and given that 
repayment of the money borrowed on the account along with applicable rate of interest is 
something to which Mr P agreed to at the time that he opened the credit account.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Ps complaint or asking Capital 
One to take any further action at this time relating to this. However, Im in agreement that the 
letter sent to Mr P wrongly informing him that his plan needed to be recalculated did cause 
Mr P some inconvenience and I feel that the £30 compensation recommended by our 
investigator, and agreed to by Capital One, represents a fair and reasonable resolution to 
this complaint. So, I will be upholding this complaint on that basis.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr P was wanting, but I hope that he can 
understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made the final decision that I have.   
Putting things right
Capital One must pay Mr P £30 as compensation for the inconvenience he has incurred.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman