DRN-4206044
The complaint
Ms B complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) have blocked a transfer she attempted to make
from her current account to another account she holds with a different bank.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case as it was my intention to come to the same 
outcome as the investigator, however I explained my reasoning in more detail  because of 
this, I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond with any further information they 
wanted me to take into account before I issued my final decision on the matter.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
On 10 December 2022, Ms B attempted to make a transfer online from a Classic Plus
account she holds with TSB, to another of her accounts with a different bank. However, the
payment was blocked for additional security checks. Ms B contacted TSB to complete the
transfer  TSB then sent Ms B a text message with a security code to complete the transfer,
but Ms B didnt receive the text message because it was sent to an incorrect mobile number.
Because Ms B didnt receive the text message with the security number, TSB then sent her
a form by email, asking her to complete the form using a smart phone and return it with
photographic ID before it could process the transfer. Ms B said she couldnt do this because
she doesnt have a smart phone, and so TSB said Ms B could visit a branch instead. Ms B
didnt want to do this and so the transfer hasnt yet been processed.
Ms B says she has made a transfer to these same bank details before, and for higher
amounts, which havent been blocked. She also says that TSB holds a mobile number for
her that she has never had. Ms B feels that TSB have committed fraud by not sending her
the money and it has breached its contract with her. Ms B also states she doesnt want to fill
out a form or go into branch to verify her identification to complete the transfer.
To put things right, Ms B would like TSB to process the transfer and pay her £100 per week
for the time she has been without the money.
TSB responded to Ms B, but it didnt uphold her complaint. TSB explained that it was normal
for it to carry out security checks on transactions  this is to protect both Ms B and itself from
potential fraud. And because Ms B still hasnt verified her identity, it hadnt done anything
wrong by not completing the transfer.
An Investigator looked into Ms Bs complaint, but they didnt find that TSB had done anything
wrong. They explained that in line with the terms and conditions of the account, it was fair for
TSB to have completed security checks on the transfer. They also explained they didnt think
it was TSBs fault it didnt have an up-to-date mobile phone number for Ms B. The
Investigator explained that Ms B would need to provide TSB with the information it had
asked for in order for the transfer to be processed.
Ms B didnt agree with the Investigator and made a number of points which I have briefly
summarised below:
She has experienced continuous issues with TSBs online banking system. TSB have 
been fined by the regulator in the past for IT issues.
There was no irregularity in the transfer Ms B was attempting to make and so it 
shouldnt have been flagged by the fraud team.
The Investigator insinuated that Ms B hadnt kept her contact details up to date  
there is no evidence to support this. TSB have recorded an incorrect number for her, 
and she has never had this number.
Ms B states that she doesnt have a smartphone and so she cant return the form 
with photographic identification as per TSBs process. Ms B also adds that she 
doesnt live near a TSB branch.
Because Ms B didnt agree with the Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to
make a decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I dont intend to uphold Ms Bs complaint. I
appreciate this decision may come as a disappointment to her, however I will explain my
reasons below.
Firstly, the terms and conditions of Ms Bs account state:
When can we stop you using your card or security details?
We dont want to do this, but there are some reasons why we can stop you using your card
or security details.
We can do either of these if:
Were worried about the security of your card or security details
We think your card or security details are being used by someone else or are at risk 
of being used by someone else
You do not pass our security checks for example by entering your security details or 
using a One Time Password we send you when you try to use your debit card online
We think fraud is happening on your account
Theres a significantly increased risk that you wont be able to pay us back any 
money you owe us
If you do not provide us with identification to allow us to verify your identity within a 
reasonable time after weve asked you to do this
So, in line with the terms and conditions of the account, TSB can stop the account being
used if its concerned about the security of the account.
TSB has explained that the transfer flagged with its security team for additional checks. So, I
dont find it was wrong of TSB to stop the transfer going through until it could carry out the
additional checks. I find TSBs explanation that the checks were to prevent fraudulent activity
to be reasonable.
I have noted Ms Bs comments that she had made the same transfer before, and for higher
amounts. I dont know the exact reason why the transfer was flagged for additional security
checks, and I dont think I need to know this to come to a fair outcome. TSB can doadditional checks on any transfer that takes place from the account  even if the same or
similar transfer has been completed before. So, in the context of the checks being carried
out to protect Ms B from potentially fraudulent transactions, I dont currently find that TSB did
anything wrong by flagging the transaction and asking Ms B further identification questions
before processing the transfer.
Ill move on now to what happened when the security code didnt arrive to Ms Bs phone.
TSB has said that it sent the text message to a mobile number ending in 0213. Ms B says
that she hasnt ever had a mobile number ending in these digits and so TSB are at fault
because it has recorded her number incorrectly. I have done some further enquiries here to
find out what happened and when the mobile number was recorded. TSB hasnt been able
to tell me when this number was recorded for Ms B. It has been able to show me that it
recently updated her home phone number. And said that because theres no record of Ms B
updating her mobile number, then its likely this number was provided by Ms B at application
stage.
Its difficult to say exactly whats happened here  and why TSB has a mobile number for Ms
B that she says shes never had. I have noted though that when Ms B spoke to the TSB
advisor on the phone, and she hadnt received the security code she said, you may have an
old number and she said, I dont use this account very often, I doubt they have updated the
new mobile phone number.
I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that Ms B had updated or tried to update her
mobile number prior to the call taking place. And based on Ms Bs own words during the call,
she believed that TSB held an old number for her. So, on balance, I dont find it likely the text
message would have ever arrived at Ms Bs current number, because shes said she doubts
her number had been updated. And at the moment, I think it more likely the number wasnt
updated because Ms B didnt provide TSB with her new number. And in the absence of any
persuasive evidence that TSB incorrectly recorded her mobile number or didnt update the
number at Ms Bs request, I cant safely conclude that TSB has done anything wrong.
Because Ms B didnt receive the text message with the security code, TSB sent Ms B an
email requesting her to complete a form with a smartphone to verify her identification. But
Ms B says that she doesnt have a smartphone and so she cant do this.
Ive been in touch with TSB to understand the importance of a smartphone in the verification
process  and to understand how significant this is in the identification process. TSB has
confirmed that a smartphone must be used as part of the adobe form process, because a
live photo is required of the identity document and the customers face. I dont find what TSB
have said here to be unreasonable. And I can understand now the importance of why a
smartphone must be used for this process. Its a matter for TSB what security measures it
puts in place. And given its explanation, it doesnt appear to be an unreasonable
requirement on its part. So, I dont think that TSB has been unreasonable in not offering Ms
B another way to complete the identification process remotely.
TSB has explained that another option for Ms B would be to go into branch. Ms B doesnt
want to do this because she says she doesnt live close to a branch of TSB. I accept that it
might not be convenient for Ms B to travel to a branch  and that this wouldnt be the
preferred way for her to resolve matters. But given that Ms B says she doesnt own a
smartphone so she cant verify herself this way, I dont find the alternative (for Ms B to go to
branch) to be unreasonable.
I have noted that Ms B has raised concerns about TSBs online systems and the problems
shes had using it over the years  shes also mentioned that TSB have been fined by the
regulator in relation to this matter. This wasnt included in Ms Bs initial complaint to TSB, orthis service, so I wont be considering this point any further, as TSB need to opportunity to
investigate matters before I can make any judgement. However, I will add that this service
can only consider individual complaints and cases, so we cant make a finding on TSBs
systems as a whole  only how these potentially affected Ms B.
TSB didnt have any further comments for me to consider. 
Ms B responded to say that she disagreed with the provisional decision, and I have 
summarised her main points below:
TSB havent explained or provided information on why the transaction was flagged 
for security checks. And in the absence of such evidence, it should be concluded that 
TSBs systems dont work properly.
TSB should and could have used her landline number to send the security code to  
as this had been updated recently.
Ms B feels that TSB has dealt with her as though she was trying to steal money from 
it. The delay in completing the transaction has led to negative consequences.
My provisional decision didnt consider Ms Bs suggestion that TSB send her the 
funds by cheque to her home address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint, for much of the same 
reasons as outlined in my provisional decision. However, I will address Ms Bs points below. 
TSB dont have to provide an explanation as to why a transaction was flagged for additional 
checks. This information is commercially sensitive, and it wouldnt be appropriate for TSB to 
disclose information about how its security processes work. I dont conclude that not 
disclosing why the transaction flagged means that TSB has done anything wrong or that its 
systems arent working correctly.
TSB sent the security code to the mobile number it had recorded on file for Ms B  I dont 
find this to be unreasonable. Many landline phones wont have the ability to be able to 
receive codes, so I dont find that TSB attempting to send the code the mobile number 
recorded on file to be unfair or unreasonable. I appreciate this has resulted in Ms Bs 
account being blocked because she didnt receive the code. But I dont find that TSB has 
done anything wrong here. 
Im sorry to have read that Ms B felt insulted by how TSB has dealt with her. I have listened 
to all the calls Ms B had with TSB when the account was blocked, and Ive looked at all of 
the correspondence that was sent to Ms B  I dont think she has been treated unfairly. From 
what I have heard and seen; TSB has just tried to verify Ms Bs identity so it could process 
the transfer. Security procedures are in place to protect both TSB and its customers from 
potential fraud, and I dont find the implementation of these procedures to be unfair. Or that 
TSB has been unfair in how it has asked Ms B to verify her identity.
I wont be asking TSB to send a cheque to Ms Bs home address. The account is blocked 
until Ms B verifies her identity. TSB has already explained how Ms B can do this. TSB may 
consider Ms Bs request for a cheque to be sent to her once her identity has been verified. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman