DRN-4053183
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not refund him money he says he lost as a result 
of falling victim to a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mr D says he was contacted by someone via a messenger app about a job opportunity.  In 
short, this resulted in Mr D falling victim to a scam whereby he made approximately 12 
payments (in June 2022) to a cryptocurrency exchange which I will refer to as B in this 
decision.  Mr D made these payments using his debit card and they amounted to almost 
£14,000.  In July 2022, Mr D discovered he had been scammed and contacted Lloyds Bank 
requesting a refund.
Lloyds Bank declined to issue Mr D a refund.  One of our investigators considered Mr Ds 
complaint and did not uphold it.
As Mr D did not accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
In summary, I am not persuaded that Lloyds Bank should refund Mr D the transactions in 
question for the following reasons:
I do not find that the transactions were so unusual that Lloyds Bank should have 
stopped them and spoken to Mr D before releasing the payments.  I say this 
because:
oThe transactions  relative to the activity on Mr Ds account  were not 
significantly high enough to trigger Lloyds Banks systems.
oThe transactions did not follow an out of character pattern.
oThe transactions were made to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange.
I can see that a call between Mr D and Lloyds Bank took place on 30 June 2022 
(before he made his final three payments to B).  This telephone call was a result of 
Lloyds Bank blocking payments Mr D had attempted to make to B.  Having listened 
to the call, it could be argued that the call handler could have probed Mr D a bit 
further about the payments.  However, I am not persuaded this would have made a 
difference in the circumstances.  That is, even with further probing, I take the view 
that, on balance, Mr D would have still alleviated any concerns the call handler may 
have had; and then proceeded with the payments he did.  For example, during the 
call:
oMr D said he was being very careful about the matter himself.
oMr D confirmed he opened his B account, everything was in his name and 
that the person assisting was not taking any money from him.
oThe call handler provided Mr D with several scam warnings  but he assured 
her all was well.
oThe call handler told Mr D, amongst other things, Usually we find if someone 
contacts somebody via [social media] then they are trying to take their money 
OK  this isnt whats happened, no?  Mr D responded confirming that this 
was not the case  despite the circumstances in which the scammer 
contacted him (see above).
Moreover, by the time this telephone call occurred, Mr D had issues with trying to 
make withdrawals from his account with the scammer  however, despite this, he 
continued to make further payments.  This shows that at the point of the call, Mr D 
was deeply under the enchantment of the scammer.  Therefore, I am not satisfied, on 
balance, the call handler would have been able to dissuade Mr D from continuing.
I am satisfied that Lloyds Bank acted fairly by not raising a chargeback on behalf of 
Mr D.  I say this because the cryptocurrency exchange Mr D paid (B)  carried out 
their services as intended (conversion and transfer).  Therefore, Mr D had no 
reasonable prospect of success under the chargeback scheme against B.  Further, 
Lloyds Bank would not have been able to raise a chargeback against the scammer in 
this case, as Mr D did not pay them directly.
I do sympathise with Mr Ds situation  particularly given where he says the money he lost 
came from; and for the impact he says this matter has had on him since.  However, taking all 
the above factors together, I am of the view that Lloyds Bank has acted fairly and reasonably 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Therefore, I will not be asking it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman