DRN-4336799
The complaint
Mr C complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) provided no 
assistance when he approached it for help in connection with problems hed had with the 
purchase of a motorcycle.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 18 August 2023, in which I set out the 
background to the complaint, so I will cover this only in summary in this final decision:
Mr C saw a motorcycle advertised on a well-known e-commerce website (E). He 
contacted the seller and arranged to buy the vehicle for £3,195. The seller couldnt 
accept credit cards so he suggested Mr C use a digital wallet operator (P) to pay 
him. Mr C did this via Ps Friends and Family payment option. The payment was 
funded with Mr Cs Virgin credit card, which he had set up as a funding source with 
P.
Mr C reported having a lot of problems with the motorcycle. He was concerned about 
how it had been maintained and he contacted the seller with several concerns. These 
included the oil being black, the coolant being empty, and a fluid leak. Initially the 
seller offered to take the vehicle back and give Mr C a refund, but eventually he 
stopped communicating with Mr C. Other problems have been reported with the 
motorcycle by Mr C, including a seized engine and cracked piston.
Mr C contacted E but he says they wouldnt help him because of the way in which 
hed purchased the motorcycle. He then contacted Virgin to make a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Virgin didnt look into this 
however, and instead explored whether it could reclaim the money Mr C had paid via 
the process known as a chargeback.
Virgin decided it couldnt help Mr C in this way, because hed used Ps Friends and 
Family payment option. Mr C complained to Virgin but it would not change its 
decision, only offering £100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. Mr C says this 
led him to financial ruin and he became insolvent under a Debt Relief Order (DRO). 
Mr C then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
investigators looked into it and she didnt think it could be upheld. Mr C asked to appeal and 
the case was passed to me to decide. 
In my provisional decision I said there were generally two main ways in which a card issuer 
(such as Virgin) could help a customer if something went wrong with a purchase theyd 
made using their credit card. These were attempting a chargeback, or honouring a claim 
under section 75 of the CCA. I went through each method in turn. On the matter of the 
chargeback I noted Virgin were required to follow the rules of the card scheme (Mastercard) 
when deciding whether or not to attempt one. I then said:
Ordinarily a chargeback can be attempted where someone has purchased goods with their 
card and they are defective or not as described. However, the payment Mr C made with his 
card was made via a mechanism for sending money to individuals (i.e. the Friends and 
Family option), and my reading of the rules is that this would not be treated as a purchase 
of goods and would be ineligible for the type of chargeback Ive described above. Virgin was 
therefore not wrong to say it couldnt help Mr C via the chargeback process.
I then went on to consider the matter of the section 75 claim. Section 75, I observed, could 
allow Mr C to claim against Virgin in respect of a breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the seller. I noted technical arguments had been advanced as to why section 75 protection 
didnt apply to Mr Cs purchase, but that I was also of the view that there were other aspects 
of the purchase which meant a successful section 75 claim would be difficult to make:
When Mr C bought the motorcycle, the evidence suggests the person he bought it from 
may have been a private seller as opposed to a trader. This is important because when a 
person buys from someone who is not a trader, they do not benefit from the same level of 
consumer protection. In particular, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) does not apply to 
such purchases, and it would be the Sale of Goods Act 1979 (SGA) which applies instead.
Under the SGA, there are no specific quality standards that goods are expected to meet 
if they are sold by a private seller. Goods could be faulty for example, and the seller would 
not necessarily be in breach of contract. However, if a sale is by description (which it was 
here) then the SGA says its an implied term of the contract that the goods will meet 
their description. If they do not, the seller will be in breach of contract.
Mr C has said the seller advertised the motorcycle as having been recently serviced and 
in excellent condition with no faults, but he has also noted that the description in the advert 
is no longer available. Ive seen a copy of the advert and it does seem to be the case that 
the seller replaced whatever description hed given with the word SOLD once a sale had 
been agreed. However, without the original description it would be difficult to conclude that 
the motorcycle was not as it had been described.
If the seller was a trader then the CRA would apply and it would have been an implied 
term of the contract that the motorcycle would need to have been satisfactory quality when 
it was sold to Mr C. Normally to show that something is not satisfactory quality there 
would need to be evidence that it was faulty and that the faults were either present or 
developing at the point it was sold, or that it was not sufficiently durable. Mr C has described 
several faults and said he sent all his evidence to Virgin. Our investigator requested and 
received this evidence from Virgin. Having reviewed it, I dont think it is sufficient to show 
that the motorcycle had faults. It shows that Mr C complained about a low coolant level, the 
colour of the oil, a potential fluid leak, and the lack of a receipt for a service, but there are no 
photos or reports which might help to prove these things. And I note that some of the more 
serious issues Mr C mentioned to our investigator, such as a cracked piston and seized 
engine, are not referred to in the complaints to the seller.
Concluding, I said that whether or not section 75 applied to Mr Cs purchase, I was unable to 
say that the seller was in breach of contract. However, I was mindful that Mr C may have 
been able to provide further evidence regarding the faults, so I went on to consider the 
technical arguments which had been made in more detail.
I noted that one of the key conditions which needs to be met for section 75 to apply to a 
purchase, is that there needs to be what is called a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
agreement in place. I summarised what this meant as follows:
For there to be a DCS agreement in place for his purchase, Mr Cs payment for the 
purchase needs to have been made under pre-existing arrangements between the creditor (Virgin) and the supplier (the motorcycle seller) or in contemplation of future arrangements 
between them. I will simply refer to these together as arrangements.
I outlined what arrangements, in their most typical sense, looked like:
The typical example of arrangements between a creditor and supplier is where the 
creditor has made an agreement with the supplier that the supplier can accept its credit 
cards. Under these arrangements the creditor agrees to pay the supplier on presentation of 
a credit card by the debtor, the supplier agrees to provide the goods or services to the 
debtor, and the debtor agrees to repay the credit provided by the creditor. Matters are often 
more complicated than this however, and various intermediaries can be involved between 
the creditor and the supplier.
I explored the question of intermediaries further, touching on some of the case law which, in 
my view, had meant arrangements could be defined rather loosely and could certainly be 
indirect between the creditor and the supplier. This, I reasoned, meant that payment via 
intermediaries such as P did not necessarily mean there was no DCS agreement in place.
However, there was a problem in this case, and that was the fact Mr C had used the 
Friends and Family payment method on Ps platform. On this I said the following:
As our investigator observed, P made it clear at the point of payment that the Friends 
and Family option for sending money was not intended for buying goods or services. 
Indeed, Ps User Agreement prohibited Mr C from paying for goods and services in this 
way.
While I think that in some circumstances arrangements should still be deemed to 
exist between the creditor and supplier when payment is made via an intermediary like P, I 
think it is difficult to conclude that this should extend to specific methods of payment which 
are not intended for buying goods or services and, as in this case, are prohibited for that 
purpose. It would not be logical to say that such a payment was made under relevant 
arrangements between the creditor and supplier, when it is not a normal way of paying for 
goods or services, and disallowed by the payment provider.
Mr C has argued he was unaware of the consequences of paying for the motorcycle in 
this way, and has referenced the impact of specific learning difficulties he has to support this.
One of the points made by the Court of Appeal is relevant to Mr Cs argument. The 
Court noted that consumers are often unaware of the mechanisms underlying the payments 
they make and that, broadly speaking, it wouldnt be fair for them to be penalised for that. I 
do not think I can apply that reasoning to this case in a way which assists Mr C however. As 
Ive said already, I think Ps payment screen (of which Ive seen an example) made a 
clear distinction between payments to Friends and Family and for Goods and Services. I 
think Mr C would have been aware that he was selecting a payment method which was 
not intended for purchases.
It follows that I consider Mr Cs payment to the motorcycle seller was not made under a 
DCS agreement which would allow him to hold Virgin liable for breaches of contract 
or misrepresentations by the seller, under section 75 of the CCA. Therefore, Virgin did not 
act unfairly or unreasonably in declining to honour a claim from Mr C.
Having reached this conclusion, I was also bound to conclude that Virgin could not be found 
responsible for having caused Mr Cs financial difficulties. I did think, however, that there 
were aspects of Virgins customer service which could have been better. It had made some 
unnecessary requests of Mr C, such as asking him to contact the seller to arrange the return of the motorcycle (in order to meet one of the criteria for a chargeback to be attempted). This 
had been unnecessary because a chargeback could not have succeeded in any event. I also 
thought Virgin could have explained better to Mr C why it was not taking forward a section 75 
claim. I thought Virgin should pay Mr C the £100 compensation it had already offered.
I asked both parties to the case to comment on my provisional findings. Virgin said it had 
nothing to add. Mr C made a number of points which I could summarise as follows:
Virgin hadnt been of any assistance at all when he had approached it for help as a 
last resort.
Virgin had been unsympathetic to his financial difficulties and had been unwilling to 
help with repayment plans or restructuring of his debt. Virgin had been completely 
indifferent to his problems. This is what had led him into insolvency.
The seller had in fact been a trader, and he sold motorcycles for a living using Es 
classified ads section. And while the purchase had been made off of Es platform, 
this was normal for classified listings where the buyer is expected to contact the 
seller and conclude the purchase off the platform.
He did not see how Ps User Agreement had anything to do with Virgins potential 
liability to him under section 75 of the CCA. He accepted that Ps own protection for 
buyers doesnt apply to payments made via the Friends and Family option, but 
argued that did not extend to not having protection under section 75. It was in most 
respects exactly the same as paying the seller via the Goods and Services option. 
He had never gathered more evidence because the seller stopped responding to him 
and Virgin had only asked for specific things, which he had provided. Hed stopped 
collecting evidence once Virgin had made it clear they wouldnt be helping.
The case has now been returned to me to consider again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr C has developed his points relating to his 
financial difficulties in more detail. He has referred to not being offered a repayment plan, for 
example. 
Mr C had previously referred to being met with a lack of sympathy when he told Virgin he 
could go bankrupt, and Virgin failing to offer any solutions, but as he has now gone into 
more detail about this Ive looked into this point further.
I asked Virgin to provide a recording of the call Mr C was referring to, which I have now 
listened to. In the call Mr C refers to potentially having to go bankrupt if his claim is not 
honoured. He says this is because he cant afford to absorb the loss. The member of staff he 
is speaking to says they are sorry to hear that, but that he doesnt have a right to a refund 
and they suggest that Mr C contacts Citizens Advice to see if theres any other way of 
claiming the money back from the motorcycle seller. Mr C disagrees with this and suggests 
that Virgin try to claim the money back from the motorcycle seller in order to force him to get 
in contact. Virgins member of staff says they cant do this, after which Mr C says hes going 
to talk to a debt charity and disconnects the phone call.I dont think Mr C made it clear on this phone call that he was looking for assistance with 
difficulties making his credit card payments. He didnt ask for a repayment plan or 
restructuring of his debt. He was very focused on the matter of getting a refund for the 
motorcycle and his suggestions for how Virgin could help him were centred on that point. 
Mr C was within his credit limit and not, to my knowledge, behind on his repayments. He 
ended the phone call when Virgin continued to refuse to do anything about the dispute over 
the motorcycle, and there was no further discussion of his finances. Overall, Im not 
convinced that Virgin behaved unfairly or unreasonably with respect to Mr Cs financial 
difficulties.  
Even if I did think that Virgin ought to have offered some sort of forbearance in relation to the 
debt on the account, I note Mr C did go to a debt advice charity shortly after his conversation 
with Virgin and was made insolvent under a DRO. To be eligible for a DRO a persons 
financial situation needs to be very poor, so I think Id find it difficult to conclude that Virgins 
failure to offer forbearance caused Mr Cs insolvency.
Moving on to the other parts of Mr Cs complaint, I accept Mr Cs point that the motorcycle 
seller was a trader rather than a private seller. However, he would still need to show that the 
vehicle was not satisfactory quality as required by the Consumer Rights Act 2015. I dont 
think Mr C has evidenced that the motorcycle had faults or was not satisfactory quality, and 
while I appreciate why he didnt gather further evidence at the time, it wouldnt be reasonable 
to expect Virgin to honour a section 75 claim from him without this evidence.
Turning to the question of the DCS agreement and the significance of the Friends and 
Family payment method to this, theres not a lot I can add to what I said in my provisional 
decision as summarised and quoted above. 
I appreciate the arguments are technical ones, and I understand Mr Cs point that Ps own 
protection wont apply, but for there to be a DCS agreement (and therefore for section 75 to 
apply to a purchase) there need to be arrangements between the credit card company and 
the supplier of the motorcycle. I accept that arrangements do not have to be direct and they 
can exist via intermediaries like P. But I do not think it makes sense to say that there can be 
arrangements in place where the method of payment is one which is not intended and is 
indeed specifically prohibited, for the purchase of goods. This was clearly the case with the 
payment Mr C made via Ps Friends and Family method.
Because there are not arrangements of the required kind between Virgin and the motorcycle 
supplier, the payment to the supplier and purchase of the motorcycle was not made under a 
DCS agreement and section 75 protection does not apply to the purchase. Its unfortunate 
for Mr C but it follows that my conclusion is that Virgin was right not to honour a section 75 
claim from him.
Mr C hasnt made any specific submissions following my provisional decision, on the 
question of whether Virgin should have attempted a chargeback. On this point Ill say no 
more than that I remain of the view that Mr Cs purchase wasnt eligible for a chargeback, for 
the same reasons I outlined in the quoted extract from my provisional decision.
This leaves the question of Virgins customer service. I said in my provisional decision that I 
was minded Virgin should pay the £100 compensation it had already offered. Ive not seen 
any reason to change that and so my final decision will be that this is what Virgin must pay 
Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, including those outlined in the summary and extracts from my provisional decision, Clydesdale Bank plc trading as Virgin Money must now pay Mr C 
the £100 compensation it has already offered in respect of its minor customer service 
failings. I do not uphold the remainder of Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman