DRN-3381362
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the amount offered by Astrenska Insurance Limited in settlement of a 
claim on his home appliance insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J made a claim on his home appliance cover for a damaged fridge. His insurer made a 
number of attempts to repair the appliance and then said it was beyond economic repair. 
Mr J feels he was misled when he took out the policy in 2016 as he thought the level of 
cover was £500, not the £114 hes been offered due to depreciation. So Mr J wants a 
settlement of the full amount.
Astrenska said the policy provided appliance cover for repair and replacement. Itd been 
unable to repair Mr Js fridge and couldnt source a like-for-like replacement as it was 11 
years old. Mr J didnt want to pay a contribution towards a newer model so Astrenska had 
offered a cash settlement. Its normal policy was to calculate the market value of the 
appliance by applying a depreciation each year. And itd paid Mr J £114.48 in line with its 
guidelines. 
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Astrenskas response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator explained that our service expected the 
insurer to assess the claim using the policy terms in force in 2021 when Mr J made the 
claim.
The terms explained Astrenska would offer a settlement based on market value if a 
replacement of similar age and specification couldnt be sourced. Our investigator wouldnt 
expect an insurer to put the policyholder in a better position than theyd been in at the start of 
the claim. So it was reasonable for Astrenska to expect a contribution if an upgrade was 
offered. Our investigator felt Astrenska had taken appropriate steps to try and sort things out. 
And Mr J had been offered more than the basic market value as a settlement.
Our investigator listened to the original call when Mr J took out the policy and checked it 
matched the script of key terms that shouldve been explained at the time. She felt the term 
market value was an established standard and she wouldnt expect the policy to outline the 
exact basis for calculation. 
Although the 2016 documentation didnt refer to a contribution being required if an upgraded 
replacement was offered she felt the new terms under which the claim had been considered 
gave Mr J an additional option based on market value. It didnt affect his rights under the 
original policy. 
Our investigator felt Mr J had the benefit of repairs and engineer callouts. And there wasnt a 
reasonable expectation for a better replacement under the policy. She so didnt think 
Astrenska had done anything wrong in how itd handled Mr Js claim or the sale of the policy. 
She didnt think Mr J had been misled. And she wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mr J didnt agree with our investigator. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
The additional terms and conditions werent in the 2016 policy and he hadnt received any 
new documentation. 
If hed been told when he took out the policy that he wouldnt get a new model if his fridge 
wasnt repairable then he wouldve questioned the value of the cover as it was already six 
years old. And the insurer said it offered replacements in a flash but itd taken two months 
to deal with his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has provided a lot of information and I appreciate the detail he has gone into. I wont 
comment on every point, but Ive looked carefully at everything Mr J and Astrenska have 
said. And Ill concentrate on the issues that are most relevant to my decision. 
Mr J feels he was mis-sold the policy as he expected a new model if his appliance became 
unrepairable. He felt hed purchased a repair or replace policy. So Ive reviewed the 
information provided to Mr J to see if Astrenska took reasonable steps to clearly explain the 
terms and conditions when he took out the policy. 
Mr J says the policy made no reference to the age of the appliance or any contribution from 
the policyholder. And he didnt know anything about Astrenska updating the terms and 
conditions of his policy. So Ive looked at the point of sale conversation and the information 
provided to Mr J. 
The conversation included an explanation of the key terms that Astrenska needed to make 
Mr J aware of. And the original documentation sent to Mr J shows it provides cover for 
repairs up to £500 with unlimited claims. If the appliance couldnt be repaired the insurer 
would replace the appliance with new or reconditioned equipment of the same or similar 
make or specification or offer a settlement in line with the current market value of equipment. 
But Ive not seen anything to show Mr J was told hed be provided with a replacement at no 
additional cost if his appliance became unrepairable. The policy offered cover on a like-for-
like basis. And it wouldnt be unreasonable for the insurer to consider the current market 
value of an insured appliance if it became unrepairable. Providing Mr J with a newer model 
wouldve involved betterment. And I dont think it was unfair for Astrenska to ask Mr J for a 
contribution towards a new model if that was his choice.
I can see our investigator explained our services approach to policy mis-selling so I wont 
repeat all of that here. But I wouldnt expect the documentation to go into great detail about 
every aspect of policy cover. I think the key terms of the policy were clearly explained to Mr J 
and the policy information included sufficient information to consider whether the policy was 
suitable and met his expectations. 
The section relating to claims where the appliance is beyond economic repair refers to 
settlement in line with the current market value of the equipment, subject to policy limits. 
As market value is a generally understood term I dont think it was necessary for Astrenska 
to go into further details about how it calculated market value. The clause was designed to 
alert the policyholder to the expectation that current market value would be taken into 
account if the appliance wasnt repairable.
Although Mr J took out the policy in 2016 the claim was made a few years later. So it wouldve been considered in line with the terms and conditions in place at the time. The 
2021 terms are slightly different from the documentation he received in 2016. And Mr J says 
he wasnt aware that changes had been made to market value and age of the appliance and 
that a contribution would be expected towards a new replacement. 
Astrenska has confirmed it only sends new terms and conditions to policyholders when 
theres been a change in the cover. The alterations had been to clarify what the insurer 
meant by market value as some consumers were unclear. So itd added a few extra words 
about the age of the appliance and consumer contribution. 
Ive looked carefully at the wording of the 2016 and 2021 documentation. The wording has 
been expanded slightly to offer cash as well as vouchers in the event the equipment couldnt 
be repaired. And the reference to current market value now says it is based on the age of 
the equipment whereas the original terms only referred to the current market value without 
explanation of how it might be determined. 
A new sentence has been added to explain that if at our discretion, we are unable to find a 
replacement based on market value, similar make or specification. you will be advised of 
replacement options available, which may require a contribution from you. 
But I dont think the changes alter the level of cover provided by Mr Js insurance policy. The 
new wording clarifies how the terms are applied. Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr J has 
been disadvantaged or treated any differently because of the improved wording of his policy. 
And I wouldnt necessarily expect Astrenska to send updated documentation to existing 
policyholders unless the terms had altered how a claim would be considered. 
Although the policy provided repair or replacement cover that didnt mean Mr J would 
receive a brand-new appliance when his became unrepairable. And I dont think the changes 
to the terms and conditions meant that Mr Js cover had altered or that his rights had been 
affected in any way. The original terms already made it clear that any replacement would be 
in line with the current market value. And the new wording made it clearer that the market 
value was based on the age of the machine.
I do appreciate how disappointed Mr J feels about the way his claim has been handled. He 
wasnt aware the value of his cover was reducing due to depreciation and aging even though 
the cost of his premiums was increasing. But as the appliance became older its likely the 
cost of future repairs wouldve increased. And thats something Astrenska wouldve taken 
into account when considering the level of premium at each renewal.
When Mr J reported the problem Astrenskas engineers made a number of visits to try and 
fix the appliance. Although it was able to order replacement parts it still wasnt able to 
resolve the issue. Astrenska looked for a replacement model. And it then offered a 
settlement figure that was higher than the basic market value. And I think thats reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Ive carefully considered everything Mr J has said. And I know he will be disappointed with 
this outcome. But I cant say Astrenska misled Mr J when he took out the policy or when it 
updated the terms and conditions after he had purchased and renewed the policy. 
And Ive not seen anything to suggest Astrenska treated Mr J unfairly or acted outside of the 
terms and conditions of the insurance policy when it considered his claim. So I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman