DRN-3600949
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been unhelpful and 
unsympathetic, and has failed to offer them a payment arrangement, in relation to financial 
difficulties affecting their mortgage account. They have explained that until an insurance 
policy pays out, they arent able to pay their mortgage.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents and 
telephone calls. Ive read everything and listened to the call recordings, and its apparent that 
some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There are 
also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by 
necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
What happened really isnt in dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to 
determine why a complaint has been made. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs S being identified.
In April 2014 Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Barclays (under its residential mortgage 
lending brand, Woolwich). They borrowed £105,000 on a capital repayment basis over a 
term of 15 years. The mortgage was on a fixed rate that expired on 30 June 2019. In 
September 2017 Mr and Mrs S took out a further advance of £45,000, also on a repayment 
basis, over a term of 20 years. This was on a fixed rate until 31 October 2019. 
Barclays has now clarified that the mortgage is currently on a fixed rate of 2.19% until 2024. 
There is an early repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage is repaid within the fixed-rate 
period.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs S took out an insurance policy through Barclays that offered cover for 
total permanent disability (TPD). In addition, Mr and Mrs S had a policy taken out in 2008 
which also offered this type of cover.
I am very sorry to note that in 2020 Mrs S became very ill and unable to work. Claims were 
put in on both policies, but the insurer on the 2008 policy declined the claim, and I 
understand the claim on the 2019 policy has yet to be finally determined by the insurer after 
it was initially declined and appealed (I have limited information about this, which I will 
address later in this provisional decision). 
(Complaints were made to our service about mis-sale of the 2019 policy by Barclays and 
about the insurers decision to decline the claim on the 2008 policy  which is unrelated to 
Barclays. Notwithstanding the sympathy felt for Mrs S, the ombudsmen who issued final 
decisions on those complaints werent able to find in Mrs Ss favour. I will make no further 
comment on the merits of those complaints but will make reference to them by way of 
background information for this complaint.)
Mrs S contacted Barclays on 27 July 2021 because her claim under the 2019 policy had 
been declined. Mrs S was told by a staff member not to worry about the August mortgage 
repayment and that he would call her back once hed spoken to the relevant department. 
However, he didnt do so.
Barclays has acknowledged that this wasnt the right thing to do; instead Mr and Mrs S 
should have been referred to a mortgage team to discuss the mortgage with them in more 
detail. Unfortunately, in trying to be helpful and reassuring at this initial stage, Barclays didnt 
signpost Mr and Mrs S to the section of the bank that they should have been speaking to. 
Barclays notes record that on 4 August 2021 Mr S spoke to Barclays, when he explained 
that Mrs S wasnt able to work and that it would be difficult to make the current monthly 
payment (CMP) on the mortgage. Barclays suggested Mr and Mrs S might want to take 
independent financial advice, and that, once the bank had full details of their income and 
expenditure (I&E), the bank could look at what options might be available.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Barclays and the bank acknowledged that Mr and Mrs S should 
have been referred to the mortgage team. The bank offered compensation of £150 for this. 
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr and Mrs S contacted the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at what had happened. He didnt think Barclays had been 
sympathetic enough to Mrs Ss situation  particularly as Mrs S had thought that her two 
insurance policies were going to cover her situation. In October 2021 he asked the bank to 
pay £250 compensation, and explore options with Mr and Mrs S about the help that could be 
provided. This would be dependent on Mr and Mrs S providing details of their income and 
expenditure. The bank paid the £250 compensation.
Mr and Mrs S accepted this. They had raised complaints with our service against the 
providers of the two insurance policies. The complaint in relation to the 2008 policy was 
decided by an ombudsman in September 2021, and was not upheld. But Mr and Mrs S were 
hopeful that their complaint in relation to mis-sale of the 2019 policy arranged by Barclays 
would be upheld. The policy would have paid out £78,000 on a successful claim. 
On 31 October 2021 Mrs S contacted the investigator on that complaint. She wasnt happy 
with the way the bank had dealt with the details of their Income and expenditure analysis 
(I&E). She asked the investigator to consider telling Barclays that the bank had to pay a 
sum now because this has gone on too long and we need a rapid change not the back and 
forth with Barclays and getting nowhere. We believe that they should really be responsible 
for £78,000 (but we will agree a decent amount)
However, in February 2022, in a final decision, an ombudsman didnt uphold the complaint 
that Barclays had mis-sold the policy. I understand that a claim has been made to the 
insurers on the 2019 policy but as at 12 May 2022 (the last information we have from 
Mrs Ss solicitor) no decision had been made on the claim by the insurer.
On looking at the matter again, the investigator didnt think Barclays had done enough to 
help Mr and Mrs S. Barclays had compiled Mr and Mrs Ss I&E, which showed their expenditure greatly exceeded their mortgage. As a result, Barclays wasnt able to put a 
payment arrangement in place. But the investigator didnt think the call with the bank when 
their finances were discussed was clear, and they had to repeat much of the information. 
Given this, the investigator didnt think an accurate note had been taken of the I&E.
The investigator thought that, even if an accurate record of I&E showed that there was a 
deficit, this shouldnt prevent Barclays from putting a payment arrangement in place. He 
pointed out to the bank that Mrs S is a vulnerable customer and explained all the ways 
mortgage regulations say that lenders should help people in Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances.
The investigator asked Barclays to put an affordable payment plan in place, reimburse all the 
money Mr and Mrs S had to borrow from relatives for their living expenses and pay them 
£1,000 compensation.
Barclays didnt accept the investigators findings. The bank made some further comments in 
response, which I summarise below:
Mr and Mrs S had a negative monthly disposable income (MDI). As a result, no payment 
plan could be considered affordable.
The I&E details given to Barclays dont appear to be unreasonable given Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances and Barclays considers these to be a fair reflection of their situation at the 
time. If this is inaccurate, Mr and Mrs S are welcome to send in another with any 
corrections they might want to make.
Its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have been advised by a debt charity to go bankrupt if 
they had a positive MDI.
Where customers have a negative MDI, they are advised to seek independent financial 
advice, and Barclays had already advised Mr and Mrs S to do this.
Concessions are intended to be a temporary solution, but are unsuitable for long-term 
financial difficulties.
It would be a breach of regulation to request a payment from customers who are actually 
unable to pay anything.
Barclays isnt able to give advice to mortgage customers on how to deal with other bills 
or creditors  which is why the bank suggested Mr and Mrs S should have independent 
advice.
In relation to the insurance claim on the 2019 policy, Barclays would like authority to talk 
directly to the insurer about the claim. If there is a realistic possibility that a lump sum of 
£78,000 is likely to be paid in the foreseeable future, this will affect the assistance 
Barclays would be able to give. But even if the mortgage was reduced by this amount, it 
would still leave a balance that Mr and Mrs S would have no income to service.
It was Mr and Mrs Ss choice to borrow money from family and so its unfair to ask 
Barclays to reimburse them for this.
Barclays has followed its correct procedure and hasnt made an error. It made 
Mr and Mrs S aware of their options from the start and correctly referred them to a 
financial adviser. As a result, its unfair to ask the bank to pay compensation of £1,000.
Provisional decision of 16 June 2022
I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following findings.Ive looked at what Barclays has done, and what it is required to do, to help 
borrowers in financial difficulty. The starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat 
all customers, but particularly those facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against 
that, one of the fundamental principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a 
lender has the right to receive payment of the money owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as 
MCOB) sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in 
arrears. The Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML) also has its own guidelines about 
what it expects lenders to do to comply with MCOB, which mirror closely the 
requirements of MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the 
problem that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and 
capable of being resolved.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such 
transferring a mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring 
interest for a period of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the 
lenders obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
Barclays has said, on the basis of the information given by Mr and Mrs S about their 
I&E, there was a negative MDI, as a result of which no payment arrangement can be 
put in place. Ive looked at the figures compiled by Barclays during the telephone call 
with Mr S in December 2021 - and Ive also listened to the call. This was a long call, 
from which it is apparent at various points that the parties are at cross-purposes or 
having difficulty understanding each other. But Ive looked at all the information 
gathered and it doesnt seem to me to be inaccurate, compared with the call.
The I&E showed a negative MDI of over £1,000, and so I dont think it was open to 
Barclays to think about a payment arrangement. Even taking out the monthly 
mortgage payment of just over £900, there was still a negative MDI.
Switching Mr and Mrs S to a lower interest rate would usually come with an early 
repayment charge if the mortgage is repaid during the period when the lower interest 
rate applies. Given that the mortgage was unaffordable on the figures Barclays had, 
it wouldnt have been appropriate to offer a product with a lower interest rate if that 
mortgage was also unaffordable.
A term extension on the mortgage might reduce the payments, but not within the 
range of affordability, based on Mr and Mrs Ss I&E.
Likewise, a temporary switch to interest-only would only help if there is a light at the 
end of the tunnel, such as a new job offer or something of that nature. I know that 
Mrs S is unable to work and it appears this may be permanent, according to the 
information Ive read from her GP. (For the sake of privacy, I will not disclose the 
details here.)
However, there may be the light at the end of the tunnel if the claim under the 2019 
policy is accepted and paid in full - £78,000. Neither our service nor Barclays has 
been given much information about the progress of the claim. The last information we 
have  on the file relating to the complaint against Barclays that the policy was 
mis-sold  is a note of a telephone conversation with Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor on 
12 May 2022. She says that she thinks the insurer is deliberately delaying the claim 
and so there may be a new complaint raised against the insurer about that. However, it seems to have been agreed that Mr and Mrs S would await the outcome 
of the claim before raising any complaint, because if the claim was denied, then they 
could complain about that, as well as about the delay in handling it.
I think the issue of the potential insurance pay-out is critical to the outcome of this 
mortgage complaint; if Mr and Mrs M will definitely be receiving a large lump sum, 
they could pay off credit cards and other unsecured debts, reduce their mortgage 
balance and have more disposable income to go towards paying the remaining 
balance of their mortgage, being essentially debt-free apart from the mortgage. If the 
insurers reject the claim, then this will have long-term implications for Mr and Mrs S 
in relation to the mortgage.
Because of the potential impact of the claim, before I issue any final decision, I need 
to know what the position is on this. I require Mr and Mrs S to complete and sign a 
form of authority (which will be sent along with this provisional decision), authorising 
the insurer to release full details of the claim to both the Financial Ombudsman 
Service and Barclays. I also require them to provide a copy of the policy schedule 
showing the level of cover and the policy number.
I would also like Barclays to clarify whether it offers products specifically for 
vulnerable customers, or products without fees or early repayment charges, with 
details of any such products and the lending criteria for them (which criteria I will 
accept in confidence, given that it is commercially sensitive.)
I can see that Mr and Mrs S have made their mortgage a priority, and that they have 
borrowed money from relatives for their living expenses, including the mortgage. As a 
result, the mortgage isnt in arrears. But I dont think its fair that Barclays should 
reimburse any of this. Barclays role as mortgage lender is to administer the 
mortgage account in line with regulations. But this does not extend to managing 
Mr and Mrs Ss finances for them. I totally understand why Mr and Mrs S borrowed 
from their family, but it was their decision to do this and its not fair or reasonable for 
me to order Barclays to pay this back  which in effect would mean Barclays had 
paid the mortgage for them.
Im also not persuaded that an award of compensation of £1,000 is appropriate. In its 
final response letter Barclays had previously offered £150 for giving Mrs S incorrect 
information during the call on 27 July 2021. I also think the call in December 2021 
when the I&E was compiled was unnecessarily protracted and was obviously 
stressful for Mr S. In the circumstances, I think Barclays should pay a further £150 
compensation for this, taking the total compensation (including the £150 offered in 
the final response letter) to £300.
But in relation to the help Barclays is able to offer, up to this point I dont think the 
bank has done anything wrong, given the position in relation to Mr and Mrs Ss 
financial circumstances and the banks regulatory obligations concerning the 
affordability of any arrangements. 
What Barclays is able to do to help may change, depending on the insurance claim, 
but I am not going to make a final decision until the insurers have confirmed the 
position on the claim, including any timescales if a decision has not yet been made.
Responses to the provisional decision
Barclays clarified that the mortgage is on a five-year fixed-rate product at 2.19% with an 
ERC if it is repaid before 2024. The bank says that there are no lower interest rates that 
would make the mortgage affordable, based on the I&E the bank holds. Therefore, even if a lower rate was available, it wouldnt be possible for Barclays to switch the mortgage, 
particularly as an ERC would be incurred in closing off the previous mortgage. 
Barclays said that there is a negative MDI and so there isnt anything Barclays can do other 
than to direct Mr and Mrs S to getting independent financial advice. 
The bank also noted that Mr and Mrs B recently made a part-redemption - £41,039 on 
13 June 2022. This has reduced the balance on the account.
Barclays also noted that I had increased compensation from £150 to £300, but the bank has 
confirmed that, after the investigators first opinion on the case when he recommended 
compensation of £250, the bank paid this. Therefore increasing compensation to £300 would 
mean the bank should pay a further £50.
Mr and Mrs S have made copious responses to my provisional decision. Much of what they 
say relates to their dissatisfaction with the way the complaint has been dealt with, which isnt 
something I will be looking at. They have also made detailed comments about what they 
perceive to be regulatory breaches by Barclays. The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a 
regulator, and historic regulatory issues reported in the press arent within the scope of my 
remit in relation to an individual complaint against Barclays.
Mr and Mrs S have also quoted issues relating to Consumer Credit, specifically concerning 
small business and retail customers, that had been reported in the press. Mr and Mrs S say 
they are going to contact the Financial Conduct Authority to see if they can get support from 
the team or advisor that fined the bank in relation to those issues.
However, none of this relates to a regulated residential mortgage (which falls under a 
different set of regulations, MCOB, from consumer credit contracts). Therefore, whilst I 
appreciate the research Mr and Mrs S have done, this information is not relevant to their 
complaint.
With regard to issues that are relevant to this complaint, Mr and Mrs S say that theyve 
provided Barclays with multiple I&Es, and so I should not have based my decision on a 
single I&E which Barclays claim showed the mortgage wasnt affordable. Mr and Mrs S also 
say Barclays recorded information incorrectly on their I&Es, and even after Mr and Mrs S 
cancelled direct debits, Barclays still wouldnt offer them any help.
Finally, Mr and Mrs S have made it very clear that they do not want the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to explore ways in which Barclays might be able to help them going 
forward. All they are concerned with is what they say is the lack of help and forbearance 
offered by Barclays up to the point where they brought their complaint to us. Their position is 
that they were unable to pay their mortgage, they were awaiting payment of the claim on 
their insurance policy and expected Barclays to offer them some assistance while they were 
in financial difficulty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again from the outset, revisited my provisional decision and considered 
the further points made by the parties. 
Because Mr and Mrs S do not want us to look at any ways that Barclays might be able to 
help them in future, I do not need any information from Mr and Mrs S about their insurance claim or from Barclays about what the bank might be able to do to assist in the future. I will 
consider only the issues relating to the customer service issues Mr and Mrs S were unhappy 
about when they brought their complaint to us.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the reasons set out in that provisional decision and repeated above.
Although I accept Mr and Mrs S provided Barclays with several other I&Es, their position 
throughout is that they want help from Barclays because they arent able to pay the 
mortgage  although they have done so with the help of family. But Barclays cant take 
money borrowed from family into account as income when assessing affordability. 
Mr and Mrs S havent been able to show that they had sufficient income to be able to afford 
the monthly mortgage payment. A concession is only available under MCOB 13 for 
customers in arrears, and where putting in place a temporary forbearance measure would be 
affordable. That wasnt the case with this mortgage account, as it wasnt in arrears (due to 
Mr and Mrs S borrowing to pay the mortgage) and because no concession would have met 
affordability due to a negative MDI.
I fully understand and appreciate that Mr and Mrs S cancelled direct debits, and that they 
say Barclays made a mistake in recording a benefit as monthly when it was fortnightly. But 
even taking this into consideration, the mortgage was still unaffordable and so Barclays 
could not put in place any type of arrangement where there was no affordability.
In the circumstances, I dont think Barclays could have offered a concession. The bank 
suggested Mr and Mrs S should take independent advice, which is all it was able to do. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Barclays has done anything wrong. There was no concession it 
could have offered, based on the negative MDI the I&Es showed.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs S were hoping for. I acknowledge they have, 
by borrowing money, made sure their mortgage hasnt gone into arrears. But theres no 
basis on which I could fairly or reasonably order Barclays to reimburse them for this. 
In my provisional decision I had thought the compensation offered by Barclays in its final 
response (£150) wasnt sufficient, and that this should be increased to £300. I still think that 
this is fair, reasonable and proportionate, for the customer service issues I have identified. I 
wasnt aware that Barclays had already paid the £250 recommended by the investigator 
following his initial review of the complaint. To clarify, I am awarding total compensation of 
£300 for distress and inconvenience, so Barclays is required to pay a further £50 on top of 
the £250 already paid.
Mr and Mrs S are clear that they do not wish to discuss with the Financial Ombudsman 
Service any issues concerning the insurance claim or any future mortgage issues. I sincerely 
hope Mr and Mrs S are able to resolve these issues. I would urge Mr and Mrs S to maintain 
an open dialogue with Barclays about their financial situation and, as the bank has 
suggested, to take independent financial advice or to speak to StepChange, Citizens Advice 
or Shelter about their options.Putting things right
To settle the complaint I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr and Mrs S total 
compensation for trouble and upset of £300, to include £250 already paid. I make no other 
order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay compensation as set out above. 
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman