DRN-2335442
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society has made a mistake when administering 
his mortgage account.
 
What happened
Mr H has a mortgage account which was taken out in 2006 with another business. In 2014 
the account transferred to Nationwides ownership.
Mr H says he understood that his mortgage was due to be redeemed in June 2020, as he 
thought it was taken out in June 2006. When this didnt happen, he contacted Nationwide to 
complain.
Nationwide said, having reviewed all of the information available to it, the mortgage was due 
to end in November 2020. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Unhappy with this, 
Mr H asked our service to look into his complaint. He acknowledged he didnt have any 
documentation, but he remained convinced the mortgage shouldve ended in June 2020.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong. He said the information from the point of sale indicated that the mortgage 
was set to run for 14 years and had been taken out in November 2006. So, he felt 
Nationwide was correct that it was due to end in November 2020.
Mr H disagreed, as he felt some of the documentation couldve been altered as he didnt 
recall completing it. As Mr H did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has said he believes the mortgage was taken out in June 2006 and so shouldve ended 
in June 2020. But he doesnt have any documents available that supports this.
Nationwide has provided a copy of Mr Hs mortgage application. This document is dated 
September 2006. It has also provided a copy of the mortgage offer, dated October 2006. 
This confirms that the term of the mortgage was 14 years. Nationwide has provided 
evidence that the charge connected to the mortgage was registered with the land registry in 
November 2006 when it believes the mortgage started. And it has provided a redemption 
statement for an earlier joint mortgage that was repaid by this mortgage. That redemption 
statement is also dated November 2006. All of this information is dated after Mr H believes 
the mortgage began. And, while Mr H has questioned its authenticity, Ive not seen anything 
that leads me to think any of these documents have been altered.
Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that Mr Hs mortgage began in November 2006 and 
was due to run for 14 years. And as a result, was always due to end in November 2020. So, 
I dont think Nationwide has made an error. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman