DRN-3223676
The complaint
Ms R complains that Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) lent irresponsibly when providing her 
with a personal loan. 
What happened
In December 2018, following some very difficult personal events, Ms R said she applied to 
RBS online for a loan of £2,000 to help fund a home move and to pay off her debts. The 
application details recorded by RBS show the purpose of the loan was to refinance existing 
debt. RBS agreed to provide the loan over 60 months.
Based on the information RBS has provided, the total charge for the credit was £1,626.40, 
which meant the total amount repayable by Ms R for the £2,000 she was borrowing was 
£3,626.40. The monthly repayments were £60.44. The information RBS recorded at the time 
of her application showed she had a net monthly income of £1,364.
In 2020 Ms R complained to RBS that it had lent to her irresponsibly when she applied for 
the loan. This was because, she said, she already had two loans running with RBS as well 
as a credit card with another lender. She said having the new loan in addition was 
unaffordable for her and meant she had to resort to arranging a short-term loan to keep up 
with her repayments and to borrowing money from family. All of which adversely affected her 
mental health. 
RBS responded to say relevant checks were completed to ensure it made a responsible 
lending decision. It said these checks, covering income and expenditure, credit scoring, RBS 
internal lending history, personal circumstances, the loan amount and term and investigation 
by a credit reference agency, demonstrated to it that the application could be approved. RBS 
added that it was for Ms R to decide whether she wanted the loan on the terms offered, or to 
cancel within the 14-day cooling-off period without penalty, and that she decided to proceed.
RBS did, however, offer to pay Ms R £200 as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with RBSs response, Ms R complained to us. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and told Ms R they didnt believe RBS had lent irresponsibly. They agreed with 
RBS that, even accounting for Ms Rs existing borrowing, the lending was still affordable for 
her given the amounts she was repaying and her remaining income. 
The investigator also considered whether RBS was, or ought to have been, aware of Ms Rs 
difficult personal circumstances to see if that might make a difference to their findings. But 
they concluded that RBS didnt know, and had no cause to know, about those circumstances 
so they werent a factor in its lending decision. 
Ms R didnt accept the investigators findings. She said she shouldnt have been repeatedly 
asked by this service about her personal circumstances leading up to the loan  which were 
understandably difficult to talk about  if they werent going to be considered. Ms R disputed 
that her outgoings at the time of the loan application were around £300 a month, as 
suggested by RBS, or that her rent was £300 when her rent alone was £450 a month.  
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Ms Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if RBS treated Ms R fairly 
and reasonably when it provided her with the loan. These include:
1) Did RBS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms R 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did RBS make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did RBS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill consider each of these in turn.
Did RBS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms R would be 
able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules that RBS had to follow required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess whether Ms R could afford to repay the credit being offered. This is often 
referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks RBS needed to carry out, but they did set out 
that those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think 
what this meant in practice was that the scope and extent of RBSs checks needed to reflect 
the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the interest 
rate, the duration of the loan, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any indications 
of customer vulnerability.  
The checks RBS needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the loan back would cause Ms R any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for her. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the term of the loan and the monthly repayment, total charge for the loan and the 
interest rate being charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And, as a result of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be 
more thorough if Ms R had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for 
her to meet the loan repayments on such an income. 
RBS would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts she had to repay, as it 
would be more difficult to make higher repayments depending on her income. With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether RBS completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms R would be able to repay her loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the online loan application are as follows:
Ms R applied for the loan, which had an annual percentage rate (APR) of 29.9%, in 
2018.
Ms R was recorded by RBS at the time as having a net income of £1,364 a month. Her 
monthly rent/mortgage costs were recorded as £313 and her other monthly living costs 
as £432, leaving her with net free funds of £619 a month.  
The application records suggest Ms R had no other borrowing at the time.
Prior to offering the loan, I see that RBS instructed a credit agency to carry out searches in 
relation to Ms Rs credit history in 2018. Ive reviewed the agencys report and it revealed no 
major causes for concern regarding her finances. For example, although she had a balance 
showing on her credit cards, mail order and store cards, this amounted to just over half of 
her total credit limit on these accounts. So, it seems she wasnt overly indebted in this 
regard.
Ms Rs told us she missed payments on her credit card in November and December 2018. 
But, from experience, credit files tend not to update immediately. Im satisfied that the 
agencys check was sufficiently current at the time, and that RBS wasnt at fault for any 
delay there may have been in the information relating to those missed payments pulling 
through to her credit file. 
Although the agencys debt summary indicated shed taken out loans, there was no sign of 
Ms R having had any issues with her repayments. The agencys report shows the monthly 
repayments totalled £203. When bearing in mind Ms Rs net monthly income of £1,364 and 
her combined declared rental and other living costs of £745, I think this demonstrated that 
she was potentially able to take on the extra borrowing shed applied for. The monthly 
repayments would only use 10% of her surplus income, so Im satisfied that she could 
sustainably afford to make these repayments in addition to her existing financial 
commitments.  
Ms R didnt disclose her existing RBS loans or her credit card in making her loan application. 
But the relevant lending rules make clear that information provided by customers when 
applying for credit might not always be accurate. And the loans were with RBS itself and 
showed up on the credit agencys report. Given that the purpose of the loan was recorded as 
RF  meaning refinancing  it would have been reasonable to conclude that it was likely 
Ms R had some existing borrowing. I believe RBS ought to have picked up on the 
discrepancy and carried out further checks and asked further questions of Ms R regarding 
her existing commitments. 
Arguably, the checks RBS carried out suggested Ms R could afford the loan. But, 
importantly, the information shed provided may not have accurately reflected the true 
position of her finances. I think, for that reason, RBS should have carried out further checks 
to make sure she could sustainably afford to repay the loan. 
Im aware that, unfortunately, Ms R had been going through some very difficult personal 
events before applying for the loan. But Ive seen nothing to indicate that RBS was aware of 
this or that it should have been aware of it at the time. When we asked Ms R whether shed 
made RBS aware of the situation or that she was financially vulnerable as a result, she confirmed she hadnt done so at any point. So, I dont think RBS had any reason to treat her 
differently or more sympathetically than it did. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Although I dont think RBS carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in this case, I 
need to also think about what reasonable and proportionate checks might have shown. And 
whether they would have made a difference to RBSs decision to provide the loan to Ms R. 
I think RBS should have ensured that the scope and extent of its checks were adapted to the 
circumstances of its offer to Ms R. A loan of £2,000 represented an extra financial burden in 
addition to her existing borrowing. Given this and the information RBS had about Ms R 
further checks would, in my opinion, have needed to establish the extent of her existing 
credit commitments. 
Its difficult to say what RBS would have found out about the reason for the loan, had it 
carried out further checks. The obvious thing for it to do would have been to ask Ms R to 
clarify. But as shes indicated to us, she was reluctant to talk to RBS about her personal 
difficulties and so its possible shed have maintained that the loan was for refinancing. In 
any case, RBS has provided evidence showing on balance that all but around £70 of the 
£2,000 she borrowed was in fact used to refinance her existing debts. So, I believe the 
purpose of the loan was accurately recorded at the time of the application.
One of the difficulties, given the length of time since the loan was offered, is understanding 
what reasonable and proportionate checks might have shown about Ms Rs financial 
situation had RBS carried them out. However, we have a copy of her current account 
transactions from the time and some credit report information. Having these, together with 
the other available information, certainly helps provide a picture of her financial situation at 
the time. 
Ive thought carefully about what Ms Rs said about being in financial difficulty in 
December 2018. But, despite the personal problems she suffered, I dont think the evidence 
Ive seen would have indicated that to RBS. For example, Ms Rs current account 
transactions leading up to that point indicate her account had been in relatively good order 
for some time. Up to December 2018, she was in regular receipt of payments in line with the 
net monthly income shed previously declared to RBS. 
Ms Rs current account was in credit throughout the 12 months leading up to the application 
and theres little sign that she was struggling to keep pace with her outgoings. Those 
outgoings included a monthly payment of £127.89 for one of her RBS loans and, from May 
2018, a monthly payment of £52.41 for the second of her RBS loans. These payments were 
regularly made in the 12-month period and Ive no reason to believe the repayments for the 
first loan hadnt been made regularly prior to that. Given how Ms R had been handling her 
existing financial commitments up to that point, there was no reason to think she couldnt 
sustainably afford the additional loan repayments she was intending to take on. 
Ms R disputes the application details held by RBS regarding her rental costs. The details 
suggest those costs were in the region of £300 a month. Ms R says her rent at the time was 
in fact £450 a month. Shes provided a copy of a signed tenancy agreement that shows she 
was due to pay £475 a month. But I note that the agreement was dated January 2019. I 
realise that was just a month after her loan application, but I dont find it to be more 
persuasive evidence of her rental costs in December 2018 than the loan application she 
completed online.  Ms R also says her outgoings were more than £300 a month and always had been. Ive 
checked the investigators assessment and they said her mortgage/rental commitment was 
£300. They didnt suggest her total outgoings were £300 and nor has RBS as far as I can 
tell. Rather the application details RBS recorded show her living costs (not including 
mortgage/rent) to be £432 a month. Ive no reason to doubt the accuracy of this information 
as recorded in December 2018.  
Did RBS make a fair lending decision?  
From the information obtained and provided by RBS, and sent to us by Ms R, theres little to 
suggest she was struggling financially when it agreed to offer the loan in 2018. Ms R had 
existing financial commitments prior to taking on the additional loan but it appeared she was 
managing them relatively well and had sufficient income to cover the cost of the repayments. 
I cant see anything in the information RBS ought to have obtained that would have given it 
reason to believe the new loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for Ms R.  
I recognise how strongly Ms R feels that RBS treated her unfairly in 2018. And Im sorry that 
it was necessary for us to ask her to elaborate on her personal circumstances at the time. I 
realise that must have been very difficult for her and I appreciate her co-operation. But, from 
what Ive seen, I cant fairly say that it was irresponsible of RBS to offer her the loan.
Did RBS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms R in some other way? 
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that RBS acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms R in some other way.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I dont believe Royal Bank 
of Scotland Plc need pay Ms R any more than the £200 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman