DRN-3221219
The complaint
Mr R complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of his claim for replacement carpets 
following a house fire, under his landlord insurance policy. 
AXA instructed a contractor to handle the claim, but as it is ultimately responsible for this, I 
will refer to AXA.
What happened
In May 2020 there was a fire at the property Mr R lets out to a tenant. AXA accepted Mr Rs 
claim for damage caused by the fire. Part of the claim involved replacement carpets that 
were irreparably damaged. 
Mr R says AXA made an appointment to visit his property to inspect the carpets. He says the 
appointment was made very late due to the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. He says 
AXA didnt get to see the carpets as all fire damaged contents had been removed from the 
house. Mr R says that because of this AXA just gave him a rough quotation. 
Mr R had retained sample sections of the damaged carpets. AXA asked him to send the 
samples for it to inspect, which he did by post. He says there was a delay because AXA 
couldnt locate the samples. Mr R says after a final meeting with AXA in January 2021, the 
property was ready for carpets to be fitted in preparation for new tenants to move in. 
Mr R approached a local carpet fitter but was told there would be a delay in supplying the 
carpets due to the pandemic. He contacted another contractor located further away, who 
was able to install carpets much sooner at a cost of £2,800. Mr R isnt happy that AXA will 
only pay £2,376.37 for the carpets. 
AXA says its policy terms require it to provide a payment to cover the cost of the same 
specification of carpet that was damaged. It says it arranged for its carpet specialist to match 
the carpet based on the samples Mr R provided. The carpet was costed based on it being 
100% poly prop twist. 
AXA says it offered to replace the carpets using its preferred suppliers. As an alternative it 
offered a cash settlement based on the quotation its supplier had provided. AXA says it 
offered to arrange for replacement carpets to be fitted using its supplier on three separate 
occasions.   
Mr R didnt think it was fair that AXA wouldnt pay what the carpets had cost to replace so he 
referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He thought 
it was reasonable that AXA had offered to replace the carpets. And that it had costed the 
replacements based on a match with the carpet samples Mr R provided.
Mr R didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I realise this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Theres no dispute that the damaged carpets are covered by Mr Rs policy. So, I neednt 
consider this point any further. The issue here is whether AXA behaved reasonably in 
offering a settlement payment for £2,376.37 when Mr R says it cost him £2,800 to have new 
carpets fitted. 
The policy terms say:
What is covered
If any property is damaged by any of the following causes, we will pay you for the value of 
the property at the time it is damaged or the amount of the damage, or at our option reinstate 
or replace the property or any part of it..
Causes
1. Fire, lightening or earthquake excluding the excess detailed in your schedule. 
The terms say AXA can decide to replace property damaged by fire. So, I think it acted 
reasonably in offering to replace the damaged carpets.
AXA says Mr R didnt accept its offer to fit the carpets using its supplier. I have seen the 
emails it sent that show this was offered through its preferred supplier. Because, he didnt 
accept this it provided a settlement payment based on what it would cost its supplier to carry 
out the work. Had AXA not given the option to replace the carpets, leaving this for Mr R to 
arrange, I think its fair that the settlement payment reflect the full cost Mr R paid. Insurers 
are often able to obtain discounts with their preferred suppliers, so the price they pay will be 
lower than an average customer will pay. But Mr R was given this option, so I think AXA 
behaved reasonably. 
I have thought about Mr Rs comments that the type of carpet AXA costed against, is of a 
lower specification than the carpets that were damaged. He says this is why there is a 
difference in cost. He refers to a specific carpet called, Monaco Supreme. Mr R says the 
replacement should be like for like and this means AXA should pay him what he paid his 
carpet fitter. 
Mr R hasnt supplied information to show the type of carpet he had in the property before the 
fire damage occurred. I understand that due to the property being cleared of all fire damaged 
contents the carpets couldnt be inspected in situ. This is why he sent samples of the carpet 
he had salvaged to AXA. In the circumstances I think this was a reasonable approach to 
allow AXA to validate the type of carpet. AXA arranged an inspection of the carpet samples. 
I have seen a copy of the report produced, which says the carpet was 100% poly prop 
twist. The costing was then based on this. 
I acknowledge Mr Rs view. And I understand his disappointment that the carpets he paid for 
cost more than the settlement payment AXA offered. But based on this evidence I think its 
settlement offer was fair. 
  In considering all of this, I think AXA behaved fairly when handling Mr Rs claim. So, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman