DRN-2939148
The complaint
G, a business partnership, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted its account without 
notice, didnt remove this for over a year and continued to apply charges.
What happened
HSBC says it wrote to G in March 2019 as it needed to complete a safeguard review. This 
was to confirm that the information it had about G was correct and as a means of preventing 
fraud and financial crime. It says it also identified in May 2019 that the account of G was 
inactive, and this triggered a dormancy review. It wrote to G and said that if it didnt contact it 
about this by 28 July 2019 then the account would be restricted. HSBC says G didnt do so 
and the account was restricted, and the safeguard review suspended. 
In March 2020 a further safeguard review was triggered, and letters sent to G. One of the 
partners visited a branch and a discussion was scheduled. HSBC accepts that branch staff 
told G in April 2020 that telephone security could be reset in the telephone call. But that was 
wrong, and it offered to pay G £50 for this. The discussion took place in May 2020 and the 
review was competed in August 2020. These were standard timescales taking into account 
the pandemic. The account was closed in September 2020 and the funds withdrawn by G.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that HSBC was 
expected to comply with regulatory requirements. And it had set up the safeguard review to 
help do this. This wasnt completed in 2019 because Gs account had become dormant and 
was frozen. G had been told about this in advance and also when the account had been 
restricted. G had been offered compensation for the incorrect information about resetting 
security on the account.
G didnt agree. The partner representing it said that he didnt receive any letter in May 2019 
about the dormancy review. And he completed a customer information request. He said it 
wasnt logical that he wouldnt also deal with the dormancy review. He maintained that no 
correspondence was sent about the dormancy review. He also said that it was unacceptable 
that HSBC could freeze an account based on one letter. If HSBC werent prepared to pay 
reasonable compensation for Gs account being restricted then he wanted an ombudsmans 
review. He asked that details of his calls with HSBC in 2019 be obtained and said he was 
fairly certain he called HSBC but couldnt locate the records.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC doesnt have a record of any successful calls with G in 2019. I have seen from the 
information provided that telephone banking security checks were failed in August 2019. 
That suggests that G attempted to call but couldnt get through and this wasnt reset until 
April 2020 following which the review took place. 
I have seen a copy of the letters to G dated 24 May 2019 and 29 July 2019 about the 
dormancy on the account. I understand from HSBCs case notes that the nature of Gs 
business had changed, and that income was now being paid into a different account and so 
Gs account hadnt been used. HSBC told G in the first letter that it needed to get in touch 
because the account hadnt been used for a year. And then in the second that as it didnt do 
so the account was frozen, and G would need to contact it to access funds.
There were no reported problems with other post sent to G at that time. And I think it 
reasonable for HSBC to work on the basis that correctly addressed letters would be 
received. Even if there was an issue with the postal system I dont have any evidence to 
support G making actual contact with HSBC until the following year. If it had wanted to 
access its account during that period I think it would have become reasonably apparent that 
it couldnt do so.
We dont have a role in saying what processes HSBC should put in place. Here HSBC said 
its processes were to meet regulatory requirements and make sure information about its 
customers was correct and that funds in dormant accounts were protected. Its practice is 
that account charges continue in line with any agreement. 
I appreciate that its processes could appear confusing. And thats especially as here an 
initial safeguard review in 2019 didnt continue due to the dormancy on the account. But the 
requirements for each were distinct and were set out in writing to G. So, I dont have a basis 
to find that HSBC made a mistake or ought to have done things differently in 2019.
The review recommenced in 2020. There was always going to be processing time involved 
and this was then extended by the impact of the pandemic. In light of the history of what had 
happened and the period before the review when the account was restricted without any 
further action by G I dont find on balance that this was unreasonable. I understand that G 
was in a position to access the funds in the account of it says just over £8,400 in August 
2020.
I note that HSBC offered to pay G £50 for the poor service regarding the misinformation 
about resetting telephone banking. I appreciate that the partner representing G will be very 
disappointed when I say that I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that HSBC UK Bank Plc does 
not need to do more than it had already offered to do, and which was to pay G £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman