DRN-4194987
Complaint
Miss J is unhappy Valour Finance Limited (trading as Savvy.co.uk) provided her with a 
high-cost short-term credit instalment loan. She says the loan was unaffordable and 
shouldnt have been provided to her.
Background
This complaint centres around the provision of a high-cost short-term credit instalment loan
for £600, which Savvy provided to Miss J in October 2020. The loan was to be paid in twelve 
monthly instalments of £100.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Js complaint and she didnt think that Savvy had 
done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. So she didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. 
Miss J disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including the
key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive referred to this
when considering Miss Js case.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint. Id like to 
explain the reasons for my decision in a bit more detail.
Savvy needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Savvy needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss J 
could afford to make the monthly repayments she was committing to before providing this 
loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Savvy provided Miss J with a single loan which was due to be repaid in twelve monthly
instalments. From what Ive seen, Savvy had a follow up conversation with Miss J where she 
was asked to confirm her monthly income and expenditure. The information recorded 
suggests the loan repayments were comfortably affordable.
Miss J says the information Savvy based its decision on didnt accurately reflect her actual 
financial position. But I have to think about what Miss J has said in the context of this being 
an application for first loan involving a relatively small amount. And, in these circumstances, I 
dont think that it would have been proportionate for Savvy to have carried out the degree of 
verification Miss J has suggested. 
In my view, there wasnt anything immediately obvious in the information that Savvy had, 
including what was on the credit file, which meant it shouldve asked Miss J to provide 
supporting evidence, such as bank statements, before providing a first loan for this amount. 
In any event, and for the sake of completeness, Ive nonetheless looked at the further 
information Miss J has now provided about her circumstances. And I dont think that there is 
anything in it which indicates that further checks into Miss Js regular living expenses would 
have shown the loan to be unaffordable. So while Im sorry to hear that Miss J has had 
difficulty repaying this loan, I think that Savvys decision to lend wasnt unreasonable. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Savvy did anything wrong when deciding to lend to       
Miss J - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Savvy treated Miss J unfairly or unreasonably when providing her 
with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Js complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss J. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman