DRN-3809022
The complaint
Mr S complains that incorrect information recorded on his credit file by Experian led to a 
mortgage application being declined. 
What happened
In 2020 a business that provides current accounts (L) recorded a default on Mr S credit file. 
L also recorded a default in relation to a credit card. Mr S credit file shows there were two 
missed mortgage payments recorded in 2020. 
In 2021 a County Court Judgement was registered against Mr S on his credit file. But the 
CCJ was set aside a few weeks later so shouldve been removed. 
A few months later, Mr S applied for a mortgage with the intention of purchasing further 
tranches of a shared ownership property he lives in. But the mortgage was declined due to 
information found on Mr S credit file. 
Mr S has told us he was unaware the CCJ remained on his credit file as the address 
Experian used when generating his report wasnt updated when he moved. As a result, Mr S 
says he didnt see the CCJ until the summer of 2022, when Experian updated his address. 
Mr S complained to Experian and said the CCJ had led to his mortgage application being 
declined. As a result, property prices and interest rates have increased and Mr S says hes 
been left with a significant financial loss. Mr S also complained about the service provided 
when he called to discuss his credit file. 
Experian partially upheld Mr S complaint and apologised for the service provided. But 
Experian said the CCJ issue had come about because of differences in postcodes used by 
the organisation that reports CCJs to the credit reference agencies. Experian also said it had 
raised a dispute with L regarding the default but wasnt given permission to remove it. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint. They contacted the mortgage 
lender but was unable to obtain confirmation that the CCJ was the deciding factor in the 
application. 
Experian went on to make an offer of £200 to resolve Mr S complaint. Experian accepted it 
had misreported the CCJ on Mr S credit file and that the service he received was poor. The 
investigator thought Experians offer was fair. Experian accepted it had failed to remove the 
set aside CCJ but noted other information on Mr S credit file that couldve impacted a 
mortgage application. Mr S asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I understand Mr S has found the process of securing a new mortgage deal problematic due 
to information recorded on his credit file. And Mr S has told us he thinks the CCJ and issues 
with his Experian credit file caused his mortgage application to be declined. Im very sorry to 
disappoint Mr S, but I havent seen clear evidence that the mortgage application was 
declined solely on the basis of the CCJ mistakes Experian made. Ill explain why. 
Looking at Mr S credit file over the period of raised, I can see its been amended. Mr S 
forwarded a credit report from another credit reference agency that showed a current 
account and credit card default with L. And Experian recorded a current account default with 
L up until this summer. In addition, looking at Mr S mortgage history, theres evidence of two 
missed payments in 2020. 
Our investigator contacted the mortgage lender Mr S approached but it was only able to 
confirm the application was declined as it failed the credit check. I dont doubt that a CCJ 
wouldve had an impact on any application Mr S made. But I also think its fair to note that 
other factors like defaults and missed mortgage payments are likely to play a role as well. 
The mortgage lender was unable to specifically confirm it was the CCJ that led the 
application to be declined. 
Experian accepts it shouldve removed the CCJ sooner. And I agree that wouldve led to less 
confusion in the long run. But the information Ive seen doesnt show the CCJ was the only 
contributing factor. On balance, I think the default and mortgage arrears could have been 
considered by the potential mortgage lender as well. 
I can see a default with L was removed from Mr S credit file. But the default was removed 
after L gave consent and confirmed it had been recorded in error. Experian raised a dispute 
with L on Mr S behalf and went on to amend the entry, removing its default, once given 
permission to do so. As L was the party responsible for the default reported, Im unable to 
agree Experians treated Mr S unfairly by recording it on his credit file. 
Mr S has also complained that Experian failed to update his address which meant 
information on his credit report wasnt displayed. Experians explained it relies on customers 
to update their details to ensure the credit report provided is accurate and contains all the 
relevant information. Experians explained that the raw data from a consumers credit file is 
access by businesses when carrying out a credit search. When a customer requests a copy 
of their credit report Experian uses their personal details, including address history, to 
produce it. As Mr S current address wasnt updated on Experians systems, the credit 
reports didnt contain up to date details. 
Ive listened to Mr S call with Experian and agree it was poorly handled and that the agent 
was unprofessional. It was fair for Experian to offer compensation in the circumstances. 
I agree Experian incorrectly reported a CCJ on Mr S credit file but I havent found evidence 
that supports the view it was the sole deciding factor in relation to his mortgage application. 
Im satisfied theres other information on Mr S credit file that would likely have been taken 
into account. I agree there was a delay in removing the default which caused confusion. And 
I agree the service provided by Experian was poor at times. Experian has made an offer of £200 to reflect the level of distress and inconvenience 
caused. Mr S credit file now appears to be in the correct position. And Im satisfied the £200 
fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused. As Experian has already made 
an offer thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Experian Limited should pay Mr S £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman