DRN-3303377
The complaint
Mrs N is represented by her sister, Mrs A, in bringing her complaint. She says Vitality Life 
Limited has unfairly refused Mrs Ns critical illness claim for significant hearing loss.   
What happened
Mrs N took out her policy in October 2019 through a third party financial adviser. It offers her 
life insurance and serious (critical) illness cover for a 25-year term. The sums assured are 
£253,125 and £111,375 respectively.    
The critical illness cover provided by the policy is severity based, meaning in the event of a 
valid claim for any listed condition, a sum of between 15% and 100% of the full sum assured 
would be payable depending on the defined severity of each condition.
In 2020, Mrs Ns hearing deteriorated to hearing only high pitched or loud noises and she 
noted this had been worsened by suffering from COVID-19. She was seen at a high street 
audiology service that confirmed hearing loss was present in both ears. 
Mrs N contacted Vitality in May 2020. It explained to Mrs N that her policy terms required two 
tests to be taken six months apart in order to assess a claim against the policy wording. Mrs 
N therefore returned to Vitality in November 2020. 
She was seen by an Ear, Nose and Throat Specialist (who I will call Dr W) in November 
2020 and December 2020 because the pure tone audiogram (PTA) undertaken upon 
admission to the department suggested she had bilateral severe or profound hearing loss.  
Dr W therefore referred Mrs N to Dr J, a Chief Audiologist. Mrs N then undertook an auditory 
brainstem response test (ABR), which showed Mrs Ns hearing was normal. He also retook 
Mrs Ns PTA test, and the result had improved considerably. In the interim, Vitality wrote to 
Dr W for his assessment on Mrs Ns hearing loss. 
In February 2021, Mrs N sought medical help again as she felt her hearing had worsened. 
She also underwent two further PTAs in February and June 2021 at the same high street 
testing facility. 
Vitality sent the results of these tests to Dr W. In August 2021, he confirmed to Vitality that 
his view of December 2020 was unchanged, and he did not believe Mrs N to be suffering 
from severe hearing loss. 
Vitality therefore told Mrs N it couldnt pay a claim as her consultant did not agree she had 
suffered from irreversible significant hearing loss in both ears. It did accept it had taken 
longer than it should have to progress the claim and made other administrative errors. It paid 
Mrs N £75 and thereafter a further £150 for the upset caused by poor service. 
Mrs N complained, but Vitality would not change its view on the complaint. It said it had 
reasonably relied on Dr Ws assessment.  
So, Mrs A brought Mrs Ns complaint to this service. She explained that Mrs N had suffered 
a great deal of stress and anxiety which was made worse by Vitality in pursuing the claim.   
An investigator considered the complaint. He concluded that Vitality had fairly declined the 
claim. Specifically, he felt that though the pure tone audiometry had identified deteriorated 
hearing levels for Mrs N, the policy also required the hearing loss to be permanent and 
irreversible  and there was no supporting evidence that this was the case.  
Mrs A said she wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. Vitality had no further 
comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mrs Ns circumstances, and I can see from Mrs As explanation that 
things have been particularly stressful for her. Whilst I recognise that, I am of the view that 
Vitality has fairly refused the claim. 
To be fair to both parties in a complaint, I need to look at the policy itself and decide if Vitality 
has acted within the policy terms. Mrs N s policy provides that a lump sum payment of a 
specified severity will be made to her (section B2.1 of the policy terms) if she is diagnosed 
with one of the conditions covered as a serious illness. The policy wording then goes on to 
provide an exhaustive list of those illnesses/critical events.
The policy wording that applies to Mrs N says:
Ear to Age 70 category  specified conditions of defined severity
Significant Hearing Loss in Both Ears
Permanent and irreversible loss of hearing to the extent that the loss is greater than 
70 decibels across all frequencies in the better ear using a pure tone audiogram. 
There should be at least two measurements over a period of six months in order for a 
claim to be considered.
The policy wording also goes further than the summary above. It has additional terms which 
set out how severity is measured. For Level C claims it says:
Severity Level C:
Significant hearing loss in both ears
3. Evidence Required In The Event Of A Claim
Any or all of the following may apply to any claim under this category:
Relevant investigations and reports must be available
Must be diagnosed and treated by an appropriate medical specialist
Must have relevant signs and symptoms
I accept that Mrs N had a PTA in mid-2020 from the high street provider which showed 
frequencies greater than 70 decibels. And I note that where hearing loss is broadly 
categorised (as mild, moderate, severe, or profound) that severe is approximately 71 to 
95dB, and excess of that is profound.  Though I havent set it out here, Mrs Ns policy wording also provides for deafness which is 
hearing loss greater than 95dB across all frequencies. 
I also recognise that on her return to the provider in 2021, it was said that her hearing loss 
bilaterally was between 90 and 115 dB following a PTA. However, I am mindful that the 
results on the two PTAs undertaken in November and December 2020 differed significantly, 
and the second of those showed an improved threshold of 25-40dB across all frequencies in 
both ears and was below the 70dB threshold for significant/severe hearing loss.  
In his first specialist report supplied to Vitality, Dr W was asked if Mrs Ns hearing loss was 
reversible. He answered, no hearing loss on objective testing. He confirmed in his view that 
the PTA was subjective, and the ABR test was the reliable objective measure of Mrs Ns 
hearing loss.  
Further, in his letter to Dr W of 23 December 2020, Dr J set out that:
Some objective tests were carried out which suggested better thresholds than her 
previous PTA indicated. ABR was limited due to myogenic artefact.
In view of the difference I carried out a repeat PTA which showed improved 
thresholds in both ears. Nothing on the objective tests would contradict these results 
and they may well be dose to her true hearing levels. I am not sure I would 
recommend any intervention at this point. Certainly her functional hearing in clinic 
with face masks on was fine.
Therefore I have discharged her.
Given the results from Mrs Ns high street provider differed considerably again in 2021 
(showing hearing loss between 95-115 dB across all frequencies and again in both ears), 
Vitality rightly sought the opinion of Dr W again. He was asked please confirm if the PTA 
from [high street provider] are a true reflection of her hearing? to which he replied, in my 
opinion, based on the December 2020 ABR, I do not think that they are.
I cannot, in isolation, place weight on findings from the high street facility over those of Dr W. 
It doesnt mean I doubt an assessment of hearing undertaken by a suitably skilled person, 
but I do not find that these different PTAs cast doubt on either of the appropriately qualified 
medical assessments from Dr W or Dr J, especially as they took note of those PTA tests.   
I say that with particular reference to the policy terms Ive set out above requiring 
assessment from an appropriate medical specialist. In the glossary of terms for Mrs Ns 
cover, that person is defined as a medical consultant or equivalent at a hospital in the 
United Kingdom or any of the permitted countries. It is therefore correct that when Mrs Ns 
further PTA results were supplied from 2021, that these were put to Dr W or Dr J. 
Dr W was also asked in 2021 if Mrs N suffered from profound hearing loss, and if so, if any 
hearing loss was likely to be permanent. To that, he confirmed I do not believe there is a 
profound hearing loss, based on my last assessment in December 2020. please ensure 
you understand the difference between subjective testing (PTA)and objective testing (ABR). 
Subjective tests rely on the patient to respond to a sound. Objective tests do not. 
I accept that a PTA of over 70dB in the better ear is the acceptable test and measure for the 
policy terms to be satisfied in part. However, I dont find it unfair for Dr W or Dr J to assess 
the PTA results against other forms of objective diagnostic testing to form a complete view. 
Given the strength of Dr Ws explanation on the matter, I cannot conclude that his or Dr Js assessments should be discounted. They take the view that ABR testing showed Mrs N 
doesnt have severe or profound hearing loss. Thats not to say she isnt understandably 
suffering with her hearing, but that she is experiencing mild or moderate hearing loss under 
70dB, as borne out by the repeat test in December 2020. And unfortunately the Vitality policy 
doesnt have a severity level below level C.  
Even if I had found that the evidence ought to have been relied upon regarding the readings 
in excess of 90dB (which for the reasons given by Dr W I do not), I dont find Vitality to have 
been unreasonable in refusing the claim in the circumstances anyway. That is because there 
is no material evidence to confirm that Mrs Ns hearing loss is both permanent and 
irreversible. Those points would need to be satisfied in the event of a valid claim.  
I know Mrs Ns hearing loss is a serious and upsetting matter for her. But in order to 
conclude a claim is payable I would need to conclude -based on evidence- that Vitality had 
enough information by which to satisfy the policy definition above. And that isnt the case 
here. 
That notwithstanding, Mrs Ns policy continues to provide serious illness benefit for another 
22 years. Mrs N remains free to seek fresh medical evidence from an appropriate medical 
specialist to determine if she meets the policy definition set out above in full. Any such 
evidence can then be presented to Vitality.
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs Ns circumstances, I dont find Vitality Life Limited to have 
behaved unfairly or unreasonably in refusing her serious illness claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman