DRN-3276370
The complaint
Mrs E complains that QIC Europe Ltd has unfairly avoided her buildings insurance policy 
(treated it as if it never existed) and declined a claim.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 30 November 2021, an extract of which is 
detailed below.
Mrs E is represented by a third party in bringing this complaint and references I make to 
her actions include those of her representative. The circumstances of this complaint are 
well known to the parties, so Ill summarise what happened.
Mrs E owned a property insured by a QIC insurance policy under one of its trading 
names. The policy was taken out in 2014 after Mrs E obtained a quote from an 
insurance comparison site. The policy was renewed in each of the subsequent years up 
to and including the renewal in July 2018, covering the period up to July 2019.
The property was destroyed by a fire in January 2019, under tragic circumstances. Mrs E 
made a claim on the policy but it was declined by QIC as it said she had made a number 
of misrepresentations when renewing the policy as her personal circumstances had 
changed over time.
These changes were:
In May 2017, she had moved away from the insured property to start a bed 
and breakfast business in another part of the country, 300 miles away.
While, her adult children remained at the property, some lodgers had moved in 
from August 2017 and were paying rent.
Because of these changes, QIC says Mrs E should have corrected the answers to a 
number of questions when renewing her policy in 2017 and 2018. QIC says she should 
have notified it of anything in the Your details and requirements document provided at 
renewal that was incorrect or if her circumstances had changed, which they had, as 
follows:
The insured property was used for business purposes.
The property was not occupied by her but by You and your family with 
paying guests/lodgers or Not by me, by tenant(s).
It was no longer her main residence.
It was used as a rental property.
Because she didnt inform QIC of the changes when renewing the policy, it says she 
misrepresented the risk and, if she had provided the correct up to date information, it 
would have declined the renewal.
Mrs E said when it sent her information about the renewal of the policy, QIC didnt provide 
a list of alternative answers to these questions and she had believed what shed provided 
to still be correct, saying:
She maintained a room at the property, stayed there whenever practical and 
still considered it her main residence.
The lodgers were, in the main, friends of her children and there were no formal 
tenancy agreements in place so she didnt consider them to be tenants or that 
the property was rented out.
She didnt think the property was used for business purposes as no one 
ran a business, as she understood it, from the property.
Unhappy with QICs response, Mrs E brought her complaint to this Service. Our 
Investigator considered everything and concluded Mrs E had misrepresented the facts 
when responding to the questions about business use and occupancy but these werent 
qualifying misrepresentations so QIC wasnt entitled to take any action based on these 
issues.
She also thought Mrs E had misrepresented the facts when responding to the question 
about whether the property was her main residence and hadnt taken reasonable care in 
responding to the question. But she thought Mrs E would likely have answered Second 
Home when asked about what the house was used for and the underwriting guide 
showed QIC would still have offered the policy if she had answered this way so it wasnt 
entitled to take any action on this issue either.
Because of this, she thought QIC had unfairly avoided the policy and declined the claim. 
She said QIC should reinstate the policy from when it was voided, remove any reference 
to it being voided and should reconsider the claim in line with the rest of the policy terms.
QIC didnt agree with the outcome saying that it had asked Mrs E to check the answers 
shed provided and the details of her policy and there was guidance on its website 
together with a list of options to amend her answers to, that more accurately reflected her 
current circumstances. It also said the evidence it had provided showed Mrs E hadnt 
answered the questions correctly and if she had, it wouldnt have offered renewal of the 
policy.
Mrs E maintained that even if she had seen the alternative options - which she said 
she hadnt  she would likely still have answered the way she did.
QIC asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about this complaint very carefully, Im currently not minded to uphold 
it. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mrs E
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution 
Rules (DISP). These rules say I must make my decision by reference to what I consider to 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. DISP 3.6.4R says I need to 
take into account relevant:law and regulations;
regulators rules guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
I know the fire and the circumstances surrounding it were tragic and must have been 
hugely difficult for Mrs E. The nature of my role is that I must assess the evidence from an 
independent and impartial perspective and reach a decision I consider fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. That may mean at times my decision sounds rather matter of fact 
and dispassionate and I mean no disrespect by this, its just the nature of my role.
QIC voided Mrs Es policy and refunded her premium citing The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) as relevant law. And Mrs Es 
representative has made submissions on how QIC applied this. I think its appropriate 
to consider the Acts principles in determining what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
This Act requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). Whether or not a consumer 
has taken reasonable care is to be determined in the light of all the relevant 
circumstances. The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. In 
summary, for it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would 
have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of example considerations for deciding whether the 
consumer failed to take reasonable care, these include:
How clear and specific the insurers questions were.
In the case of a failure to respond to the insurers questions in connection with 
the renewal or variation of a consumer insurance contract, how clearly the 
insurer communicated the importance of answering those questions (or the 
possible consequences of failing to do so).
A misrepresentation can be careless or reckless or deliberate. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is careless if it isnt reckless or deliberate, and in this case QIC 
has treated it as a careless misrepresentation
QIC says Mrs E failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she responded to certain questions and statements when the policy was renewed.
Was there any misrepresentation?
The first thing I need to consider is if Mrs E misrepresented the facts when renewing the
policy in 2017 and 2018. If the answers provided were correct, theres no 
misrepresentation.
QIC sent a renewal invitation to Mrs E by email prior to the policy renewal date each year, and Im satisfied this was sent to the correct address. This invitation let Mrs E 
know the policy was coming up for renewal and explained what she needed to do. In 
particular, it enclosed details of what shed disclosed previously about her personal 
circumstances and details about the insured property with its occupation and usage. It 
included an instruction that if any of the information was incorrect or if Mrs Es 
circumstances had changed, she needed to contact QIC to let in know or the insurance 
might be invalid.
As she failed to let QIC know about the changes, QIC says she didnt take reasonable 
care to not make a misrepresentation when doing this.
Ill explain my thinking on each of the alleged misrepresentations in 
turn. In doing this I have considered:
The question asked.
The answer that was given.
Whether the answer was incorrect or incomplete.
The first statement in question was Your property is NOT used for business purposes
Mrs Es response to this statement was I agree.
From Mrs Es testimony, its clear there were a number of people staying at the property 
who were paying rent of £400 per month per person in exchange for the provision of 
accommodation. The rent was paid to Mrs Es son, who was responsible for renting out the 
rooms, and he in turn passed it on to Mrs E. This produced an income which Mrs E says 
was reported to HMRC as part of her tax return.
I acknowledge some of the lodgers were friends of family members but this alone 
wouldnt persuade me that such relationships sit outside business purposes. Its also 
clear from Mrs Es testimony her son advertised rooms on the internet, she says through 
social media or a rooms to let style website. But even if the lodgers were predominantly 
friends, Im not persuaded this makes a difference  they were still paying rent in 
exchange for accommodation.
Mrs E has also explained there werent any formal tenancy agreements in place, but that 
on occasions her son typed out an informal agreement letting lodgers know details of 
when rent needed to be paid and
so that they knew that they had a room and they wasnt going to get kicked 
out, cause we just fancied it.
Stays were of variable time periods but in at least one case were up to a year in length. 
And individual bedrooms were fitted with locks allowing lodgers to secure their rooms and 
their possessions from access by other residents of the property.
Taking all of these facts into account, I dont think it was accurate to maintain a record that 
the property wasnt used for business purposes. Mrs E had a clear commercial 
arrangement to receive income in exchange for allowing occupancy of her home. And 
because Mrs E didnt correct this, Im satisfied there was a misrepresentation here.
The next statement was, Who is the property occupied by?
The answer Mrs E had provided previously was You and your family and she agreed to this statement again at these renewals.
But by May 2017, before the renewal in 2017, she had moved 300 miles away to run a 
bed and breakfast business with her husband in which they were the only employees. 
And while she may still have considered the insured property to be her home and may 
have retained a room to stay in on visits, Im not satisfied it was accurate to say the 
property was occupied by her and her family as she wasnt there the majority of the time.
Additionally, by Summer 2017, a lodger had moved into the property and others 
followed through Autumn 2017 and into 2018.
So, the property wasnt occupied by Mrs E and her family at the time of the renewals, as 
Mrs E wasnt there and at least one lodger was. Im satisfied there was a 
misrepresentation here.
And thirdly, another statement was, It is your main residence
Mrs Es previously recorded response to this statement was I agree.
As Ive explained above, by the renewal time, Mrs E had moved to run her business in 
another area of the country albeit she returned occasionally to the risk address and says 
she maintained a room there. But she spent the majority of her time 300 miles away from 
the property running a business. Indeed, she had changed the address for 
correspondence on her bank account to the new address.
So, I dont think it was accurate to say it was her main residence. And Im satisfied there 
was a misrepresentation here given she didnt contact QIC to inform it of the change in 
circumstances.
Were there any qualifying misrepresentations?
Having established that Mrs E did misrepresent the facts, I now need to consider whether 
these were qualifying misrepresentations. Its only if they are that QIC can take action. 
Here I need to consider:
If Mrs E took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation in the light of all 
the relevant circumstances.
Whether QIC has shown that without the misrepresentation, it wouldnt have 
provided the policy or only have done so on different terms.
Did Mrs E take reasonable care?
The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. So, in short, what a 
reasonable consumer would have done in the same circumstances.
The renewal documents sent to Mrs E in 2017 and 2018, included two clear warnings 
about the importance of ensuring everything quoted was correct and the potential impact 
on the cover if it wasnt. The first was included in the covering letter:
You need to let us know if anything is incorrect or your circumstances 
have changed, otherwise your insurance cover may be invalid
Then in the section containing Mrs Es key personal details:
Your cover is based on this information, so please check that all the details are still correct and continue to reflect your individual needs and circumstances. You 
need to tell us if any of these answers are not correct.
When confirmation of the renewal of the policy was sent through theres a further request 
to ensure the details quoted are correct.
Im satisfied these warnings are displayed prominently and their meanings are clear. I think 
a reasonable consumer would have understood what was required and the potential 
impact if the renewal of the policy was based on incorrect information.
Ive gone on to consider how clear and specific the statements and questions were.
Your property is NOT used for business purposes
Mrs E maintains that a business, as she understands it, isnt run from the property. But I 
think a reasonable consumer would say the nature of the rental arrangements in place, 
the income derived from them and the other factors Ive describe previously means that 
the property is used for business purposes. Im satisfied the question is sufficiently clear 
and Mrs E didnt respond with reasonable care.
Who is the property occupied by?
I think a reasonable consumer when asked this question would understand what it 
meant and that if there were lodgers paying rent in the property and the policyholder 
didnt live there, You and your family would not be an accurate answer. Im satisfied 
the question is sufficiently clear and Mrs E didnt respond with reasonable care.
It is your main residence
While Mrs E may still have considered this her home, she did in fact live at the business 
property she ran with her husband some 300 miles away. She spent most of her time 
there, had key financial post sent there and only occasionally visited the risk address. I 
think a reasonable consumer would not consider the risk address to be the main 
residence given these facts. Im satisfied the question is sufficiently clear and Mrs E didnt 
respond with reasonable care.
As Ive explained previously, the renewal documents instructed Mrs E to contact QIC if 
any of the information contained in the renewal invitation was incorrect or her personal 
circumstances had changed. QIC has said, even if Mrs E didnt phone but had logged 
onto her online account, she would have seen the alternative responses that were 
available that would have better reflected her updated circumstances together with 
additional explanatory guidance. And indeed, QICs records show that Mrs E had 
performed a password reset before renewal in 2018.
In response to this, Mrs E has said the statements she responded to werent clear and it 
didnt cross her mind the answers she gave werent correct. And while she may have had 
access to the help section providing additional clarification, she didnt see it. And QIC 
didnt do enough to make things clear.
But Im not persuaded by this argument as Im satisfied, on balance, that a reasonable 
consumer would have known the responses provided were incorrect and no longer 
accurately reflected the current circumstances even without seeing the alternative 
answers or the guidance. As Ive said, the renewal documents instructed Mrs E to 
contact QIC but she did not.Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs E took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when responding to these questions and statements.
What would QIC have done if it had known the real facts?
Having established Mrs E didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, 
Ive then gone on to consider what QIC would have done.
QIC has shared its underwriting guide with this service. This document is 
commercially sensitive so I wont repeat it in detail here but necessarily will refer to 
what it would have done if it had been aware of the true facts.
I have considered each of the three areas in turn.
Your property is NOT used for business purposes
QICs underwriting guide shows that had it known the property was used for 
business purposes of this type, it would have declined to renew the policy.
Who is the property occupied by?
Again, the guide shows if QIC had it known lodgers occupied the property, it would 
have declined to renew the policy.
It is your main residence
And if QIC had known it wasnt Mrs Es main residence it may have offered to renew the 
policy depending on the answer to a subsidiary question. This question refers to whether 
the property is rented out. On this, QIC has already said that if it was known Mrs E was 
receiving an income from paying lodgers, then it wouldnt have offered renewal of the 
policy.
So, in summary, for the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied QIC wouldnt have entered 
into the contract or renewed the policy had it known the true answers to the questions.
Because of this, Im satisfied there has been a qualifying misrepresentation.
The type of qualifying misrepresentation
CIDRA states there can be different types of qualifying misrepresentation and these are:
deliberate or reckless; or
careless
They have different remedies under CIDRA.
In this case, QIC hasnt put forward a case that Mrs Es misrepresentation was deliberate 
or reckless. Instead, its treated the misrepresentation as careless and avoided the 
policy and refunded the premiums to Mrs E. Im satisfied its entitled to do this.
Overall, Im satisfied QIC has acted fairly in avoiding the policy and refunding the 
premiums and I dont intend to direct it to do anything further.QIC accepted my provisional decision. Mrs E didnt bring any new evidence but responded 
with some further comments which Ive summarised below:
The circumstances of the fire were distressing and traumatic, and its had huge 
personal and financial consequences. Mrs Es been experiencing a very difficult time 
since and dealing with the claim has made things worse.
She had no recollection of completing a number of quotes and thought this might 
have been because she was dealing with some difficult family circumstances at the 
time.
Ive reached a different conclusion than the Investigator and she doesnt understand 
how this can happen when the evidence is the same. 
Because she didnt see the other available options, she didnt think it was necessary 
to change anything when renewing the policy. She still thought she had responded 
correctly to the statements and questions at renewal and reiterated her reasons for 
answering as she did.
She referred to our Investigators findings on the matter of the subsidiary question 
about what the property was used for and didnt think QICs underwriting guide 
showed QIC wouldnt have offered her a policy if shed chosen second home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill respond to the key points from Mrs Es comments in turn.
Personal circumstances 
I acknowledge Mrs Es comments about the family issues she was dealing with at the time of 
the policy renewal in 2018 and the very difficult circumstances of the fire and the personal 
impact on her and her family.
As I explained in my provisional decision, my role requires me to consider the complaint from 
an impartial perspective and while I have considerable sympathy for Mrs E, I must evaluate 
the evidence dispassionately. 
The difference in the outcome
My investigation is independent of the Investigators and the conclusions Ive reached are 
based on that independent assessment and interpretation of the evidence presented by 
Mrs E and QIC.
Having done this, my conclusions were different from those reached by the Investigator and 
thats why I sent a provisional decision to explain my reasoning and to give the parties the 
opportunity to comment.
Mrs Es responses when renewing the policy 
Mrs E says she has no recollection of completing renewal quotes for the policy and says she 
didnt see any other options which led her to think the responses she made previously 
needed to be changed to reflect her current circumstances. She also reiterated her rationale 
for responding as she did.While I acknowledge what Mrs E says here, the principles applied by QIC, commented on by 
Mrs Es representative and which I think were appropriate to consider the complaint against 
in reaching a determination thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, are those in 
the The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
There is a valid argument that, in fact, Mrs E was a commercial customer given how the 
property was being used, and so the Insurance Act 2015 is potentially relevant law. 
However, the less onerous considerations of CIDRA for consumers rather than commercial 
customers are those that QIC assessed Mrs E against, and in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied its fair and reasonable to use those considerations in determining Mrs Es 
complaint.
CIDRA requires a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. The 
standard of care, in responding to QICs statements and questions, is that of a reasonable 
consumer. In short, I have to consider what a reasonable consumer would have done in the 
same circumstances. And as I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied the 
statements and questions were sufficiently clear that a reasonable consumer would have 
known the responses provided were incorrect and no longer accurately reflected the current 
circumstances even without seeing the alternative answers or the guidance.
I also remain satisfied the warnings Mrs E was provided with, about the consequences of 
not responding accurately, were displayed prominently and their meanings were clear. 
I think a reasonable consumer would have understood what was required and the potential 
impact if the renewal of the policy was based on incorrect information.
What the property was used for
Mrs E was intially asked to respond to the statement about the insured address, It is your 
main residence. Mrs E agreed to this which Ive already concluded wasnt correct. 
But if she had disagreed, she would have had to respond to a subsidiary question. I didnt 
agree with our Investigator that Second Home would have been an accurate response to 
this subsidiary question. The question refers to whether the property is rented out  and it 
was. 
And on this, QIC has already said that if it was known Mrs E was receiving an income from 
paying lodgers, then it wouldnt have offered renewal of the policy. And Im satisfied this is 
accurately reflected in its underwriting guide.
Summary
Having thought about this complaint very carefully again, I wont be upholding it for the 
reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision and my additional comments above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman