DRN-4336956
The complaint
Mrs T complains that her Guaranteed Over 50 Plan which she took out with Aviva Life 
Services UK Limited (Aviva) is unfair. She says shes paid more in premiums than the 
policy will pay out.
What happened
In August 2001, Mrs T took out a whole life policy with Aviva. She selected to pay a £6 
monthly premium, payable quarterly, and a guaranteed death benefit, after two years, of 
£940. The amount payable would be higher in the event of Mrs T dying whilst travelling.
Mrs T says shes now paid £1,620 in premiums which is more than Aviva will pay out.
Aviva said it didnt advise Mrs T to take out the policy and that the nature of it is such that 
policy holders who live longer risk paying more in premiums than the sum assured. It said 
Mrs T could continue paying for the policy up until the age of 95 to ensure the sum due is 
paid out, or she can stop making the payments and the policy will pay out £721 when she 
dies; or she can stop making the payments and cancel the policy and she will receive 
£629.05. (These figures are as at 11 August 2023 when Aviva sent Mrs T its final response 
to her complaint).
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Aviva hadnt advised Mrs T to take out the policy, so wasnt responsible for ensuring it was 
suitable for her. And that Aviva warned Mrs T of the risk that the premiums paid could be 
greater than the amount the policy pays out.
Mrs T didnt agree. She said, in summary, that she couldnt have read the information about 
the policy properly because, had she known she could pay more in premiums than the policy 
was worth, she wouldnt have taken it out. She said the policy was unfair, that the amount 
she was being offered wouldnt pay for a cremation, and that she should have kept her 
money in a bank account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for largely the 
same reasons. I do understand Mrs Ts concerns and why she feels so strongly that shes 
been treated unfairly - because shes paid more in premiums than the policy will pay out. But 
Ill explain why I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
The plan was sold more than 20 years ago so I cant say exactly what happened and I dont 
expect Mrs T to remember what she was told, or what she read about the policy, before she 
decided to take it out. So Ive relied on the paperwork Aviva has been able to provide from 
the time of the sale.
Aviva didnt give Mrs T advice, so it wasnt responsible for ensuring the policy was suitable 
for her needs. But it did need to ensure Mrs T was given enough information so she could 
decide for herself if the policy was appropriate for her.
I can see from the application form that Mrs T chose to pay a monthly premium of £6 and 
that it was reasonably clear that this guaranteed her a death benefit of £940 after two years, 
or £2,820 if she died as a result of an accident (as defined in the policy terms). Whilst Mrs T 
isnt happy that the amount the policy will pay will cover funeral costs, Im satisfied that the 
value of the policy was clear and that she chose this value by selecting the corresponding 
premium payment. It wasnt a funeral plan, and I dont find there was any suggestion that the 
amount would increase with inflation.
The application made it reasonably clear that Mrs T should read the key features of the 
policy before deciding to take it out. The key features included a relatively prominent box 
with the heading Risk Factors, and this included the following wording:
If you live long enough the total premiums paid will eventually be greater than the amount 
payable on death.
And there were some illustrations which showed that in the later years of the policy, the 
policyholder might get back less than they paid in premiums.
I appreciate Mrs T feels she cant have read that information properly because she says she 
wouldnt have taken out the policy if she had. But Im satisfied the warning was in the 
information she received before she decided to take out the policy, and that it was clear and 
not misleading. I cant hold Aviva responsible if Mrs T didnt read the information or made an 
incorrect assumption about how the plan worked.
I recognise Mrs T has now paid more into the policy than the guaranteed fixed sum and she 
feels the policy is unfair. The way these plans work is that some policyholders will end up 
paying more in premiums than the policy ultimately pays out. That sort of risk is part of the 
very nature of insurance and there is nothing inherently wrong with this  but we do expect 
that the risk is highlighted in the policy documents. Here it was.
In all the circumstances, I cant say that the policy was mis-sold to Mrs T or that Aviva has 
treated her unfairly or contrary to the policy terms.
In its final response to her complaint, Aviva gave Mrs T two alternatives if she didnt want to 
continue to pay the premiums as Ive briefly set out in the What happened section above. 
I think Aviva has treated Mrs T fairly by providing her with these alternatives and I 
understand shes now cancelled the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman