DRN-4068136
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the settlement he has been offered by U K Insurance Limited trading 
as Direct Line (UKI) after he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr B was in an accident which damaged his car, so he made a claim to 
UKI, his car insurance provider. 
UKI deemed the car a total loss and offered a settlement which they said was market value 
totalling £24,498 before excess deduction.
Mr B believes the settlement should be between £30-35,000, so he asked this service to 
look into things.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He said the settlement 
offer made by UKI was fair, so he didnt recommend it be increased.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Mr Bs policy says in the event a car is written-off UKI can pay the market value. This is 
defined in the policy as:
Market Value The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and 
model, and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
As outlined to Mr B by our investigator, this services typical approach when considering 
complaints about the fair market value of a vehicle is to take into account what the market 
leading motor trade guides say the market value is.
The guides are independent of the insurance industry, and from one another. As a service, 
we find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. We are confident these guides give a good reflection of the true market 
value of a vehicle.
I should also point out that this service generally finds these motor trade guides to be more 
persuasive than sales adverts. This is because advertised prices are often the starting point 
of a negotiation and what the seller would like to achieve, rather than the final price it sells 
for after negotiation.
UKI initially determined the market value of Mr Bs car using valuations obtained through 
industry trade guides. Ive seen the valuations and they were based on the correct vehicle 
and mileage at the time of loss, these resulted in valuations of:
Glass £22,860
CAP £17,518
In addition to these guides, UKI also considered adverts for similar cars (which actually had 
lower mileage) on Autotrader for the time of loss. These were advertised at £23,995 and 
£25,000, so higher than the trade guide valuations. Although the trade guides produced 
lower values, UKI paid the average of the two adverts and offered settlement of £24,498 
before excess deduction.
Our investigator also obtained an additional valuation from Cazoo, but this was nearer to 
£35,000. And Autotrader was unable to provide a trade guide valuation. So, as Cazoo was 
significantly higher than the other two trade guides available, and the adverts UKI based the 
settlement on, he considered the much higher value from Cazoo as an outlier and 
discounted it.
I agree with the investigator here that Cazoo should be considered an outlier given the 
significant difference in the valuation it has produced. And UKI has actually offered higher 
than the remaining trade guide valuations which could be obtained. So, I think the offer 
made by UKI is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, so Im not going to 
direct them to increase it.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman