DRN-4234108
The complaint
J, a limited company, has complained that Western Provident Association Limited (WPA) 
has unfairly increased its premiums.
What happened
J has a private medical insurance policy underwritten by WPA with cover for its employees 
and family members.
At the 2020-2021 renewal of the policy, J complained to WPA about the level of increase to 
its premiums. It said the overall percentage increase since joining was unreasonable based 
on the Association of British Insurers (ABI) leaflet provided when the policy was originally 
taken in 2012.
WPA explained it had increased premiums due to a number of factors. Unhappy with WPAs 
response to the complaint, J referred its complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think WPA had calculated or increased 
premiums unfairly. 
J disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
No calculations or methodology has been provided.  
The investigator hasnt confirmed whether the information reviewed is from WPA or 
general trends of private medical insurance. 
J wants me to consider whether it is fair to be given a projection of premium growth 
at the start of the policy which has turned out to be inaccurate.
J cannot see that accepted medical inflation fits with the change in premiums. 
The pricing of risk will be similar to all insurers. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
As this complaint relates to premium pricing, I will be looking at whether WPA fairly 
increased Js premiums in line with how it increases premiums for other customers in similar 
situations. 
I should start by saying that the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt set the rules on how 
an insurer can price complaints. Its up to an insurer to decide how much to charge for its 
policies so long as it exercises its judgement fairly and consistently and in accordance with 
its internal guidelines. 
And the Financial Conduct Authority doesnt regulate the prices an insurer charges or the 
methods used to calculate a price. So I cant make any comment on the way an insurer 
chooses to assess a risk or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk. But I can check 
whether WPA has applied any terms fairly and also that it hasnt treated J unfairly compared 
to others in the same position. 
WPA has explained it takes into account a number of factors when looking at premiums 
including age, area, level of cover and claims.
WPA has provided an explanation of how its premiums were priced. Ive checked the criteria 
applied by WPA. And it applies the same criteria to others in the same position. So I dont 
think its done anything wrong here. 
I cannot ask WPA to share commercially sensitive information. But I have seen and checked 
the information and calculations it has provided for the premium increases. I havent seen 
anything which shows that J has been treated differently or unfairly. 
J has referred to the 2012 ABI leaflet and has asked whether its fair for the premiums to 
have increased so much since 2012. As explained by WPA, the leaflet is outdated and is a 
general guide to private medical insurance. The private medical insurance policy is an 
annual contract and as explained above, prices arent regulated. An insurer is entitled to 
decide the premium it charges based on the risks it identifies. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman