DRN-3225034
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the service they received from Brewin Dolphin Limited in 
transferring their investment portfolio to a new ISA manager  and say they have suffered 
financial losses as a result. They say the transfer process caused them hours of effort 
chasing things up and significant worry.   
What happened
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs G decided to move their investment portfolio held in stock and 
shares ISAs away from Brewin Dolphin and instructed a new ISA manager to commence the 
transfer. 
During the transfer process they encountered delays and spent time chasing Brewin Dolphin 
and the new ISA manager for an explanation for why the portfolios hadnt been transferred. 
The final stock transferred for Mrs Gs ISA settled on 4 March 2020. The full transfer of Mr 
Gs ISA completed around two weeks later. 
Mr and Mrs G raised a complaint with Brewin Dolphin as they felt they had been treated 
poorly during the transfer process. They explained the value of their investments had fallen 
significantly during the time it took to complete the transfer. They were also unable to trade 
at the time - which was concerning during a volatile market. They say this has caused them 
a significant financial loss on the value of their investments. They raised specific concerns 
about the delay in transfer of a unit trust holding and confusion about a missing 
shareholding. They said the whole situation had caused them a lot of worry and led to them 
spending many hours trying to resolve everything.
Brewin Dolphin responded to the complaint. It didnt think that it had caused delays in the 
transfer process. In summary it said: 
- It discharged its responsibilities to Mr and Mrs G in both the transfer of their holdings 
and fulfilling any instructions. And while it acknowledged Mr and Mrs Gs anxiety 
about the drop in value of their investment, this was due to volatility seen in the 
markets at the time of transfer, which isnt something Brewin Dolphin can control.
- Mrs Gs stock transfer took 26 working days to complete. Mr Gs followed a similar 
process, but it had to re-send transfer forms to a unit trust manager as they didnt 
receive the first form. And shares in unit trusts can take longer to settle depending on 
the fund manager's processes. 
- With regards to missing shares, the issue related to the new ISA manager not 
providing answers to queries regarding this during the transfer process. Brewin 
Dolphin provided them with a valuation of the portfolios prior to the transfer which 
clearly detailed the correct shareholding. 
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021  I said I intended to uphold the complaint 
in part. 
This is what I said:
Brewin Dolphin has provided a copy of the terms and conditions relevant to Mr and Mrs Gs 
portfolio. These indicate once a request to terminate the relationship is received it will move 
to an execution only service. It doesnt provide precise details on how long a transfer will 
take. But the terms say We will carry out your reasonable instructions relating to the 
termination as soon as reasonably practicable. We will continue to hold your investments 
and client money until they are transferred in accordance with your instructions. 
I can see that Brewin Dolphin received an instruction from the new ISA manager, in 
accordance with Mr and Mrs G's instruction, for their ISA accounts to be transferred in-
specie. This means it was their intention to leave their holdings invested as part of the 
transfer  as opposed to selling and transferring as cash. Brewing Dolphin says HMRC has 
provided guidance to say in-specie ISA transfers should take 30 working days. And with 
regard to Mr and Mrs Gs investments, there was only one line of stock that prevented the 
full transfer from being completed within 30 working days. In my experience, a timescale of a 
month isnt uncommon for this type of transfer. And an in-specie transfer can take longer 
than a transfer in cash due to the added complexity of moving a holding from one platform to 
another.  
Ive looked at the available evidence to see the timeline of events in the transfer of Mr and 
Mrs Gs investments. At the end of January 2020, Mr and Mrs G had been discussing with 
their broker transferring their portfolios with Brewin Dolphin. I can see the new ISA manager 
sent a letter dated 24 January 2020 (a Friday) to Brewing Dolphin with a formal transfer 
request  presumably received a few days later through the post. On 3 February 2020, 
Brewin Dolphin provided details of the stock held to the new manager. Ive seen evidence 
that Brewing Dolphin chased the new ISA manager for confirmation it could accept the 
transfer of stock. The new manager replied on 14 February 2020 for Mr Gs holdings and on 
18 February 2020 for Mrs Gs holdings. It confirmed there were some investments it couldnt 
accept, so those holdings would need to be sold and transferred as cash. From the 
information Ive seen, Mrs Gs ISA transfer was completed in just a over a month and Mr Gs 
transfer took slightly longer.  
In my view, the timescale for the transfers to complete were not completely out of kilter with 
expectations for an in-specie transfer involving a reasonable number of different holdings. Mr 
and Mrs G are unhappy the value of their portfolio fell during the transfer process. In order to 
uphold the complaint on this point, I would need to be satisfied that the losses they 
experienced were as a result of failings caused by Brewin Dolphin. But I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to say this was the case. Im conscious at the time they were seeking to 
transfer their ISAs, financial markets were experiencing volatility due to the global pandemic 
 and undoubtedly this was the major contributing factor to the fall in value. 
During any stocks and shares ISA transfer there a number of different parties involved. In 
this particular transfer there were multiple parties due to the different investments being 
transferred  with Brewin Dolphin being only one of them. I dont think it would be fair to hold 
Brewin Dolphin responsible for any actions taken by third parties also involved in completing 
the transfer.  
From what Ive seen, for the most part it acted on the instruction in a timely manner, chased 
the new manager and sent accurate information on the holdings. I havent seen compelling 
evidence that Brewin Dolphin were responsible for any significant delays in the transfer 
process. While most of the transfer was completed in a month, there were some issues 
which did delay the full transfer. The issues relate particularly to two stocks  one line of 
shares in a German company and a unit trust holding in Mr Gs ISA. From the information Ive seen, the issues with the shares appear to have been caused by a 
confusion around whether the new ISA manager could hold the shares under the name 
which Brewin Dolphin provided. I can see that Brewin Dolphin did provide the correct name 
to the new manager when it sent details of the holdings. I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Gs 
frustration as they sought an explanation on what was happening, and it wasnt obviously 
apparent what the problem was. The new manager also apologised to Mr and Mrs G for not 
previously confirming that it could accept the shares under a different name to that they were 
originally held. While clearly there was a hold up in transferring these shares, I havent found 
anything to suggest that Brewin Dolphin were to blame for this confusion and any delays as 
a result. So, I cant ask it to do anything in this respect. 
In respect of the unit trust holding that was delayed, Brewin Dolphin say this holding failed to 
transfer as quickly as it should have because the fund manager didnt receive the relevant 
transfer form. It says this wasnt apparent immediately and only after chasing the transfer 
was it discovered. This resulted in a new transfer form being sent and eventually the 
transaction completing  albeit several weeks later than it was expected. 
Ive looked at the available evidence to decide whether the delays in this transfer were as a 
result of failings by Brewin Dolphin. Although, it cant show evidence of it being sent, Brewin 
Dolphin say it faxed a transfer form to the unit trust fund manager on 21 February. It says its 
usual process is to chase after two weeks (so this would be the 6 March). But the new ISA 
provider contacted Brewin Dolphin on the 3 March to say the fund manager didnt have 
details of the transfer instruction. Brewing Dolphin responded the next day and said it would 
look into things that day. But it says it didnt actually chase the fund manager until the 11 
March. The new ISA manager contacted Brewing Dolphin on 14 March for confirmation a 
new transfer form had been sent. Brewin Dolphin responded on 16 March saying a new form 
would be printed and sent shortly. Brewin Dolphin told the new ISA manager it faxed the 
transfer form to the fund manager on 17 March. It has told us that the transfer was then 
actioned on the 19 March. 
Having reviewed this timeline and the evidence provided, I think Brewin Dolphin did cause 
delays that meant the transfer of this unit trust didnt happen as quickly as it should have. 
While its explained its usual process was to chase after two weeks, Brewing Dolphin was 
aware several days before that time was up that there was a problem. Despite this, it still 
didnt chase the fund manager until 11 March  which was more than a week after it was 
aware of an issue. And it then didnt send the replacement transfer form for a further week. 
Brewin Dolphin say the situation regarding the global pandemic meant it was working with 
small delays. But I can see it was responding to and sending emails during this period, so I 
think it could have chased and sent a new transfer form to the fund manager much sooner 
than it did. When it did send the replacement form, the transfer completed quite quickly after 
that. 
I accept issues can happen during a transfer process and in March 2020, the global 
pandemic was impacting many businesses operations. But the available evidence doesnt 
suggest Brewin Dolphin were acting as quickly as it could have. It was aware Mr and Mrs G 
were anxious about the time the transfer was taking both from correspondence it had with 
them and from information passed on from the new ISA manager. Mr and Mrs G were 
worried the funds were lost and were anxiously waiting and chasing this last holding to 
complete the transfer. So, I think that the delays caused by Brewin Dolphin did cause them 
material distress and inconvenience. For that reason, I think Brewin Dolphin should pay 
them some compensation to recognise this. I propose that Brewin Dolphin pay Mr and Mrs G 
£150. Mr and Mrs G responded to the provisional decision to say while disappointed that the 
settlement figure is so small, they welcomed that the decision recognised that Brewin 
Dolphin did make the process much more challenging.
Brewin Dolphin responded to my provisional findings. It acknowledged that I agreed that the 
substantial delays were not caused by Brewin Dolphin. But it didnt agree the complaint 
should be partly upheld against Brewin Dolphin for a delay in chasing for a document sent by 
another party. It acknowledged the distress caused to Mr and Mrs G, but said Brewin 
Dolphin followed the transfer process and has evidence to show the transfer form was faxed. 
It said sending another form could have further complicated the transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the further comments made by Brewin Dolphin, but Ive not found reason to 
change the outcome I set out in my provisional decision. While I understand that there was 
potential for confusion if multiple transfer forms were sent, I think there is sufficient evidence 
to say it should have chased the unit trust fund manager sooner  and by not doing so it 
caused a delay. Ive also noted Mr and Mrs Gs comments, which essentially accept the 
findings in my provisional decision. 
In summary, I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Gs disappointment with the transfer process  and 
frustration with having to chase for updates. But I can see that this wasnt a straightforward 
transfer to complete as there were multiple holdings that needed clarification before being 
transferred. I also acknowledge the concerns Mr and Mrs G had about the value of their 
portfolios falling during the period they were waiting for the transfer to complete. It is 
unfortunate that the transfer was taking place as at a time when markets were particularly 
volatile. But I dont think Brewin Dolphin can be held responsible for this. I have identified a 
delay caused by Brewin Dolphin and have decided Mr and Mrs G should be compensated 
for the distress and inconvenience this caused - so it should pay them £150. 
  
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and direct Brewin Dolphin Limited to pay Mr and Mrs G £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman