DRN-2092511
The complaint
Mr M complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited wrongly cancelled his 
motor insurance policy on the grounds that he hadnt disclosed some information to it.
What happened
Mr M bought the policy on 17 December 2019, on the same day he bought a new car. Mr M 
says he was told by the garage at the last minute that the cars insurance expired that day, 
so he had to find new insurance for it quickly. He and his partner completed an application 
on a comparison website. The details were passed to Watford and a policy was set up.
In January 2020 Mr Ms car was vandalised. He made a claim on the policy and was asked 
for details of his driving licence. A DVLA check showed that he had two endorsements on his 
record, one from 2018 (which he had declared) and an undeclared one from 2016. 
The 2016 offence had expired, but when he took the policy out in 2019, Mr M was asked to 
list any endorsements received in the last five years. Mr M said he made a genuine mistake 
whilst in a hurry to get the car insured. He later offered to pay the correct premium. But 
Watford  said had it known all the facts it wouldnt have offered him cover on any terms. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. He thought Watford had acted 
reasonably. Mr M didnt accept the investigators view. He referred to the poor feedback hed 
seen about the comparison website and other firms associated with Watford. He also 
pointed out that Watfords decision was likely to affect the premiums for the many other 
insurance policies he had. And he asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). It requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of the reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies if the misrepresentation is 
what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. To be a qualifying 
misrepresentation, the insurer must show that it would only have offered the policy on 
different terms  or not at all -  had the consumer not made the misrepresentation.
 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Whether a consumer has failed to take reasonable care depends on whether the consumer 
was asked a clear question. Watford has provided a copy of the question Mr M was asked 
on the comparison website when he applied for insurance. He was asked whether he had 
any endorsements within the previous five years. I think that was a clear question. Mr M only 
disclosed one endorsement, so as he had two, he gave the wrong answer to the question. 
I think it was reasonable for Watford to conclude that Mr M didnt take reasonable care when 
he made the misrepresentation. He knew about the other endorsement but didnt check his 
record at the time (or afterwards). Watford provided us with an extract from its underwriting 
criteria that shows it wouldnt have covered Mr M had it known about both endorsements.  
That means his misrepresentation is a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
In these circumstances, an insurer has the right to cancel or avoid the policy - and if it can 
show that the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, it can retain the premium as 
well. Watford hasnt said Mr M acted deliberately or recklessly in making the 
misrepresentation, and it has returned the premium to him. I think that was reasonable, as it 
appears that Mr M acted carelessly rather than deliberately or recklessly. 
Mr M has explained that he feels particularly aggrieved by what has happened for several 
reasons. He wouldnt have had to arrange the insurance in a rush if the garage that sold him 
the car hadnt misled him about the initial cover for the car. The undisclosed offence wouldnt 
have been on his record had the unknown person seen by the police speeding in Mr Ms car 
owned up to it. And the claim in 2020 was made due to vandalism by a third party.
I sympathise with Mr M given the circumstances that led to him being in his current position, 
and I appreciate that Watfords decision will have a significant impact on Mr Ms future 
premiums. But that doesnt mean its decision was wrong. In my opinion, Watford applied the 
guidance set out in CIDRA correctly to Mr Ms situation. 
Mr M has commented on the poor reviews hes seen about various firms connected to his 
complaint. He thinks Watford has a pattern of cancelling policies when it could have dealt 
with the situations leading to the cancellations better. We dont give weight to general 
reviews as we deal with the specifics of each situation. And as the investigator has pointed 
out, we arent the financial services industry regulator. We only look at the circumstances in 
each case we see and decide on its merits. If Mr M has general concerns about Watford (or 
any other financial business) its open to him to contact the Financial Conduct Authority. 
As I dont think Watford acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Mr Ms complaint.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
18 November 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman