DRN-2912260
The complaint
Mr L complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Insurance handled and 
settled a claim he made under his home insurance policy for damage to his carpet. He feels 
he was misled about how a matching sets claim would be settled.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr L took out a policy of household insurance with Privilege. Prior to 
incepting his policy, he contacted Privilege to ask how it would settle a claim in the event that 
a matching carpet sustained damage. He said, in response to his enquiry, Privilege informed 
him that it would replace matching carpets in other rooms, in addition to the damaged carpet, 
irrespective of the presence of any joining bars at doorways. And he said this led him to take 
out his policy with Privilege.
On 10 November 2020, Mr L contacted Privilege to explain that one of the carpets in his 
home had sustained damage. As this carpet matched the carpet in a number of other rooms 
on the same floor of his home, he asked Privilege to replace all the carpets.
Privilege agreed to replace the carpet in the room affected by the damage. But it declined to 
replace the matching carpets in the other rooms as they were separated by a joining bar. It 
stated that all carpets would have to be connected to each other to be covered under the 
matching set clause. 
Mr L disagreed with how Privilege was proposing to settle his claim. He thought it had made 
an error based of the information hed been provided with prior to taking out his policy. So, 
he complained.
When Privilege responded to Mr Ls complaint it accepted hed been misinformed about how 
a matching carpets claim would be settled. And it paid him £150 compensation to recognise 
that error. But Privilege maintained that it had correctly decided his claim because it said 
undamaged matching carpets separated from a damaged carpet by a joining bar arent 
covered under the matching sets clause. 
Being dissatisfied with Privileges response to his complaint, Mr L referred it to our service. 
Our investigator assessed this complaint and, while they empathised with Mr L, didnt 
recommend upholding it. They thought Privilege had acted reasonably, and in line with the 
policy terms and conditions, in declining to replace the matching carpets beyond the joining 
bar. And they were persuaded that the compensation Privilege had already paid adequately 
recognised the error it had made in misinforming Mr L about how it would settle a damaged 
carpet claim. Privilege accepted our investigators view of this complaint. But Mr L didnt. So, 
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of this complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy 
by this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think 
are the key issues. I can assure Mr L and Privilege that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Im sorry to learn of the difficulties Mr L experienced after he notified Privilege that he wanted 
to make a claim under his policy. Its clear from the information hes provided our service that 
hes unhappy with the way in which Privilege dealt with his claim. And I can see that he feels 
that he was misled about the extent of cover Privilege would provide prior to incepting his 
policy. 
This service is an informal dispute resolution service. When considering whats fair and 
reasonable, Im required to take into account a number of matters, which include relevant 
law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, the terms 
and conditions of any insurance policy and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the relevant time. Im not limited to the position a court might reach. 
And having considered all the available evidence, Ive reached the same overall conclusions 
as those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
The first part of Mr Ls complaint is about Privileges decision not to settle his claim for 
all carpets that matched the damaged carpet. So, Ill focus on that issue first.
I understand that Mr Ls undamaged carpets arent connected to the damaged carpet 
as one continuous strip. Theres a joining bar at the doorway that separates the 
carpets from one another. So, while the undamaged carpets may match the damaged 
carpet, theyre essentially separate pieces of carpet.
Privilege has stated that carpets can be covered under the matching sets clause of Mr 
Ls policy. But its also explained that the policy doesnt provide cover for the 
replacement of undamaged carpets where theyre separated from the damaged area 
by a joining bar at the doorway. Having seen a copy of Mr Ls insurance policy, Im 
satisfied that this approach is in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Under the terms of Mr Ls policy therefore, Privilege is only obliged to replace an 
undamaged carpet, in addition to a damaged carpet, if its part of a continuous piece. 
So, where carpets are separated by a joining bar in the doorway, the undamaged 
matching carpets beyond the joining bar arent covered by the matching sets clause. 
This policy term is typical of those our service usually sees in similar cases  we 
wouldnt expect an insurer to replace matching carpets separated by a joining bar if 
they were undamaged.
I appreciate that Mr L wants me to tell Privilege to replace all matching carpets based on the 
guidance he was given in early January 2020. But I cant tell Privilege to settle a claim that 
isnt covered by his policy. That wouldnt be fair and reasonable and, as Privilege applied the 
terms of Mr Ls policy in settling his claim, Im unable to conclude that its acted 
unreasonably here. It follows that Im not going to tell it to replace the matching carpets in 
the other rooms.
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Ls complaint which is about whether Privilege made a 
fair offer to compensate him for the error it made in providing incorrect information about the 
extent of cover he had.Its not in dispute that Privilege informed Mr L that he had cover for something he didnt 
have. Privilege accepts it made an error in that regard and it paid Mr L £150 compensation 
to recognise the trouble and upset its error caused. Its clear that Mr L doesnt think this sum 
adequately reflects his inconvenience and experience. Its my role to decide whether the 
compensation paid is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this dispute. 
When deciding what potential compensation to award I must take two things into account: 
financial loss as a result of any business error and non-financial loss, including 
inconvenience and upset. 
Ive carefully thought about the consequences of Privileges error for Mr L. He informed our 
investigator that he was induced into taking out an insurance policy with Privilege as a result 
of the assurance he received over the telephone about how a claim for matching carpets 
would be dealt with. He further stated that, prior to taking out his policy with Privilege, hed 
been quoted by another insurer who offered to cover matching carpets beyond the joining 
bar for a similar price. He therefore believes that hes been caused financial detriment as a 
result of taking a policy out with Privilege in preference to the other insurer.
Our investigator contacted the other insurer that Mr L was considering at the time he took 
out his policy with Privilege. They queried with that insurer how it would have dealt with the 
claim Mr L reported to Privilege. Ive had sight of the response our investigator received from 
the other insurer, which satisfies me that it would have settled Mr Ls claim in the same way 
that Privilege did. I therefore havent seen enough to persuade me that Mr L suffered 
financial loss as a result of taking an insurance policy with Privilege.
When considering awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the business 
actions have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, 
whether compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Its clear that Mr L was caused trouble and upset as a result of the error Privilege made. He 
was inconvenienced by what happened and I dont doubt he wouldve been extremely 
frustrated to learn that only the damaged carpet was covered under his policy. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that, once Privilege was aware of its error, it 
didnt delay or protract matters in investigating what happened here. Once it had concluded 
its investigation it acted promptly and correctly in accepting responsibility  it told Mr L it had 
misinformed him about the extent of his cover within a week of him reporting his claim. It 
also quickly explained why the undamaged matching carpets werent covered. 
Im satisfied that an award of compensation is appropriate to reflect the inconvenience Mr L 
experienced. But I also have to bear in mind the speed at which Privilege acted in taking 
responsibility for its error. 
The compensation that Privilege paid Mr L is towards the lower end of the range for the 
category that this service would describe as moderate. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
think thats a fair description of the difficulties Mr L had. I havent seen enough evidence to 
persuade me that a higher award is warranted here. And Im satisfied that amount already 
paid by Privilege is in line with our approach in similar scenarios  so I wont be ordering it to 
increase its offer.  
  
I appreciate that Mr L feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything hes said. But, in the overall circumstances, I dont think 
Privilege acted unfairly in settling Mr Ls carpet claim. And Im satisfied it acted reasonably in 
trying to resolve the error it made. Im therefore not going to ask Privilege to do anything further. This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Ls dispute with Privilege 
informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr L any further with this
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman