DRN-1726686
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain about the settlement Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has 
offered them for a claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs V got in touch with Lloyds to let it know about a possible escape of 
water claim. Lloyds appointed a contractor to visit Mr and Mrs Vs home. The contractor 
marked out the area it felt needed to be accessed to try and find the leak. 
Later on, in September 2019, Mr and Mrs V got in touch with Lloyds to let it know that their 
own contractor had carried out the trace and access works. They claimed for their 
contractors costs of around £5800. The policy limit for trace and access costs is £5000.
Lloyds didnt agree to pay the costs Mr and Mrs V had incurred. It felt the costs were 
excessive and some of the works had been unnecessary. It told Mr and Mrs V it needed a 
full breakdown from the plumber as to how these costs had been incurred. It offered Mr and 
Mrs V £1165.55 for the costs it wouldve incurred had its own contractor done the work.
Mr and Mrs V didnt accept Lloyds offer and they asked us to look into their complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Vs complaint should be upheld. He noted 
that while Mr and Mrs V had sent a report to Lloyds outlining the work the plumber had done; 
Mr V had written the report on the plumbers behalf. So the investigator didnt think this was 
enough evidence to show that all the works were necessary. 
He felt that because Mr and Mrs V had engaged their own contractor, theyd denied Lloyds 
contractor the opportunity to narrow down the location of the leak before carrying out 
invasive trace and access works. Overall, he felt it was fair for Lloyds to require a detailed 
breakdown and professional report from Mr and Mrs Vs contractor before it would consider 
paying any further costs.
Mr and Mrs V disagreed. They said they hadnt wanted to use Lloyds contractor because 
theyd been late and had been rude. They werent told they had to use Lloyds contractor to 
do the trace and access work. Their contractor had been able to do the work at a convenient 
time for Mr and Mrs V. Theyd used a builder to trace the leak and a plumber to fix it.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs V fairly. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Vs policy covers trace and access costs of up to £5000, for the reasonable 
costs of removing any part of the buildings necessary to find the source of a leak and make it 
good. Its clear Mr and Mrs V did have an underfloor leak at their home and that trace and 
access works were needed to find the source. So Lloyds did have some liability for the costs 
involved in tracing and accessing the leak.
When Mr and Mrs V let Lloyds know about the potential leak, it appointed its contractor to 
look into finding it. The contractor attended Mr and Mrs Vs home and used specialist 
equipment to narrow down the source of the leak. It marked out the areas it thought were 
most likely to be where the leak would be found. 
Ive seen a copy of the contractors report. This says that the testing showed high water 
levels near where the contractor had marked out a cross and excavation was needed. It also 
says that Mr and Mrs V wanted the contractor to return another time because they had 
underfloor heating and wanted to check things with Lloyds. 
Lloyds records indicate that the contractor tried to call Mr and Mrs V four times over the next 
two weeks to arrange a return visit. And that Mr and Mrs V had told it theyd be out of the 
country, so to call again. Mr and Mrs V went on to get their own contractor to find the leak 
and sent in an invoice, without letting Lloyds know about how they wanted to proceed. 
So I agree that Lloyds were denied the opportunity to carry out the works and decide exactly 
what was necessary. Its also possible Lloyds contractor couldve further narrowed down the 
location of the leak using specialist equipment. This couldve lessened the extent of the 
access works that were required.
Mr and Mrs V say Lloyds contractor was late and had been rude to them. Thats why they 
say they didnt want to use it to do the excavation works. I cant see that they complained 
about this to Lloyds though or let it know why they were unhappy with its contractor. As 
Lloyds hasnt had a chance to look into this issue, I cant fairly comment on it here. 
Lloyds agreed to consider Mr and Mrs Vs claim, despite them using their own contractor. 
This seems reasonable and appropriate. But the policy does say that Lloyds is entitled to 
see evidence to support a policyholders claim, including estimates and quotations. This is to 
ensure a policyholder can substantiate the things theyve claimed for.
In this case, Mr and Mrs V have provided a report from their contractor which explains the 
steps they carried out. But Mr and Mrs V have acknowledged that they wrote the report 
themselves, because they didnt think their contractor would be prepared to do so. Lloyds 
contractor believes that much of the work carried out was unnecessary  for example, wall 
tiles being taken off, when itd been established upfront that the leak was under the floor. 
And Mr and Mrs Vs found the leak 3-4cm from the cross Lloyds contractor had marked, 
which indicated Lloyds contractor had narrowed down the source of the leak.
Because Mr and Mrs V wrote the report themselves, I dont think this can be treated as 
expert evidence which explains why the contractor carried out the works they did, or a 
detailed breakdown of the costs Mr and Mrs V were charged. I think, given Lloyds concerns 
about the necessity of some of the access works that were carried out, that its reasonably 
entitled to a more detailed breakdown and report before it reconsiders its offer. 
Lloyds has provided me with a scope of works which show what its offer of settlement was 
based on. Its still prepared to pay this amount to Mr and Mrs V. I think, based on the 
evidence its been provided with so far, its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to settle the claim 
based on what it wouldve likely cost its own contractor to carry out the trace and access works. So its open to Mr and Mrs V to get in touch with Lloyds to accept its offer of £1165.55 
should they now wish to do so.
Its also open to Mr and Mrs V to obtain a detailed breakdown from their contractor of the 
costs they incurred and the rationale for the work that was carried out to send onto Lloyds to 
consider further. But based on all Ive seen, I think its fair for Lloyds to refuse to increase its 
offer of settlement without being provided with the information its requested.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Vs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman