DRN-2443937
The complaint
Mrs R says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2003. The policy was taken out at 
the same time as 
Mrs R applied for an Egg credit card. Mrs R thought the card and PPI had been taken out by 
post. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me. I apologise for the length of time its taken for Mrs Rs complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to
uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
 I can see from Canada Square Operations records that Mrs R applied on line for 
PPI. Ive seen a sample of the screens she wouldve completed to apply for PPI. 
The options to select or decline PPI were set out with equal prominence. Canada 
Square Operations records show that Mrs R selected the box to take out PPI. 
So, on balance, I think Canada Square Operations made it clear to Mrs R the 
PPI was optional and she agreed to take it out.
 Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R, so it didnt 
have to check if it was suitable for Mrs R.
 I agree its possible the information Canada Square Operations gave Mrs R 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Mrs R chose to take 
out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. So, I think it unlikely Mrs R wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think he 
would still have taken out the policy.
Mrs R said she was entitled to up to 12 months sick pay (six months at full pay 
and six months at half) so didnt need PPI. But, I dont think this made the policy 
obviously inappropriate. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits 
and allowed her to use these for other household expenses. Having her credit 
card payments covered may have been important to her, particularly when she 
was on half pay. Mrs R said her partner and her family couldve helped with her 
repayments if she wasnt working. I accept they may have wanted to, but help of 
this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time comes, so I havent placed 
any reliance on this. Mrs R said she had some savings; less than three months 
worth of savings. Overall, Mrs Rs other means dont lead me to the conclusion 
that more likely than not if shed been given more information about the costs 
and the benefits she wouldve decided not to take the policy out.
So, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to Mrs R.
But Canada Square Operations has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs R because it got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. Because 
Canada Square Operations didnt tell her, that was unfair. To put that right, 
Canada Square Operations basically paid Mrs R back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I 
think that offer is fair in this case. So I think Canada Square Operations has 
already compensated Mrs R fairly for the commission and profit share that was 
over 50% of her PPI premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint. I dont think the PPI policy 
was mis-sold  which means that Canda Square Operations Limited doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R. As Canada Square Operations Limited 
has already paid back any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman