DRN-2256817
The complaint
Miss C complains that Revolut wont refund a disputed transaction which occurred on her 
account. And theyve provided poor customer service. Shed like her money returned and 
compensation for this. 
What happened
Miss C has an account with Revolut. 
In September 2019 Miss C transferred £250 onto her Revolut card. On the 9 October 2019 
Miss C discovered that a fraudster had gained access to an account she has with another 
bank, Ill call L, and transferred an additional £2,900 to her Revolut account. She couldnt 
access her Revolut account now and was worried about the £3,150. 
Due to technical issues Revolut werent able to provide Miss C access to her account  and 
although they accepted fraud had occurred the bank didnt make arrangements to refund the 
£250. 
Miss C wasnt happy with Revoluts response to her fraud claim so complained to our 
service. She explained because of the banks poor response her holiday was negatively 
impacted and shed like compensation. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Cs complaint. And they concluded that Miss C didnt 
authorise the £250 transaction and was provided with poor customer service from Revolut. 
So he recommended that Miss C be refunded £250 plus 8% interest and £75 in 
compensation for the poor service provided.
 
Miss C didnt accept the view and queried how Revolut could have allowed the money to be 
transferred out when theyd spotted a different IP address had been used, why L  instead of 
Revolut - had to refund the £2,900 which led to 3 months loss of interest and overall how 
disappointed she was with the banks customer service. 
Our investigator reviewed Miss Cs comments  but didnt change his outcome. In summary 
he explained that he wouldnt have expected Revolut to block Miss Cs account just because 
a log in took place from a different IP address, it was Ls responsibility to refund the £2,900 
and he felt £75 was fair compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
The bank accepted our investigators opinion but advised they could only refund Miss C and 
pay the compensation through the Revolut app. 
Miss C didnt accept our investigators opinion, so its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. On reviewing Miss Cs complaint I made contact with both Miss C and the bank. 
And I explained that I felt the resolution offered by our investigator was fair.
In summary I explained that that I was satisfied Miss C didnt authorise the £250 transaction, 
therefore Revolut have a responsibility to refund this. And overall the customer service 
Revolut had offered, when attempting to address the fraud which occurred on Miss Cs 
account and allow Miss C re-access to her account, wasnt satisfactory. I further explained 
that I didnt think it was Revoluts responsibility to refund the £2,900 transferred in from 
Miss Cs account with L. And although I understand why Miss C was concerned fraud 
occurred on her account, I wouldnt necessarily have expected the bank to block her account 
when it identified a new IP address was used to access it. Overall I thought that £75 was fair 
compensation for the difficulties Miss C had suffered in contacting Revolut, getting her 
refund and accessing her account. 
Both parties accepted my recommendation, although Miss C also asked for Revolut to 
provide written evidence theyd closed her account. Ive seen evidence that Miss Cs Revolut 
has now been closed. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above I think Revolut should refund Miss C £250 plus 8% 
interest and £75 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Revolut to:
Pay Miss C within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of my final 
decision; plus
Pay 8 % interest from the date of loss to the date of refund1. 
Pay Miss C £75 for distress and inconvenience.
1 If Revolut is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send Miss C a tax deduction 
certificate so she can claim it back from HMRC is appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman