DRN-2050182
The complaint
Mr H complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) have unfairly declined a claim he 
made under his Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI) policy. He is also unhappy with the service 
he received. 
Where I refer to IPA, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
In April 2017 Mr H made a claim in relation to a dispute about his neighbours building work. 
At the time, Mr Hs LEI cover was provided by IPA. Whilst some assistance was provided, in 
the form of writing a letter, ultimately IPA declined the claim. A separate complaint to our 
service about that decision wasnt upheld. 
Mr H has had continuous cover for LEI throughout the time period relevant to this complaint. 
This includes at least two policies (with slightly different terms) that were both underwritten 
by IPA. 
Mr H entered into a party wall agreement with the neighbour. He felt his neighbour had 
caused damage to the party wall. Mr H used the dispute provisions available to him under 
the Party Wall Act and the surveyors involved made an award in his favour. 
Mr Hs neighbour challenged this and said he intended to appeal the award in the courts. In 
October 2019, Mr H made another claim to IPA. He wanted to use his LEI cover to help him 
with the dispute. 
IPA explained that they didnt think the claim was covered. They said the policy only 
provides cover to pursue a claim, not to defend a claim (nor an appeal). They asked Mr H for 
more information as they wanted to check whether cover for a property damage claim might 
be applicable. In doing so the claim handler made reference to a potential area of cover 
under Mr Hs more recent policy with IPA. 
After theyd received further information, IPA passed the matter to a panel solicitor to 
assess. The solicitor said that they believed this to be a continuation of Mr Hs previous 
claim from 2017. They also said that there was only cover for pursuit and not defence of a 
claim. 
Mr H was unhappy, he says the lack of clarity about whether or not his policy would assist 
meant that he lost out on the chance to appoint a private solicitor to assist him. He says a 
letter from IPA caused him to believe he would be covered. IPA didnt believe they needed to 
do anything further and the matter was ultimately referred to our service. 
One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary she 
concluded IPAs decision about the claim was fair. She also didnt think it was wrong for 
them to fully explore if another section of the policy might help. She didnt think that the 
service Mr H had received was poor and didnt recommend that IPA needed to do more. 
Mr H disagrees, he says if IPA were to compensate him £250 it would resolve his complaint. 
He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr H disagrees that his current claim is a continuation of his 2017 claim. IPA say the policy 
defines an insured incident as: The incident or the first of a series of incidents which may 
lead to a claim under this insurance. Only one insured incident shall be deemed to have 
arisen from all causes of action, incidents or events that are related by cause or time.
I dont think IPA acted unfairly when considering the claim about the party wall award and 
the alleged further damage to be linked to the same cause of action (that being the 
neighbours building work) and therefore part of the same claim. But for completeness, Ive 
looked at the policy wording of both Mr Hs IPA policy from 2017, along with his more recent 
IPA policy and neither provide cover to defend a claim in the way that he would like to. So, I 
dont think IPAs decision to treat matters as a continuation of the original claim (rather than 
a new claim) has made a difference to whether defence of a party wall award appeal is 
covered. 
The assistance Mr H was seeking was to defend his neighbours appeal against the party 
wall award. I appreciate Mr Hs point that the award was made with reference to damage to 
his property, and that his policy does cover pursuit of a claim relating to property damage. 
But the purpose of the hearing was to decide if his neighbours appeal against the party wall 
award should succeed or not. It wasnt a case of Mr H taking legal action to pursue his 
neighbour, and I dont think IPAs position on this was unfair or unreasonable. No policy will 
provide cover for every possible situation, and unfortunately for Mr H, defending a party wall 
award appeal isnt something his policy covers. 
Mr H has pointed out that his policy does have a section of cover for legal defence. Ive 
considered this, but the cover provided is either to defend certain circumstances in relation 
to the policyholder being an employee. Or to defend legal rights arising from a formal 
investigation by a trade association, professional or regulatory body. I agree with our 
investigator that neither of these are applicable to Mr H defending the party wall award 
appeal. 
Ive looked at an email IPA sent to Mr H on 13 November 2019. This makes very clear that 
there is no cover for defence of a property dispute. But it acknowledges that Mr H may wish 
to make a new claim for further damage and asks him for some more information. I think this 
was fair. Id expect an insurer to seek further clarity from their policy holder to make sure 
they understand the nature of the claim being made. IPA did this, they gave the answer they 
could in relation to defending the party wall award appeal, but also asked for further 
information in case there was another way the policy might be of assistance to Mr H.
Mr H wanted his own solicitor to be appointed, but IPA said that the policy only allowed for a 
panel solicitor until proceedings were imminent. At this stage, the purpose of the legal 
assessment was to see if the was a claim met the requirements of the policy  part of which includes confirming that an insured event had taken place. So I dont think it was unfair for 
IPA to wait until they knew whether the claim would be accepted before further discussing a 
non-panel solicitor. Mr H made submissions as to exceptional circumstances for why he 
believed he was entitled to use his own solicitor. But despite this, until the claim was 
accepted, I wouldnt expect IPA to agree to the costs of a non-panel solicitor in these 
circumstances. 
In December 2019 IPAs panel solicitor reported back and agreed that there was no cover 
under the policy. They agreed the policy only provided cover to pursue a claim, not for 
defence. IPA themselves arent legal experts, so I think its fair for them to rely on suitably 
qualified legal advice, unless it is very obviously wrong. This also confirmed what IPA 
themselves had initially concluded. The advice was from a solicitor, and I dont think it was 
obviously wrong. As such, I think it was fair for IPA to rely on this when making their decision 
about the claim. This claim decision and the reasons for this were explained to Mr H on 16 
December 2019. He was also told that if he provided more information, IPA would share this 
with the solicitor to see if it changed things. Or he could source a separate supportive legal 
opinion, in which case they would further consider the claim. I think this is fair.
Mr H also says that IPA implied he would be covered and that this was to his detriment as it 
left him insufficient time to arrange a private solicitor. Im satisfied the emails sent to Mr H 
cant reasonably be interpreted as saying cover was in place. The email uses the words 
potential and may in relation to the cover. As I said above, this was IPA exploring the 
options on Mr Hs behalf. I dont think that was unfair. Any decisions Mr H took whilst 
awaiting the result of the referral to a solicitor arent something IPA are responsible for.
I accept that IPA could have identified sooner than they did that Mr Hs claim was a 
continuation of his original claim. For a short period of time, the two claims continued in 
parallel. On 18 December 2019 IPA identified this and informed Mr H. But Mr Hs second 
claim was raised late in October 2019 and during November 2019 he submitted the same 
information to IPA in relation to both claims. In these circumstances I cant fairly say that 
IPAs failure to identify this sooner had an impact on Mr H. He would have been aware that 
he was corresponding on two claims. 
Overall, Im satisfied IPA handled the claim fairly. And I also dont think they provided 
particularly poor service  matters progressed in a timely manner. I appreciate Mr H was 
unhappy with a particular member of staff being involved. But decisions as to who is best 
placed to work on any particular claim is a decision for IPA. It isnt something Id seek to 
interfere with, unless there was evidence of unfairness  which I dont believe to be the case 
here. 
Mr H has suggested that if IPA were to compensate him £250, he would consider his 
complaint resolved. But Im not persuaded there is an objective basis upon which IPA ought 
to compensate Mr H. I appreciate any potential litigation will be a very stressful time, and 
that this is particularly the case when it relates to a persons home. 
But overall, Im satisfied IPAs decision that the policy doesnt provide cover to defend a 
party wall award appeal is fair. And whilst things didnt always go perfectly, Im not 
persuaded that IPA are responsible for unreasonable delays or poor service to the extent 
that the impact of this means a compensation award is appropriate or justified. 
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman