DRN-3856273
The complaint
Mr C complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) didnt settle his claim fairly after his car 
was declared a total loss.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr C made a claim on his motor insurance policy as the catalytic converter 
was unfortunately stolen from his car.
On the day his car was collected for inspection, Mr C noticed bodywork damage on its left 
side and said this was the first time hed seen it. So, he told esure the damage must have 
happened at the same time as the theft incident (although he thought this was unlikely) or at 
some point after, while he waited for his car to be collected.
In response, esure initially agreed to consider all the damage as part of the same claim. 
However, they later said this was a mistake and Mr C would need to raise a second claim, if 
he felt damage had taken place in a second incident. They also paid him £150 compensation 
to reflect the upset their initial incorrect advice may have caused him. Mr C decided against 
raising a second claim. 
An engineer then inspected Mr Cs car and based on the cost of replacing the catalytic 
converter, concluded it would be uneconomical to repair. It was therefore deemed a total 
loss and esure said they'd offer Mr C his cars market value. The engineer also noticed a 
significant amount of bodywork damage. This damage was in several different places and 
wasnt restricted to the left side of the car. The engineer concluded none of this damage 
related to the theft of the catalytic converter and therefore said it should be treated as pre-
existing.
esure then calculated a fair market value for Mr Cs car, by referring to three motor trade 
guides, and averaging the values they suggested totalling £4,853. However, they also 
calculated the cost of repairing what their engineer deemed to be pre-existing damage and 
said 50% of this cost would be deducted from the value. They said this was fair, as this 
damage wasnt caused as part of the theft claim, and if a separate incident had taken place, 
this would need to be considered separately. So, they told Mr C his car had been valued at 
£3,741.
Mr C didnt think this was fair. He said the base valuation should have been at least £5,000  
and no deduction for pre-existing damage should have been made. The damage to the left 
side of the car had already been highlighted to esure and the other damage was superficial. 
So, the valuation was unfair and needed to be increased. 
An investigator at this service then looked into the complaint. He concluded esure had 
offered Mr C a fair value for his car, and it was reasonable for them to have made a 
deduction for the pre-existing damage. Mr C didnt accept the investigators opinion. 
The complaint was then passed to me, and I asked Mr C some questions to better 
understand his position. In summary, he said he didnt see the benefit in raising a second 
claim as his car had already been declared a total loss. He also said esure should accept 
some responsibility for the bodywork damage as they should have collected his car sooner. 
It was also dark when he inspected his car following the theft incident, so all the damage 
could have happened at the same time, and he may have simply not seen it. Either way, he 
wasnt responsible for the damage, and he hadnt been treated fairly.  
So, Ive now reached a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has acknowledged it's unlikely the bodywork damage on the left side of his car 
happened at the same time as the theft incident. esures engineer also concluded this was 
the case, and on balance I agree. I say this as the damage to the bodywork doesnt appear 
to be consistent with a catalytic converter theft. This means, the damage either took place 
before the incident, or as Mr C has suggested while he was waiting for his car to be 
collected. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for esure to conclude, that both incidents would need to be 
considered as separate claims as they involve a different set of circumstances. I appreciate 
esure initially caused Mr C some confusion in relation to this issue as they said all the 
damage would be considered as part of the same claim. However, they later rectified this 
mistake and paid Mr C £150 compensation. So, Im satisfied they clarified their position, and 
gave Mr C the option of raising a second claim. I also think £150 compensation was a fair 
amount to reflect the impact of this error.
Mr C has said he doesnt think registering a second claim would be worthwhile as his car 
has already been declared a total loss. I appreciate his point of view, but I also wouldnt 
reasonably expect esure to investigate two separate incidents as part of the same claim. I 
would also like to stress that in reaching this decision, I havent considered what a fair 
outcome would be, if Mr C did decide to pursue a second claim. I've only decided if esure 
settled the existing one fairly and reasonably. 
As esure concluded Mr Cs car was a total loss, this meant they were required to offer him its 
market value. The policy terms and conditions define market value as follows:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car 
for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of 
the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, 
condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss.
Ive therefore carefully considered if esure applied this policy term fairly when they settled  
Mr Cs claim and provided a value for his car.
Assessing the value of a used car isnt an exact science. However, like most insurers this
service often finds the motor trade guides persuasive. This is because their valuations are
based on nationwide research and they show likely selling prices at the time of loss. The
guides also allow for the specifications of most cars to be taken into consideration including
any extras. This is particularly helpful, as factors such as the age and mileage of a car can
have a big impact on its value. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others,
we may think its reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the circumstances and on the
value of the car.I can see esure calculated a base value for Mr Cs car, by considering three valuations that 
were provided by the motor trade guides. They also attempted to get a fourth valuation, but 
the guide they consulted couldnt provide one. The three guides gave the following 
valuations: £4,740, £4,775, and £5,044. esure then concluded £4,853 was a fair market 
value for Mr Cs car, as it was the average value suggested by the guides. 
I've checked the three valuations esure relied on and can confirm they were all based on the 
correct details for Mr Cs car. Ive also checked a further guide and having done so, Im 
satisfied esures value is fair. As it falls within the range of values suggested by the guides, 
and Im satisfied none of them should reasonably be considered an outlier. 
Mr C has said the value should have been at least £5,000 based on his own research. 
However, as Im sure Mr C can appreciate, adverts state asking prices which often allow 
room for negotiation. So, Im satisfied that by relying on the motor trade guides, and valuing 
Mr Cs car at £4,853 esure offered Mr C a fair base valuation for his car.
I have carefully reviewed all the damage the engineer identified in his report, and I can see 
there are several different areas of damage throughout the cars bodywork. I dont think any 
of this damage is superficial or could reasonably be described as normal wear and tear. So, 
Im satisfied esure concluded reasonably that this damage impacted the cars market value.
I know Mr C feels strongly that esure shouldnt have taken the bodywork damage on the left 
side of his car into consideration. However, as this damage is unlikely to have been caused 
by the theft incident, I respectfully disagree. I appreciate some of the bodywork damage may 
have taken place after the incident, but as detailed above, Mr C was given the option of 
raising a second claim to explore this concern and decided against doing so. This means, I 
dont think esure acted unreasonably by treating all of the unrelated damage as pre-existing, 
for the purpose of reaching a fair valuation. 
Ive also carefully considered Mr Cs argument, that esure should take some responsibility 
for the damage, as they didnt collect his car straight away. I appreciate there was a delay, 
but Mr C hasnt been able to say when he thinks the second incident may have taken place. 
So, even if esure had collected his car sooner, it may not have made a difference. I also 
wouldnt reasonably expect an insurer to collect a car before they are ready to inspect it, as 
this could mean they incur storage fees. The exception to this, is if a car is stored in an 
unsafe location, and Im satisfied (based on what Mr C has told me) that wasnt the case 
here. So, while I can appreciate Mr Cs frustration that his car wasnt collected earlier, I dont 
agree this means esure should accept responsibility for the bodywork damage.
esure deducted £1,112 from the £4,853 base valuation. Im satisfied this amount was 
calculated fairly as the engineer concluded it would cost £2,223 to repair the damage and 
this figure was then divided in half. This approach is frequently used across the motor 
insurance industry, so I also think it was reasonable for esure to do so here. And £3,741 is 
therefore a fair market value for Mr Cs car.
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C. The circumstances are 
unfortunate, and I empathise with him. However, based on everything Ive considered, Im 
satisfied esure handled his claim fairly and I see no grounds for directing them to increase 
the settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman