DRN-3152352
The complaint
Mr S complains that Allianz Global Assistance (Allianz) has failed to make reasonable 
adjustments for him and that it hasnt clarified certain things when it communicates with him, 
or answered questions he has about his policy, as hes requested.
What happened
Mr S has Autism and ADHD. These conditions affect his everyday life in many ways. Among 
other things, they make it harder for him to communicate with others effectively and to 
understand meanings and behaviours completely. 
Mr S holds a home emergency policy with Allianz and a buildings and contents insurance 
policy with Halifax. The home emergency policy was sold to him by Halifax, acting as the 
broker, in 2020. 
In January 2021 he received home emergency renewal documents with Halifaxs logo on 
them, despite the fact that these were from Allianz. This caused some confusion as Mr S 
had understood that his home emergency cover was provided by Allianz. So he didnt know 
whether the renewal documents were in relation to the home emergency policy with Allianz 
or the buildings and contents insurance policy with Halifax. 
Mr S got in touch with Allianz to let it know he found the documents confusing. He asked 
Allianz to explain what each policy covered. And after a flood at his home he also wanted to 
know what the exclusions were under the policy, but says he hasnt been provided with any 
clarity about this. 
He suggested Allianz suspend the home emergency policy if it couldnt explain these things 
before the policy was due to renew in March 2021. But Allianz said it couldnt suspend the 
policy and instead, cancelled it.
Mr S complained to Allianz, saying that he hadnt wanted it to cancel the policy and the 
cancellation had caused him distress as he was without cover.
Allianz said in its response that it would be happy to answer any specific questions Mr S had 
about his home emergency cover but was unable to rewrite a policy document or to look into 
any concerns about Halifax as they operated independently. Unhappy with the response, 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and thought Allianz hadnt done enough to help 
Mr S. She said Allianz had failed to explain Mr Ss policies in a way he required it to, due to 
his conditions, and that it hadnt properly considered his vulnerabilities in the way it had 
communicated with him. Allianz didnt respond fully to our investigators assessment, so the 
complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
From everything Ive seen, it seems the main issue in this complaint is that Mr S simply 
wanted some help in better understanding his policies so that he could make an informed 
choice about whether the policies were right for him. And this help wasnt provided. 
Allianz has said it was happy to answer his questions, but I cant see that it did this in line 
with Mr Ss needs. For example, during a phone call on 12 February 2021, Mr S made it 
clear to Allianz that he didnt feel his communication needs were being met. He explained 
during this call that he had a small amount of support but this was limited, and also 
described how his condition affects him. 
Mr S also explained that when he phoned the numbers on his letters for help, he was told 
that the person he was speaking to couldnt help him. The adviser asks him during the call 
on 12 February whether he would like Allianz to put a vulnerable marker on his file. Mr S 
says that this would help, but in relation to the key issue about the confusion caused by the 
correspondence, the adviser says shell need to get someone to call him back as she cannot 
answer those questions. She takes his details and says she will try to get someone to 
contact him. However, no one calls him back and two days later, Mr S receives the 
cancellation letter.
On 18 February 2021, Mr S calls up again to explain the problem regarding the 
correspondence and how he doesnt understand some things about the policy. The adviser 
doesnt seem to engage with Mr S about his condition, although he speaks about this in 
detail, nor does the adviser ask how Mr S would like them to help him or communicate with 
him going forward, which is what I wouldve expected to see. Theres also some confusion 
caused when Mr S is told during this call that it wont be an actual cancellation and to see it 
as a suspension until he has made a decision with additional support from them. But a few 
months later, hes told Allianz cant suspend policies in this way, which is why it was 
cancelled. 
I think the adviser shouldve been clearer that the policy would indeed be cancelled, but that 
if he changed his mind and decided to go ahead with it after receiving the support he needed 
to understand things better, they would be able to reinstate the policy at his request. I can 
see that these interactions caused Mr S confusion.
Having listened to the phone calls Allianz has sent to us, and whilst I think some of the 
advisers Mr S spoke to showed considerable empathy and were helpful, I also agree with 
our investigator that there are times when advisers werent as helpful as I think they couldve 
been. For example, on 15 March 2021 Mr S describes his difficulties in detail and talks about 
how distressed hes been, mentioning that due to a lack of care he had an ambulance come 
out to him, and that recently hed felt like taking his own life. Whilst the adviser spends a 
considerable amount of time listening to Mr S, I dont think her response to what was clearly 
very difficult information for Mr S to share, showed suitable empathy, as she didnt address 
any of Mr Ss worries and instead said she wanted to try and move the call on.
Further, during a phone call on 24 March 2021, the adviser explains that all the information 
Mr S needs in the policy booklets. I dont consider this to be particularly helpful, due to the 
fact that Mr S had already explained his communication difficulties and the fact that the 
policy booklets are lengthy documents, which Mr S had already mentioned he found difficult 
to navigate.
Mr S has said the failure to make reasonable adjustments for him has resulted in distress and ongoing confusion. Hes told us and Allianz that hes constantly left extremely worried 
about the possibility of an emergency arising and having no cover, due to the ambiguity and 
lack of clarity in terms of what hes covered for and who he can contact in an emergency.
And Ive found Mr Ss statements in terms of how Allianzs actions have affected him to be 
compelling. So I agree with our investigator that the impact on Mr S of Allianzs actions and 
inaction has been significant, bearing in mind the way his disability affects him. Mr S requires 
considerable support, and a statement has been provided by his counsellor which explains 
how his conditions affect him, and how a lack of support can cause heightened anxiety. Im 
satisfied that the lack of assistance from Allianz in helping Mr S properly understand his 
policies and Allianzs repeated failure to find out more about Mr Ss needs and how it could 
communicate differently with him, has caused him worry and frustration.
It follows therefore, that Allianz should compensate Mr S for the distress and inconvenience 
hes suffered. And it should now take steps to help Mr S better understand his policy, even if 
the available policies have now changed. The FCAs guidance for firms on the fair treatment 
of vulnerable customers highlights that firms should put measures in place to prevent issues 
arising for vulnerable customers, and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think its done 
enough to show that it did this for Mr S, despite knowing he was a vulnerable customer as 
early as November 2020. 
It should now put in place the measures Ive outlined below, to help Mr S understand what 
his policy covers and does not cover, which business a particular piece of correspondence is 
from, and who he can contact in an emergency, in an effort to reduce the anxiety that has 
been brought about by the continued uncertainty for Mr S around these matters.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr S, Allianz must do the following:
When sending correspondence to Mr S, ensure that the branding or logo on the letter 
matches the business responsible for providing the cover that the letter is in relation 
to. If this isnt possible, as Allianz has suggested, then the correspondence must 
clearly set out, in the opening paragraph, which business the correspondence is from 
and which policy it is in relation to. This should be worded in a clear and 
unambiguous way and Allianz must apply this to all products and services it may 
write to Mr S about, irrespective of the branding used.
Send Mr S a list of important telephone numbers hell need to call in an emergency, 
explaining clearly which number is for which type of emergency. 
Provide a document for Mr S, setting out the key policy terms and any conditions and 
exclusions in a clear and unambiguous format. It should also provide Mr S with a 
telephone number to call if he has any questions about his policy. If Mr S has any 
questions, Allianz should respond to these in a timely manner, arranging contact in 
accordance with Mr Ss needs, to discuss his queries and provide further clarity.
Reinstate the policy as if it was never cancelled, if Mr S lets Allianz know he has 
chosen to go ahead with it.
Pay Mr S £500 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Allianz Global Assistance to put things right as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman