DRN-3597916
The complaint
Mr S complains Revolut Ltd unfairly blocked and removed funds from his account, and then 
closed the account.
What happened
Mr S held an account with Revolut. Revolut blocked his account to carry out a review and 
decided to return funds back to source. It subsequently closed the account. 
Mr S says the person who held the account the funds were sent back to didnt receive them. 
They were also a Revolut account holder and their account was already closed when the 
funds were sent.
An investigator at our service concluded Revolut didnt need to refund the funds it removed. 
They said:
Revolut acted in line with their legal and regulatory obligations by returning the funds 
back to source. It wasnt obliged to give its reasons to Mr S but based on the 
available information its decision was fair.
Revolut didnt need to ask for proof of entitlement from Mr S as it confirmed the 
nature of its review meant it didnt require this information.
Revolut was able to close his account.
Mr S responded and said the sender of the funds had also raised a complaint which wasnt 
responded to, so he couldnt get his funds back from them. He asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman, so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Revolut have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account 
is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know their customer and 
verify their sources of income.
Revolut will review accounts to comply with their responsibilities. And, its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to accounts to conduct a review - doing so helps prevent 
potential financial loss or other harm that might otherwise result. Revolut doesnt need to 
reveal why its reviewing an account, but I have considered its reasons and find they were 
legitimate and blocking the account was reasonable.
Mr S says Revolut failed to ask him for proof of entitlement to the funds. I have considered 
its actions and understand why no specific information was asked for based on how the 
review had progressed and its nature. I understand of course why Mr S found this frustrating, 
but Im not awarding him compensation on this point.
Revolut decided to remove the funds from Mr Ss account and return them to source. I have 
very carefully considered its reasons for taking this action. And, again I find it had sufficient 
grounds not to allow Mr S to access the funds. I find their decision was in line with their legal 
and regulatory obligations.
Mr S says the person who was sent the funds couldnt gain access to them. Whether this is 
the case or not, my role isnt to consider Revoluts actions in relation to a third party, and 
whether that person should have been given access so that Mr S could obtain the funds this 
way. Ultimately, I find Revolut do not need to refund Mr S the funds they removed from his 
account.
Revolut could also close Mr Ss account, and it was under no obligation to keep him as a 
customer. I find they closed the account fairly.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman