DRN-3637161
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that they were mis-sold a holiday club product and the loan used to 
pay for it. The loan was provided by First Holiday Finance Ltd (FHFL). Mr and Mrs D are 
represented by a claims management firm, which Ill call S.
What happened
In April 2011 Mr and Mrs D attended a presentation while on holiday. S has explained that 
they had already bought a trial membership of Club La Costa Holiday Club and that 
attendance was a condition of their trial membership. Following the presentation, Mr and Mrs 
D agreed to upgrade to full membership. They paid for the membership by way of a joint 
loan from FHFL. The loan was repaid in February 2013.
In or around July 2021 S, on behalf of Mr and Mrs D, complained to FHFL. In September 
2021, it referred their complaint to this service. In summary, S said:
FHFL had not properly assessed whether the loan was affordable before agreeing to it. 
The nature of the holiday product had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs D. 
The underlying contract was void as a matter of Spanish law. It followed that the loan 
agreement was also void. 
There had been breaches of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and of the Unfair Terms in 
Consumer Credit Regulations 1999.
The loan agreement created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint but did not recommend that it be upheld. 
She concluded that we did not have power to consider the complaint about affordability. 
Other elements of the complaint were likely to be outside the relevant time limits in the 
Limitation Act 1980. The investigator noted too that the underlying contract was governed by 
English, not Spanish, law.
S did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. In 
doing so, it said that there had been breaches of English timeshare law.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The contract terms
The parties to the underlying agreement in this case were (1) Mr and Mrs D and (2) Club La 
Costa Leisure Limited (CLC). The contractual documents included:
an Acquisition Agreement;
Terms and Conditions;
a Members Declaration; and
a Standard Information Form  said by CLC to be in the form required by The 
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 
Timeshare Regulations).
The Acquisition Agreement recorded that Mr and Mrs D had bought 800 points rights. The 
description of the product in the Standard Information Form said:
The Vacation Club is a multi-resort holiday Points system which allows Members to acquire 
their Points each year to use and enjoy the various Resorts held within the Vacation Club 
from time to time. Club La Costa Vacation Club Limited is a company limited by guarantee, 
number 164002, registered in Scotland at Companies House. Vacation Club uses a grading 
system based on Points in order to value the different Vacation Club accommodation The 
Points entitlement each year may be used or saved (or Points borrowed from future years) to 
increase the flexibility of choice and destination, all subject to being current with all charges 
and other monies owing and to the Articles, Rules and Regulations. The degree of flexibility 
is determined by the number of Points held and the Points Tables which apply to the 
destination in question.
The Terms and Conditions included:
This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with English law and shall be subject to 
the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts 
It appears therefore that Ss primary submission  that Mr and Mrs Ds contract with CLC 
was void as a matter of Spanish law  was based on at least two false premises. Those 
were that the contract was for floating timeshare weeks and that it was governed by Spanish 
law. In fact, it was for points that could be exchanged for accommodation and was governed 
by English law.
The contract was therefore covered by the Timeshare Regulations. I am not persuaded that 
there was any breach of them or that, even if I were so persuaded, that would now give rise 
to a claim against FHFL. 
FHFL commented that, having based its argument on alleged breaches of Spanish 
timeshare law, S should not be entitled to change those arguments following the 
investigators assessment to something completely different  namely, a breach of UK 
timeshare regulations. I understand the point that is being made here, but a complainant is 
not prevented from changing their argument as a complaint progresses. That is in keeping 
with this services role as an informal means of dispute resolution, although in some cases it 
might affect a complainants credibility.    
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
S says that FHFL has not shown that it assessed the affordability or suitability of the loan. 
Given the time that has passed since it was taken out, I do not find that particularly 
surprising, although it is clear that Mr and Mrs D provided information about their respective 
incomes. S has not however provided anything to show that the loan was not affordable. 
I note that S has referred to the rules and guidance in CONC. Since the loan pre-dates the 
FCAs regulation of consumer credit activities, however, CONC did not apply at the time. I 
would nevertheless expect lenders to have assessed the affordability of loans in line with 
guidance issued by, for example, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), the Lending Standards 
Board and the Finance and Leasing Association.  Be that as it may, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it 
is referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of 
the date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had 
cause for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that FHFL carried out (or did 
not carry out) in April 2011. I think Mr and Mrs D would have known fairly soon after that 
date if they were having difficulty making repayments. It follows that this part of the complaint 
should have been referred to this service by no later than 12 April 2017  six years from the 
date Mr and Mrs D took the loan out. Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.  
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. CLC is 
named as the credit intermediary, so I have considered what the position might be if Mr and 
Mrs D were to make a claim against it. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs D into the 
contract for the April 2011 upgrade of their holiday club membership were made on or before 
12 April 2011; since they were already members, its possible that Mr and Mrs D relied on 
what they were told or their own experiences even before that. They did not however raise 
any complaint with FHFL until July 2021, more than ten years later. I think it very likely 
therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for misrepresentation was made outside 
the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
S says that the time limit is extended where the claimant is unaware of the facts giving rise 
to a claim. It says that Mr and Mrs D did not know about regulatory breaches until S 
explained the position to them.
I do not accept that the time limits in the Limitation Act are generally extended in the way S 
says. Knowledge is generally only relevant in negligence cases where damage does not 
become apparent until later  for example, where building work is defective. Mr and Mrs Ds 
claim against CLC is not a claim in negligence. 
It is also the case that a breach of regulations on the part of CLC would not necessarily give 
rise to a claim against it, and certainly not a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. Be that as it may, CLC has said  and I accept  that Mr and Mrs D consulted lawyers about 
the possibility of making a claim no later than September 2016, when they executed a power 
of attorney so that they could instruct lawyers in Spain. They were aware generally therefore 
that they might have a claim but did not  for whatever reason  bring it at that time.   
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the claim under 
section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would say that any claims 
against CLC are time-barred, I think it was. 
I note as well that the contract with CLC included an entire agreement clause, saying that 
the written agreement included everything the parties had agreed and everything on which 
Mr and Mrs D had relied. Given my findings about time limits, however, I dont need to 
discuss the likely effect of that provision.  
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. The loan in this case was repaid in 
February 2013, so it would appear that this is the point at which the relationship ended. It 
follows that a court would be likely to conclude that any claim under section 140A is now out 
of time and that FHFLs response to this part of the complaint was reasonable. In any event, 
Ss arguments on this point are, for the reasons I have explained, based on a 
misunderstanding of the nature of the club membership and of the applicable law.
Conclusions 
In summary, therefore: 
In my view the complaint about the credit assessment was brought outside our own time 
limits and I have no power to consider it. 
The underlying contract was subject to English law and was not void.
FHFL acted reasonably in concluding that claims section 56 nor section 75 were likely 
to be out of time under the relevant provisions of the Limitation Act.
I do not believe there are any grounds on which I can properly say that the loan created 
an unfair relationship between Mr and Mrs D and FHFL.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require First Holiday Finance Limited to 
do anything more to resolve Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman