DRN-4438799
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) collected his annual premium
despite him cancelling the renewal, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms motor insurance policy was administered by Sainsburys. He says he cancelled the
auto-renewal using its online portal. He did this on 3 November 2022 prior to the renewal
date of 21 November. He received confirmation via the portal that his policy wouldnt renew.
As well as an email advising his auto-renewal subscription had been cancelled.
Mr M says Sainsburys took £738.47 from his bank account on 16 November 2022. He says
hed already arranged alternative cover at this point. He called Sainsburys to complain and
asked for an explanation why it still held his card payment details. Mr M also requested a full
refund plus the interest charged by his credit card company and asked for compensation.
In its complaint response Sainsburys says Mr M cancelled his auto-renewal in good time. It
accepts his policy shouldnt have been renewed. However, it says Mr M chose to continue
his insurance with Sainsburys when he called to discuss this. It says if he wants to cancel
the policy it will waive all its fees. It asks that Mr M provides the schedule from his new
policy, so its able to request a backdated refund from his insurer. Sainsburys offered Mr M
£50 in recognition of the upset hed been caused.
Mr M didnt think Sainsburys had done enough to put things right. So, he referred the matter
to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought the compensation
offered was fair. She says when Mr M called Sainsburys he was asked if he wanted to
cancel his policy. This happened on two occasions and in response to both offers he said
no.
Our investigator says its fair that Sainsburys requests a full refund from Mr Ms insurer on
provision of his current policy schedule. But she didnt think it needed to do anymore.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Let me explain.
There is no dispute that Mr M cancelled his auto-renewal. He gave sufficient time to allow
this to be processed before the renewal took place. This means his policy shouldnt have
renewed. Based on this I think its fair that Sainsburys should provide a full refund of the
payment it took.
Ive thought about Sainsburys comments that Mr M was asked if he wanted to cancel the
policy and he said he didnt. Ive listened to two call recordings it provided from 22 November
2022. This is from when Mr M called to complain about the payment being taken.
In the first call the agent asks Mr M if he wants her to cancel the renewal before she logs his
complaint. Mr M says no. He says hed already cancelled the renewal on 3 November 2022
and removed his car details from the portal.
In the second call another agent asks Mr M if he wants the renewal to be cancelled. Mr M
says, no, its all part of the complaint he also says that he cancelled everything off. Later in
the same call the agent repeats the question. Mr M says, I dont think that makes a
difference he says he wants his complaint to go through and to be provided with the
reference number.
Its clear Mr M didnt want his policy to renew. I dont think he needs to prove to Sainsburys
that he arranged alternative cover to receive a refund. It accepts he cancelled the renewal.
The annual premium was only taken because of its error.
I understand the point Mr M was making when he spoke to Sainsburys agents. Hed already
cancelled the renewal and wanted this considered as part of his complaint.
However, the cancellation couldve been processed on 22 November 2022. A refund could
then have been provided. This means Mr M could have avoided all or most of the interest
charges raised by his credit card company. There may have been a charge for time on cover
and early cancellation fees. These charges couldve been considered within his complaint.
But it wouldve made sense to agree to cancel the renewal and use the refund to pay off his
credit card. Because Mr M didnt agree to this, I dont think its reasonable to ask Sainsburys
to pay his interest charges.
I can see that Mr M made a subject access request to Sainsburys, with his initial complaint.
In his submission to our service in April 2023 he says this hadnt been responded to.
Sainsburys has since confirmed that a response was provided on 23 April 2023, after Mr M
contacted our service. Its not clear why it took so long to respond. A response is expected
under the General Data Protection Regulations within one month.
Ive thought about the impact all of this had on Mr M. He was frustrated by Sainsburys
failure to act on his renewal cancellation. He had to make contact to highlight its mistake and
to raise a complaint, which caused him inconvenience. But I think the matter couldve largely
been resolved had he agreed to cancel the policy on 22 November 2022. A full refund of the
premium it took should be provided by Sainsburys. But I think its offer of £50 compensation
fairly acknowledges the impact its mistake had here.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Sainsburys Bank PLC should:
refund Mr Ms renewal premium in full.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr M responded to say he called four times when he contacted Sainsburys to complain 
about the payment it took. He says he made a Subject Access Request, but these calls werent provided to him. During the calls I referred to in my provisional decision, Mr M says 
he was frustrated and upset and couldnt understand why he would need to cancel 
something hed already cancelled using Sainsburys portal. He says his calls were handled 
poorly and some were disconnected. Mr M explains that he may have inadvertently said no, 
about the policy cancellation, but he says this is because hed already mentioned cancelling 
the policy on 3 November 2022.  
Mr M says Sainsburys subsequently refused to provide a refund unless he supplied 
evidence hed obtained alternative cover. He says it shouldve cancelled the policy in light of 
the instructions he provided originally. Mr M says it has taken around a year to reach this 
point, and requests that Sainsburys pays him the interest from his credit card plus 
compensation. He says its his responsibility to ensure his vehicle is covered, not 
Sainsburys. 
Sainsburys responded to say the policy couldve easily been cancelled when Mr M called, as 
he was within his cooling off period. But it says he didnt give it permission to do so. The 
business says the policy then ran for almost the full term before being cancelled, as a result 
of contact from our service. Sainsburys says Mr M couldve cancelled at any point prior to 
this. It says it wouldnt usually take instructions to cancel from a third-party due to the serious 
implications this could have. But it made an exception here in an attempt to resolve matters. 
Sainsburys says it couldnt have cancelled the policy without being instructed to do this. It 
says that as Mr M requested for his cover to continue, it allowed it to do so. As Mr M left his 
cover to run for over nine months Sainsburys says it seems unreasonable to allow him to 
benefit from that cover at no cost.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the comments Mr M makes about the standard of call handling. And I note 
what he says about having told Sainsburys agent that hed already cancelled the policy on 3 
November 2022. This was the crux of his complaint. The indication being that he neednt 
provide further instructions to cancel the policy. 
In my provisional decision I said it was clear that Mr M had given instructions for his policy 
not to renew. This was done well before the renewal date. Sainsburys shouldve acted on 
this instruction  but it didnt. It was entirely at fault for Mr Ms premium being collected in 
error. I note what it says about Mr M requesting for his cover to continue. But I dont think he 
did request this. What he did was refer to the action hed taken to cancel the renewal. 
Sainsburys already had Mr Ms instructions to cancel the policy when he called to complain. 
It was responsible for the policy renewing in error and therefore solely responsible for 
providing a refund. I dont think that the cooling off period Sainsburys refers to is relevant. 
Similarly, it wasnt for Mr M to provide evidence that alternative cover had been sought. 
Sainsburys had been given notice not to renew the policy and it shouldve acted on this.  
In its final complaint response Sainsburys says that if Mr M provides his new policy schedule 
it can request a backdate of his policy premium. My understanding is that Sainsburys 
intended requesting a refund from Mr Ms insurer. I can understand that it wanted to avoid 
incurring costs. But it was at fault, not the insurer. Mr M instructed for his renewal not to go 
ahead. Sainsburys didnt follow his instructions, which caused a payment to be taken. It is 
responsible for refunding this payment to Mr M, not the insurer. I acknowledge what Sainsburys says about not being able to cancel without the customers 
permission. But Mr M had acted to stop the auto-renewal by using its online portal as he was 
entitled to do. Sainsburys then acted to provide him with a policy he didnt want and had 
explicitly instructed it not to arrange. 
In my provisional decision I said I could understand why Mr M responded in the way he did 
when he spoke to Sainsburys agents. In his response to my provisional decision, he says he 
was frustrated and upset at this time and may have inadvertently said no about the policy 
cancellation. But this was because hed already mentioned that hed cancelled the renewal 
on 3 November 2022 well before the new policy was set up. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think Mr M couldve acted to mitigate the interest 
charges he incurred, had he agreed to cancel the policy. I think Sainsburys is entirely 
responsible for refunding Mr Ms premium, but he couldve accommodated its request to 
confirm his cancellation. This wouldve meant a refund was provided sooner, avoiding the 
interest charges on his credit card. So, I wont ask it to pay these costs. 
I also think Sainsburys offer of £50 compensation was fair for the inconvenience it caused 
Mr M when he had to make contact to request a refund. Having considered Mr Ms further 
comments, Im not persuaded to add to this amount.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. Sainsburys Bank PLC should:
refund Mr Ms renewal premium in full.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman