DRN-1724523
The complaint
Miss A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund money she lost when she 
fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the scam occurred as follows.
In June 2019 Miss A received an email from who she thought was the managing director of 
her employer.  The email asked Miss A to purchase some gift cards for clients. But unknown 
to Miss A at the time, the emails were from a scammer impersonating her boss.
Miss A has said internally there were cases where gift cards would be sent out to clients and 
that she was certain she was acting on behalf of her managing director. Believing the emails 
to be genuine and under pressure to carry out the work shed been asked to do, she went 
ahead and purchased some gift cards.
On 10 June 2019 Miss A visited a well-known supermarket and purchased £600.00 worth of 
Amazon vouchers using her NatWest debit card, she made the purchases by way of two 
transactions, one for £100.00 and another for £500.00.  After Miss A had purchased the 
vouchers, she was asked to scratch the cards and provide the scammer with the unique 
voucher codes  she was also asked to provide copies of her receipts, so she could be       
reimbursed.
After Miss A had passed over the unique voucher codes, the scammer asked Miss A to go 
back and buy more vouchers. Still thinking she was communicating with her boss, Miss A 
went ahead and purchased further vouchers, using a credit card she holds with a different 
provider  again she was asked to provide the unique codes for these vouchers.
The scam came to light the following day when Miss A spoke with her managing director and 
it became apparent it wasnt them who had asked Miss A to buy the vouchers. Miss A has 
said she contacted NatWest and asked for the transactions to be cancelled because they 
were still pending, but shes said it refused.
Miss A complained to NatWest as she was unhappy it wouldnt refund the money she lost 
and that it had offered no help.  Miss A also mentioned to NatWest about a reimbursement 
scheme that had been put into place. NatWest issued its final response on 7 July 2019  it 
said it couldnt be held liable for the loss Miss A had incurred and her transactions were not 
covered under new legislation.  While NatWest said it thought it had done all it could, as a 
gesture of goodwill and to help Miss A mitigate her loss, it credited £300 back to her 
account.
Miss A then brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt think NatWest could have done anything to prevent the scam - 
he didnt consider the transactions Miss A made were particularly out of the ordinary, or so 
unusual that they should have raised NatWests suspicions. And he didnt think NatWest 
missed an opportunity to identify the payments could potentially have been in relation to a 
scam. Our investigator said he was glad Miss A had part of her loss refunded, but this was 
more than he could recommend NatWest do. 
Miss A didnt accept our investigators view, she said she was sensible with how she 
operated her account and such payments dont usually appear on her account. Because 
Miss A disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss A, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that her money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about NatWests actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transactions to 
be made from Miss As account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to 
try and recover the money.  
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Miss As complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for Miss A, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
NatWest should reimburse her with the remaining £300 she has unfortunately lost to the 
fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
- the law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare duty); and
- regulated firms like NatWest are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6); and
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps to:
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something alsorecognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers
from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Miss A when she purchased £600.00 worth of Amazon vouchers, and passed the 
voucher codes to a scammer and when she reported the fraud, or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
Miss A has accepted she authorised the transfer of £600.00 herself. Because of this, 
NatWest had an obligation to follow her instruction. But there are some situations in which it 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as 
Ive explained. I consider that as a matter of good practice NatWest shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
So, Ive first thought about whether the payments Miss A made were out of character and 
unusual. Having reviewed Miss As statements for the six months leading up to the scam, I 
dont think the payments were so unusual or suspicious in comparison to Miss As normal 
account activity that it ought to have alerted NatWest that Miss A may have been at risk of 
financial harm. Miss A had made several other payments and transfers for amounts in 
excess of £500 over a period of six months  so payments of £100 and £500 werent 
particularly out of character or unusual. So, I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably in not 
making enquiries about the transactions before processing them. 
As Miss A had purchased goods, by way of Amazon vouchers, and then straight away 
passed the codes on, there was no opportunity for NatWest to try and recover the money, 
once Miss A had reported the scam. 
I understand Miss A has mentioned a reimbursement model. As our investigator has 
explained, I think what Miss A is referring to is The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM 
code).  The CRM code was introduced in May 2019, but it doesnt cover card payments  so 
the CRM code is not something I can consider when looking at this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss A has said about her transactions still being pending 
when she contacted NatWest. NatWest is unable to cancel pending transactions as these 
have been promised to be paid to the merchant  and in this case Miss A has received the 
goods purchased, but sadly been tricked into passing them on to a scammer. Transactions 
will usually show as pending until they are fully processed, which can take a few days  this 
is not uncommon. 
I am sorry that Miss A has lost out, and I appreciate this is a lot of money for her to have lost. 
I also understand the whole experience was very frustrating and upsetting for her. I can see 
NatWest has credited her with £300.00 as a gesture of goodwill. In the circumstances it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to order NatWest to refund Miss A any of the money 
she has lost, so it follows I cant ask it to do any more than it has done. My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman