DRN-3939022
The complaint
Mr K complains that he received unsuitable advice by Legal & General to transfer benefits 
from his defined benefit (DB) pension into a personal pension in 1993.
ReAssure Limited took over the book of business from Legal & General in 2019 and is now 
responsible to answer this complaint. Ill refer to ReAssure in my decision for ease of 
reading, even if Legal & General was the firm acting at the time. 
What happened
Mr K was advised to transfer his DB pension into a personal pension in 1993.
In 1994, the regulator established an industry-wide review of particular pension business 
which included advice to transfer out of a DB pension between April 1988 and June 1994. 
(Pension Review). 
Mr K wrote to ReAssure in 1998 informing them of a change of address and that he was 
looking for some pension advice as he had recently changed employer. In the same letter he 
asked ReAssure to confirm that he was not mis-sold the personal pension when he 
transferred in 1993.
ReAssure considered the advice he was given in 1993 and sent Mr K an outcome of their 
review in July 1998. The letter set out that a loss calculation had been carried out in line with 
the Pension Review guidance. The benefits of his current pension had been compared with 
the current value of his DB pension. The calculations showed he had not suffered a financial 
loss. 
In 2020, Mr K complained about the advice he received in 1993 and the benefits he had lost 
as a result. ReAssure responded to say they had reviewed the advice he had been given 
during the Pension Review and the calculations at the time had shown he had suffered no 
loss. As the Pension Review was designed as one-off exercise, they wouldnt review the 
advice again.
The complaint was referred to us and one of our investigators explained that the complaint 
had been made too late. He said Mr K had complained more than six years after the advice 
was given. And his letter in 1998 showed that he was reasonably aware he had cause for 
complaint at that point which is longer than three years before he made his complaint in 
2020.
He also noted that even if we could consider the complaint, given that the advice had been 
reviewed already during the Pension Review and loss calculations had been done at the 
time, he wouldnt have asked ReAssure to redo them now.
Mr K, through his representatives, disagreed with the investigator, both on his view with 
regards to time limits and the principle that theres no obligation for ReAssure to do fresh 
calculations if his complaint was upheld.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
I previously issued a provisional decision in which I explained why the complaint was made 
within the regulators time limits. The complaint was made more than six years after Mr K 
was advised to transfer his pension. However, I said overall I hadnt been persuaded that Mr 
K ought to have reasonably been aware he had cause for complaint more than three years 
before he complained to ReAssure.
ReAssure hasnt commented further on this, so I see no reason to change my view on this 
and my decision is I can consider the merits of Mr Ks complaint.
Merits of Mr Ks complaint
In my provisional decision I decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I said:
ReAssure reviewed Mr Ks advice in 1998 and did a loss calculation. Its accepted that 
unsuitable advice was given. So there is no need for me to consider this again.
ReAssures loss calculation in 1998 showed that Mr K had not suffered any financial loss by 
transferring his pension. However, its obvious now that he is financially worse off than if he 
had remained in his DB scheme. The dispute here is whether a new calculation, in line with 
the current guidance set out by the regulator in their Finalised Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers (FG17/9) should be carried 
out. 
I agree with the investigator here that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask ReAssure to 
do a new calculation. During the Pension Review the regulator provided firms with clear 
instructions and specific assumptions they needed to use for their calculations including 
ones for future investment returns and annuity rates. 
Unfortunately, in hindsight, market have not performed in line with what the regulator 
assumed they would be over 20 years ago. This is why it isnt unusual that there is a 
discrepancy between calculations during the Pension Review which  just like calculations 
nowadays- rely on certain assumptions and the actual losses someone might have suffered 
many years later.
This doesnt mean that the calculations at the time were incorrect. Firms carrying out the 
reviews had to work in line with a strict framework and methodology that had to be used and 
their actions were subject to various internal compliance checks and quality assurance and 
scrutiny by the regulator at the time. 
Ive also seen ReAssures calculation from 1998 as well as the transfer details which were 
provided by the DB scheme in 1993. As far as I can see Mr Ks personal details are correct 
and the DB benefits used in the calculations match the ones sent out in the DB schemes 
benefit statement.Theres nothing to suggest that the calculation in 1998 were incorrect and the Pension 
Review was a one-off exercise to compensate customers where a loss was established and 
draw a line under the matter for both parties. 
I have sympathy for Mr Ks situation and the difference in retirement benefits he now faces. 
However, theres no obligation for ReAssure to do new calculations now using updated 
guidance and I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask ReAssure to do this. Based 
on what Ive seen they did what was expected of them during the Pension Review which 
reasonably settled the matter at the time.
ReAssure didnt provide further comments. Mr K provided further comments. In summary he 
said:
He was approached by the adviser in 1999 and it wasnt him who was proactively 
looking to transfer away from his DB pension. He was lied to and pressured to 
transfer and feels he was conned and didnt know all the facts. He feels the adviser 
was only driven by commission and he should be enjoying a comfortable retirement 
now. He says the adviser subsequently wanted to transfer another of his employers 
pension which shows how much pressure he was put under. It was only due to his ill 
health he didnt do that second transfer. 
With regards to the Pension review he was sent a lengthy questionnaire which he 
was unable to complete due to severe mental illness. He accepts ReAssure would 
have had basic information about his previous employment and his pension fund. 
However, he fails to see how a full review could have been undertaken without a 
more detailed input from him.
I understand Mr K feels strongly about having been misadvised and treated unfairly by the 
adviser. However, its been accepted that unsuitable advice was given at the time. So this 
isnt in dispute.
The question here is whether ReAssure treated Mr K fairly when they reviewed the advice 
during the Pension Review.
Like I said in my provisional decision, from what Ive seen they compared Mr Ks DB pension 
value at the time with his personal pension and found he had not suffered a financial loss. 
Most of the information needed for the calculation could have been obtained from the DB 
scheme and his pension provider and ReAssure would have had access to Mr Ks personal 
details from their advice files. Much of the information on Pension review questionnaires was 
to establish circumstances at the time of the advice to establish whether unsuitable advice 
was given and a loss assessment was necessary. And in Mr Ks case loss calculations were 
carried out in any event. So I dont think the lack of the questionnaire likely disadvantaged 
Mr K.
As I said previously, I have full sympathy for Mr Ks situation and that his personal pension 
will provide him with likely lower benefits than his DB scheme. However, from what Ive seen 
Mr Ks advice to transfer was reviewed in line with regulators guidance during the Pension 
Review which was meant to draw a line under the matter for all parties. And so I wont ask 
ReAssure to redo the calculations again in line with current market assumptions.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman