DRN-3614480
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the way in which Sainsburys Bank Plc handled her claim after 
holiday accommodation she paid for with the banks credit card was not of a satisfactory 
standard.  
What happened
In March 2021 Mrs F booked holiday accommodation through a website which Ill refer to as 
C. C is one of the brand names used by a larger group of holiday companies. Mrs F paid  
the full price of £595 (including the booking fee) using her Sainsburys Bank credit card. 
When she took the holiday, Mrs F was not happy with the standard of the accommodation. 
She has said that the general standard of cleanliness was not what she expected. More 
specifically, the door to the cottage could not be locked, bathroom fittings did not function 
properly, the kitchen sink was cracked, and some furniture was broken. 
Mrs F contacted C, which, she says, promised a refund. When that was not forthcoming, 
however, she contacted Sainsburys Bank. 
The bank made a chargeback request, but that was not successful. And it declined to 
consider a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 because, it said, C had 
not been the supplier of the holiday cottage  it had taken the booking and passed the 
payment on. Sainsburys Bank did acknowledge that it had used the wrong credit card 
number in its correspondence, for which it offered Mrs F £30 in compensation. 
Mrs F did not accept the banks offer and referred the matter to this service. During the 
course of the investigators consideration of the case, Mrs F told him that she had received a 
full refund from C.
Our investigator issued an initial assessment, in which he said he thought that the bank had 
acted fairly. It was unable to pursue a chargeback claim any further than it did, and the 
investigator agreed too that the relationship of the bank, C, and the owner of the cottage 
meant that section 75 did not apply. 
Mrs F asked that an ombudsman review the case and issue a formal decision.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F has confirmed that she has received a full refund of £595 from C. So, even if I were to 
conclude that the bank was liable to her for the condition of the holiday property, I would 
have to take that into account in deciding an appropriate level of compensation. 
Sainsburys Bank did not of course supply Mrs F with holiday accommodation. But, where a 
customer pays for goods or services with a credit card, the card issuer might be liable  
along with the provider of those goods or services. 
I will address in turn the circumstances in which a card provider might be liable, and explain 
why I do not believe the bank is liable here. 
Chargeback 
Chargeback is a means by which certain card payment disputes can be resolved. It is run by 
the card schemes (in this case Mastercard) and can be used where, for example, a payment 
has not been authorised, there has been a duplicate payment, or where goods or services 
have not been provided or are not as described.
There is no legal or regulatory requirement on a card issuer to make a chargeback request, 
but we generally take the view that they should do so where theres a reasonable prospect of 
success. 
In this case, Sainsburys Bank submitted a chargeback request, but it wasnt successful. The 
bank took the view that, since the services which Mrs F had bought had been supplied 
(albeit she says they were not satisfactory), taking the chargeback request to arbitration was 
unlikely to succeed. 
It is not for me to say whether that assessment was correct. I do believe however that it was 
a reasonable view to take, given the services had been provided. I am satisfied therefore 
that the banks approach was fair and reasonable.
I note that the chargeback documents provided were largely illegible. However, that seems 
to me to be a reason that supports the banks decision not to take the case to arbitration. 
There was nothing new on which the bank could have sought to persuade Mastercard to 
reach a different conclusion. And, even if arbitration had been successful, the most Mrs F 
would have received was a full refund  which has now been made.    
Section 75
The effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that, subject to certain conditions, 
an individual who has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier 
has a like claim against the provider of credit used to finance the contract. The conditions 
include that the credit is provided under pre-existing arrangements or in anticipation of 
arrangements between the supplier and the provider of the credit. 
The arrangements under which a supplier is able to take credit card payments are generally 
sufficient to meet that condition of section 75(1). In this case, the credit card payment was 
made to C. I must therefore consider whether Mrs Fs claims about the holiday 
accommodation amount to claims for breach of contract or misrepresentation against C. In 
my view, they do not. The booking conditions included:
We are delighted to act as a booking agent for the owner with whom your accommodation is 
booked.   The terms made clear that C did not provide the accommodation; the owner did, and C acted 
as their agent in taking the booking. Any claim Mrs F had for breach of contract or for 
misrepresentation were, therefore, against the owner. 
Whilst the word arrangements in the Consumer Credit Act is wide enough to cover the link 
between credit card providers and, through the card schemes, businesses which accept 
credit card payments, it does not necessarily cover agency relationships such as that 
between C and the owner of the accommodation. I do not believe there were any 
arrangements in this case between the property owner and the bank under which Mrs F paid 
for the accommodation with her credit card. The relevant arrangements were between the 
bank and C.     
Even if I were to take a different view on that point, however, it does not appear to me that 
Mrs F would be entitled to a full refund. A successful claim for breach of contract in this case 
would be more likely to entitle her to a reduction in the price. In the circumstances, it would 
not be fair to require the bank to make any further payment to Mrs F. 
I note what Mrs F has said about the time taken to obtain a refund. That was largely down to 
C, however, not the bank. I believe the bank handled matters fairly in all the circumstances.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Sainsburys Bank Plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mrs Fs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman