DRN-1915849
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a claim 
under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs G took out a pet insurance policy with Red Sands in December 2018. In February 2019, 
the dog was diagnosed with Atopic Dermatitis, and so Mrs G made a claim.
Red Sands said the dogs medical notes showed it had been treated for two skin conditions 
during the waiting period in December 2018, and that if Ms G had disclosed this when she 
took out the policy, it would have applied an exclusion for all skin conditions. 
It explained the policy terms and conditions set out that where the pet showed any clinical 
signs or had an accident or illness; or was diagnosed with a condition during the 14 day 
waiting period or prior to the commencement date, it had the right to apply an exclusion in 
respect of this accident, injury, illness or condition. Consequently, it excluded cover on all 
claims with respect to allergies of any cause with effect from 10 December 2018 and cover 
on all claims with respect to skin conditions with effect from 10 December 2018. It said 
Dermatitis would fall under the skin exclusion, therefore the claim was excluded.
When challenged by Mrs G that the 2019 skin complaint was totally different from the one 
with which the dog was diagnosed in 2018, and had developed well outside of the waiting 
period, Red Sands maintained the condition being claimed for had begun in December 2018 
and that as this was within the waiting period, it was excluded from cover. It said that, 
regardless of whether the December 2018 complaint was due to a different condition, the 
same exclusion for skin conditions would have been placed from the start of the policy, and 
the claim would still have been declined. It said Dermatitis was recorded as present in the 
medical notes dated in December 2018 and fell within the waiting period.
In its final response, Red Sands explained that when Mrs G took out the policy, shed  been 
required to tick a box confirming she accepted Red Sands reserved the right to apply 
exclusions to the policy in respect of any conditions that it subsequently learnt were pre-
existing or existing at the time she took out the policy, or which occurred in the waiting 
period. It also stated the terms and conditions were clear that 'any claim or costs for or 
relating to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an accident, injury or illness that first showed 
clinical signs at any time before the commencement date of the policy or within 14 days of 
the commencement date is excluded from cover.
It accepted there was insufficient evidence that the dog had suffered with allergies before the 
start of the policy or within the first 14 days, so it removed the allergy exclusion. But it said 
the exclusion relating to general skin conditions would remain because the claim for 
Demodex fell within the waiting period. As the Atopic Dermatitis would fall under this 
exclusion, the claim had been correctly declined. 
Mrs G complained to this service. She accepted the treatment received in December 2018 
wouldnt be covered by the policy because it had occurred during the waiting period. But she argued that condition was different to the condition for which the dog was treated in 
February, which was allergy related.  She said she believed Red Sands had classed the two 
conditions as the same thing and therefore deemed the initial consultation as having taken 
place before the end of the waiting period.  
She said she didnt feel it was fair for Red Sands to exclude all skin conditions following the 
diagnosis of Demodex. And she explained that in the medical notes for the December 2018 
consultation, the area where the dogs harness had rubbed was described as a dermatitis 
but argued this is a generic term used to describe any anomaly to the skin and wasnt linked 
to the Atopic Dermatitis with which the dog was subsequently diagnosed.
Red Sands maintained that as the dog was treated for a skin condition within the waiting 
period, the correct exclusion was placed on the policy. It also maintained the Atopic 
Dermatitis was a pre-existing condition which was treated between the 21 December 2018 
and 21 March 2019, and therefore correctly declined. And it said that even if there were two 
separate conditions, the declinature was correct as the Atopic Dermatitis fell under the 
exclusion.
Our investigator noted the vet had said the December and February conditions were 
unrelated and that Red Sands had accepted this, concluding it was therefore unreasonable 
for it to have declined the claim on the basis the Atopic Dermatitis was pre-existing. He didnt 
think the addition of the exclusion relating to general skin conditions was fair, because he 
didnt think Mrs G had withheld any information when she took out the policy. He thought 
Red Sands would have been entitled to include an exclusion relating specifically to 
Demodex, but the claim for Atopic Dermatitis wouldnt be covered by this exclusion. So, he 
said the complaint should be upheld and recommended Red Sands should settle the claim. 
He also recommended Red Sands should remove the exclusion for all skin conditions and 
pay Mrs G £100 compensation. 
Red Sands has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Its explained that 
the exclusion is in line with its underwriting criteria for Demodex, which excludes cover on all 
claims with respect to skin conditions. As the Demodex first showed clinical signs within the 
waiting period, the exclusion was placed correctly and the claim was correctly declined.
Mrs Gs said shes since seen another vet who has confirmed the skin condition for which 
the dog first received treatment in February 2019 is totally unrelated to conditions that 
presented in December 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy excludes cover for any claim or costs for or relating to a pre-existing condition(s) 
or for an accident, injury or illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the 
commencement date of the policy or within fourteen days of the commencement date. This 
term could have been fairly applied to the treatment the dog received in December 2018, but 
it would only apply to the treatment the dog received in February 2019 if it was shown to be 
linked to the earlier conditions.
The medical notes show that in December 2018 the dog was diagnosed with Dermatitis 
caused by the harness rubbing on its skin. This was fully resolved without the need for any 
medication. At the same consultation, the dog presented with crusting lesions at the top of its 
head, and hair loss. It was diagnosed with a skin condition called Demodex, which was 
caused by a parasitic infection. This was treated with medication and resolved fully. Im satisfied these conditions were unrelated to each other, and theres no evidence that they 
were related to or caused by an allergy. 
In February 2019, the dog was diagnosed with Atopic Dermatitis having presented with 
itching on its nose, ears and under its front legs.  Based on the fact there were different 
symptoms and treatments, and the vets comment that the clinical signs in December 2018 
resolved with treatment and the dog developed different signs in February 2019 it is 
apparent that the two skin problems are different, Im satisfied that neither of the December 
2018 conditions was linked to the Atopic Dermatitis. Consequently, I dont accept the Atopic 
Dermatitis was pre-existing and, consequently the claim couldnt fairly be excluded on the 
basis of it having been pre-existing or having shown clinical signs within the waiting period.
The policy stated if your pet first showed any clinical signs; or had an accident, injury or an 
illness; or was diagnosed with a condition within the first 14 days or prior to the 
commencement date, we reserve the right to apply an exclusion to your policy in respect of 
this clinical sign, accident, injury, illness or condition. Red Sands has argued that if Ms G 
had disclosed the treatment the dog received in December 2018, it would have applied an 
exclusion for all skin conditions, as per its underwriting guidelines. 
Im satisfied the policy permitted Red Sands to exclude either of the conditions for which the 
dog was seen in December 2018. But this exclusion wouldnt apply to the Atopic Dermatitis, 
and so it wouldnt affect the current claim.  
But it would only have been able to fairly exclude all skin conditions based on the Demodex 
diagnosis if it had known about it when it offered the policy, or if it could show Mrs G had 
made a misrepresentation when she took out the policy. But Mrs G didnt know about the 
Demodex or the Dermatitis when she took out the policy, and so there was no way she could 
have disclosed it. And the fact it occurred within the waiting period doesnt mean its now fair 
for Red Sands to retrospectively exclude claims for all skin conditions, having already 
agreed the terms and conditions of the policy with Mrs G. 
In conclusion, I dont think it was fair for Red Sands to have excluded all skin conditions and, 
consequently, I dont accept its decision to decline the claim was fair or reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Because of this, I think Red Sands should settle the claim. It should also 
remove the exclusion and pay Mrs G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she suffered as a result of its poor handling of the claim.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and direct Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
 - settle the claim. This is to include a payment of 8% simple interest* calculated from the 
date of the claim. 
 - remove the exclusion from the policy.
 - pay Mrs G £100 compensation. The compensation is to be paid within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited Mrs G accepts my final 
decision (if she does). If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the compensation 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to 
take off tax from this interest, they must give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax 
theyve taken off if she asks for one. She may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman