DRN-2279799
The complaint
Miss H complains that Chetwood Financial Limited trading as LiveLend (LiveLend) 
incorrectly reported late payment markers on her credit file.
What happened
Miss H took out a loan with LiveLend in May 2018 and set up a direct debit to make 
payments from her bank account. Shortly after this she needed to change her bank account 
due to some fraudulent activity on it. She contacted LiveLend to update them with her new 
bank account details and set up a new direct debit but was unable to do this and was told 
that she would need to make payments manually by debit card each month.
She says she wasnt aware that these payments needed to be made on the exact date that 
the payment was due otherwise it would be recorded as an overpayment or it may be 
recorded as a late payment. 
Miss H says that her credit file is showing 11 or 12 missed payments, and while she 
acknowledges that she missed a few of these, she says the others are showing when shed 
made the payment earlier than the payment due date, which she says is unfair as she was 
only making manual payments as LiveLend were unable to set up a new direct debit. Miss H 
would like LiveLend to remove the late payment markers.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that she 
didnt think the information recorded on Miss Hs credit file was incorrect. Miss H didnt agree 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and for the same 
reasons.
I can see there were some initial issues with payments between December 2018 and 
February 2019  however LiveLend agree to rectify these and not to record any late 
payment markers on Miss Hs credit file. Ive seen correspondence showing that at that 
point, it also reminded her that repayments needed to be made on the day the repayment 
was due.
Miss H missed further repayments in June and July 2019. She made her contractual 
repayment in August 2019 and an additional amount to repay some of the arrears on the 
account. The next payment LiveLend received was in November 2019  and it was received 
the day before her contractual repayment was due. The next payment after that appears to 
have been made in March 2020. By this time there were significant arrears on the account 
and Miss H was behind on her contractual repayments.
All credit reference agencies report accounts slightly differently and provide different views of 
the same account data. LiveLend has explained that arrears are reported as missed 
payments by the credit reference agency Miss H has used  and Ive seen a screenshot of 
Miss Hs credit file which shows this is likely to be the case.
As Ive explained above, Miss Hs account was in arrears from June 2019 onwards and the 
missed payments indicate this, rather than that Miss H didnt make a payment to her account 
that month. This is because she is still a payment behind on her contractual repayments. 
The data relating to whether any payments have been received may be visible in the 
monthly account balance.
So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think LiveLend has made a mistake in the way 
its reporting Miss Hs account and seems to be providing the credit reference agencies with 
a true and accurate reflection of the account as I would expect. As Miss H hasnt evidenced 
that LiveLend has made a mistake, I wont be asking it to change any of the entries on her 
credit file.
Miss H has also raised concerns that she was unable to set up a direct debit for her 
payments and that this was the reason she was unable to make repayments on time. I can 
see that LiveLend has considered this and looked at whether repayments were made around 
the time Miss Hs contractual payments but hasnt found any that would change the 
information recorded on her credit file if the payment had been applied on the contractual 
payment date, as even if that was the case, it appears the account still would have been in 
arrears.
I can also see that LiveLend was clear with Miss H that it couldnt update her direct debit 
details for the first six months but offered to send payment reminders. In her online chat with 
LiveLend, Miss H offered to continue making payments from the account she had set the 
first direct debit up from. And later it seems LiveLend asked Miss H to provide further 
information about the issues she was encountering so it could assist her, but it doesnt seem 
Miss H did this. So I cant agree that LiveLend should have done anything differently or that 
it could have been expected to do anything further in regard to changing or setting up a new 
direct debit instruction.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman