DRN-3967734
The complaint
Mr C complains about poor service from Santander UK Plc when he changed his name. He 
asks that it actions the name change and pays compensation for his time at his hourly rate.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr C asked Santander to change his name after his marriage. He provided a 
certified copy of his marriage certificate, which Santander copied and returned. However, the 
name change wasnt completed until November 2022. Mr C says he spent two to three hours 
on hold when he called Santander and the person he spoke to was unhelpful. Mr C says 
Santander lost its copy of his marriage certificate, which is a data breach.
Our investigator said Santander had now updated Mr Cs name in its records and theres no 
evidence it lost Mr Cs marriage certificate. Our investigator said the £300 Santander paid for 
the inconvenience and upset caused was fair. She said the ombudsman service doesnt 
usually award compensation on the basis of the customers hourly rate. 
Mr C didnt agree, and asked why this service feels his time has no value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has updated Mr Cs name in its records. It says no evidence was lost, and an 
investigation by ICO reached the same conclusion. 
Santander received evidence for Mr Cs change of name on 25 July 2022. It says it should 
complete name changes within seven working days. So Mr Cs name should have been 
updated by 3 August 2022. Mr C contacted Santander on 10 August 2022 as his name 
hadnt been updated. He raised a complaint.
Santander wrote to Mr C in September 2022 saying his name had been updated across all 
its systems. This wasnt right. Mr Cs name was updated on one account on 11 August 2022, 
but not all of his accounts. This meant Mr C had to contact Santander again.
Mr Cs name wasnt updated on all of his accounts with Santander until November 2022. 
When we award compensation we consider the impact of the error  here the delay in 
updating Mr Cs name  on the customer. We dont usually award compensation on the 
basis of a complainants usual business or professional hourly rate. Thats not because we 
think a complainants time has no value. But basing compensation on a persons business or 
professional hourly rate could suggest one persons free time is worth more than another 
persons free time. And it might not reflect the true impact of the error on the complainant.
Mr C can charge his customers for his professional or business expertise at an hourly rate. 
But Mr C wasnt providing a business or professional service to Santander. And he hasnt 
provided evidence that contacting Santander meant he was unable to carry out his usual 
work or lost out on business income. I dont think, based on the available evidence, that 
Mr C suffered a financial loss.
Ive no doubt though that this matter did cause Mr C worry and inconvenience and I think its 
right that Santander offered compensation. Mr C contacted Santander in early August 2022 
when his name hadnt been updated, and he had to contact it again when it still hadnt 
updated his name correctly. Mr C says he spent a long time on hold when he called as 
Santanders phone lines were busy. And Mr C was concerned that the delays were due to 
Santander losing its copy of his marriage certificate  although Im glad to hear this wasnt 
the case. Santander says the delays were due to human error. Taking all of this into 
account, I think £300 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the 
worry, upset and inconvenience caused to Mr C.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I think Santander UK Plc 
has done enough to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman