DRN-2539837
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Santander UK Plcs decision to close his account following a monetary 
gift from one of his late family members.
What happened
In November 2018, Mr A had a cheque paid into his account for around £50,000. Due to the 
large amount, this was flagged by Santanders security team and they inhibited the account 
while they investigated things.
Mr A explained to Santander at the time, that the money was paid by one of his family 
members as a gift. Mr A explained the purpose of the gift was to purchase a property. 
Santander asked Mr A to provide further evidence and Mr A supplied his family members 
bank statements. Santander didnt accept the bank statements as proof  they said the 
statement didnt show the cheque transaction. Mr A provided another statement.
Later in November 2018, Santander made the decision to end their banking relationship with 
Mr A. They gave him 30 days notice under the terms of the account and said the money for 
the cheque will need to be returned to the sending bank once theyd received an indemnity.
In March 2019, Mr A was still without the money and his account. He explained to Santander 
that his family members bank wasnt treating the transaction as fraudulent and so, he asked 
for the money to be made available. Santander refused. 
M A brought his complaint to our service. Since bringing the complaint, Mr As family 
member sadly passed away. In November 2020, Santander told our service that theyd 
received an indemnity from the third-party bank and the money was returned in July 2020. 
The investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Santander were 
entitled to do what they had as they have legal and statutory obligations they must follow. 
And she was satisfied that once theyd received the indemnity from the third-party bank, they 
returned the money.  
Mr A remained unhappy. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking Santander to do anything differently. I know this will come 
as a great disappointment to Mr A. And Im sorry to hear of the difficult time hes had with 
this situation overall, and to hear of the passing of his family member. Ive explained the 
reasons for my decision below.
Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied Santander was 
complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they reviewed and subsequently 
closed Mr As account. 
Mr A received a large payment into his account, so Id expect this to flag with Santander. 
Banks are required to ensure their customers money is protected and they have protective 
fraudulent measures in place. Im not able to share the specific details of Santanders 
processes with Mr A  but Im satisfied that the payment was flagged for review for the 
appropriate reasons.
When carrying out a review, its important Santander are fully satisfied of all details of the 
transaction before releasing any money. I appreciate Mr A supplied Santander with a copy of 
his late family members statement  but, based on the evidence Ive seen, it didnt hold any 
details of the cheque transaction in question and therefore I cant fairly say they should have 
released the money on this basis. I recognise Mr A says he went into branch and a further 
statement was supplied  but neither Santander or Mr A have any evidence of this and 
therefore I cant reasonably take it into account.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers  and I can see Santander 
made the commercial decision to withdraw Mr As banking facilities. Im pleased to see 
Santander gave Mr A 30 days notice and having reviewed the terms of the account Im 
satisfied they acted appropriately and were fair to do this. I appreciate Santander hasnt 
shared any information with Mr A about why they closed his account  but theyre not 
obliged to. I would however, like to reassure Mr A that based on the evidence Ive seen, the 
circumstances of this complaint and the terms and conditions of the account, Im satisfied 
Santander were fair in their actions. This service wont generally intervene in a banks 
commercial discretion. Santander appropriately reviewed Mr As account and then exercised 
their right to no longer offer him banking facilities. I've seen nothing to suggest that theyve 
made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently.
I recognise Mr A and his late family member was without the money for a long time and Ive 
no doubt how stressful and worrying this would have been for Mr A. Ive considered the 
actions of Santander and I dont consider they could have done anything differently. They 
actively approached the third-party bank and asked for an indemnity  but they didnt receive 
one. And they couldnt give the money to Mr A because they werent satisfied from the 
evidence theyd received that he was rightfully entitled to the money. Ive seen that when the 
third-party bank did raise an indemnity in July 2020, Santander returned it on the same day. 
So while I appreciate the lengthy time this took to resolve  I cant hold Santander 
responsible.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr A feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt how 
difficult this overall situation has been for him  especially due to his family members 
passing. But I can only uphold Mr As complaint if I think Santander have acted unfairly  
and I dont think they have. Im sorry I cant share any more details with Mr A but I hope my 
review has reassured him that Im satisfied Santander have acted reasonably in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And therefore, I wont be asking them to do anything to put 
things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman