DRN-3410132
The complaint
Mr R complains AWP P&C SA (AWP) caused further damage to his property following a 
claim against his home emergency insurance. 
What happened
Mr R reported water was coming through his ceiling and hallway on 19 March 2021, so he 
contacted AWP to raise a claim. He says directly above where the damage was being 
caused was the bathroom. 
An engineer attended and Mr R says they didnt assess the bathroom upstairs. Rather, they 
thought there was a blockage, and had tried to unblock it from the ground level using a high-
pressured water jet. Mr R says further damage was caused to his property because of this. 
AWP say the engineer attempted to unblock the pipe using the jet, and the pan connector 
behind the toilet had become detached, which was likely due to the toilet being plunged 
before their arrival. The engineer said the pan connector was likely damaged and required a 
replacement. The engineer then left the premises. 
AWP say they offered a reattendance. Mr R, however, says the engineer left as they werent 
making any profit from the job. He also says the engineer requested he flushed the toilet 
despite being aware the pan connector was detached, and this caused further damage. 
The following day, Mr R appointed his own engineer to carry out a repair. He says they 
found the water damage to have been caused due to the pan connector not being connected 
when the toilet was flushed. And they were able to resolve the issues by reconnecting this to 
the pipework. 
Mr R contacted AWP to complain. He thinks their engineer caused further, unnecessary 
damage to his property by using a high-pressured jet to unblock the pipe before 
reconnecting the pan connector. And as a result, foul water had caused damage, which he 
then had to clean up the following day and make a home insurance claim. He was also 
concerned about the welfare of his family and two young children. 
AWP responded to the complaint and offered £150 compensation for the way things were 
handled. They said, however, Mr R had reported that damage had already been caused to 
his property before their engineer arrived, so they didnt agree to cover the repair costs. 
Mr R remained unhappy and approached our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She said she didnt doubt Mr Rs testimony regarding what happened; however, she didnt 
think there was persuasive evidence that demonstrated further damage had been caused by 
AWP. She said Mr R reported damage had already been caused before AWPs involvement, 
and without evidence to determine whether further damage was caused, she wasnt able to 
recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide, and the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to AWPs visit, Mr R noticed water in the hallway, which was coming through the ceiling 
and down the walls. Directly above this area was the bathroom. Neither party disputes water 
damage had already occurred prior to AWPs engineer attending. 
Mr R says AWPs engineer caused further damage when jetting water up a pipe on the 
ground level which in turn resulted in further water entering his property. He also says the 
engineer asked him to flush the toilet several times during the visit, which caused further 
damage. 
Mr R contacted his own engineer to attend the following day who was able to reconnect the 
pan connector, which resolved the issue. Mr R provided this report, which confirms the 
same, but what it doesnt determine, is whether any further damage was caused to his 
property by AWPs engineer. So, whilst this confirms the cause of the issue and how it was 
resolved, it doesnt persuade me to agree AWPs engineer caused further damage to Mr Rs 
property. 
As a result of the damage, Mr R contacted his home insurer to report a claim. Mr R also 
provided us with a report from a representative of his home insurance provider. In this report, 
it explains in detail Mr Rs version of events which I dont doubt. However, within this report, 
it also doesnt provide an expert opinion on whether further damage was caused by AWP  
following the initial report of damage occurring by Mr R on 19 March 2021. 
Given what Mr R reported to AWP when making the claim, on balance, I find it more likely 
than not Mr R would have contacted his home insurance provider to submit a claim given 
damage was already occurring. 
I understand why Mr R strongly feels the engineer caused further damage. And I dont doubt 
his testimony. However, given damage was already reported prior to AWPs visit, without 
strong supporting evidence  such as before and after photos for example  its difficult to 
determine the level of damage already apparent, and whether further damage was caused 
by AWP because of the actions of their engineer. 
AWP says the engineer left Mr Rs property as they didnt have a part available and a 
reattendance was required. Whereas, Mr R says the engineer was told to leave by their 
manager given the time they had been at his property, and they werent making any money. 
Again, I dont doubt Mr Rs testimony, but without being party to the conversation, Im unable 
to determine what was specifically said given conflicting information has been presented. Mr 
R paid to have the issues resolved at his property which I understand was reimbursed by 
AWP. There were also some other service issues and Mr R was left chasing for updates 
during the time AWP were contacting their engineers for further comments and information. 
AWP paid Mr R £150 compensation in respect of the level of service received which I find is 
fair, reasonable, and proportionate. 
Overall, whilst I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr R, I havent been 
persuaded by the evidence available to me, that I could reasonably conclude further damage 
 in addition to what was reported on 19 March 2021  was caused by AWP. Im very sorry 
to disappoint Mr R as Ive seen how strongly he feels about this. But my decision ends what we  in attempting to resolve his dispute with AWP  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman