DRN-3129675
The complaint
Mr C complains about the amount of compensation hes been offered by Utmost Life and
Pension Limited (Utmost) as a result of the delay to the transfer of some of his pension funds
to another pension he holds with a different provider. He says this was caused by Utmost
providing incorrect information. He says that hes not been able to switch funds during the
transfer process and lost the opportunity of investment growth with his other pension
provider  as well as suffering considerable distress and inconvenience. So, he would like
further compensation from Utmost.
What happened
Mr C held a pension with Equitable Life, whose pension business was to be transferred to
Utmost on 1 January 2020  Ill refer to the business as Utmost throughout the rest of this
decision for clarity. For the previous few years Mr C had made a regular transfer from his
pension to a pension he held with another provider, that Ill call firm F  and then into his
bank account to cover living expenses. So on this occasion Mr C decided to request a
transfer of some his funds to his other pension before that 1 January 2020 deadline.
He says he sent that request on 14 November 2019 but when the transfer was taking too
long, he contacted both providers. Mr C said that firm F told him that Utmost had to give its
approval for the transfer and as it hadnt done so the transfer was still outstanding.
On 16 December 2019 Utmost spoke to firm F and, having realised the outstanding problem
was that firm F was waiting for its authorisation, requested firm Fs acceptance and bank
details. That information was received the following day and a payment was sent the next
day.
The transfer was eventually made on 18 December 2019 and Utmost, having realised it may
have provided incorrect information to firm F, offered £50 compensation to Mr C for any 
delay that was caused.
However, it said that even if it had provided correct information to firm F it would have
needed written authorisation and payment would then have been made within (up to) eight
working days. But it had ensured the payment was made quicker because of its error and
believed no overall delay occurred.
But Mr C wasnt happy with that offer because of the time and effort he said hed made to
investigate what had happened. So he brought his complaint to us where one of our
investigators looked into the matter and said he was satisfied that Utmosts compensation
offer was fair and reasonable. He said it was clear that Utmost had made an error in telling
firm F that it needed to approve the transfer. But hed also seen that firm F hadnt accepted
the transfer at that point, so when Utmost clarified its position the following day the transfer
process continued. 
The investigator said he didnt believe the transfer could have taken place any sooner even if 
Utmost had provided correct information. So, he thought the compensation offer of £50 was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that the evidence would suggest that firm F was told to wait for
Utmost to approve the transfer, so he didnt accept that firm F hadnt accepted the transfer
and that it couldnt have completed earlier. He didnt accept that, while firm F had paid him
£75 in compensation for its part in the matter, Utmost had only offered £50. He wanted the
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so it was passed to me to review.
Mr C also confirmed that, whilst he hadnt suffered any losses because of the delay, he
didnt carry out any trades or switches while the problem was ongoing, so it wasnt possible
to know if he would have gained from market fluctuations. He also didnt accept the
investigators point about firm F not accepting the transfer. He said it had carried out this
course of action many times before and we should approach firm F for evidence if
necessary.
Mr C also told us of further problems hed experienced in December 2020 over a similar 
request to transfer. He said this was an indication of the perennial problems he seemed to 
experience. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that I didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld and 
that Utmosts offer was fair and reasonable. I made the following summarised points in 
support of my findings, although this decision should be read in conjunction with the full text 
 and findings - of that provisional decision, which form part of this final decision:
I hadnt considered Mr Cs additional complaint point about the problems hed 
experienced with his pension withdrawal in 2020  we advised him to raise a further 
complaint with Utmost if he remained dissatisfied with that issue. I was only 
considering the problems hed had in 2019.
Utmost had confirmed receipt of Mr Cs partial transfer request and firm F had 
confirmed receipt of the necessary documentation from Utmost. But after that point  
when firm F called Utmost to progress matters, Utmost provided (incorrect) 
information that it couldnt conduct the transfer until after 1 January 2020. So I 
thought it was clear Utmost caused any delays and inconvenience from that time.
But when Utmost realised its mistake it ensured the transfer completed within two 
working days  so I had to consider to what degree the transfer was delayed 
because of Utmosts actions. 
I established that firm F hadnt progressed the transfer from 
29 November to 6 December 2019  which wasnt Utmosts responsibility. But I also 
established that Utmost was responsible for delays after 6 December 2019 because 
of the incorrect information it provided.
So I looked at what should have happened if Utmost had provided correct information 
on 6 December 2019 and the transfer had progressed as normal. But because 
Utmost acted immediately when it discovered its mistake and completed the 
transaction sooner than could otherwise have been expected, I didnt think that Mr C 
received his funds any later than he would have done under normal circumstances 
without any errors. 
I had asked firm F to quantify how long previous withdrawal requests had taken but 
Id not been provided with a response and had therefore made my decision on the 
balance of probability.
I didnt therefore think Mr C had suffered any financial loss as a result of Utmosts 
error. 
I acknowledged that Mr C had to chase up both providers and was to some extent 
instrumental in establishing the problem. And that he would have been concerned about the delays and the possibility of not receiving his funds. But overall, I thought 
the compensation hed received from both firms was fair and reasonable and broadly 
in the range of what Id expect to have seen. 
I hadnt considered the fairness of Utmosts offer against firm Fs because it was a 
matter for each business to decide. But I thought Utmosts offer, individually, was 
reasonable.
I hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that Mr C tried, and was prevented, from 
carrying out any trades or fund switches during the delay. Mr C had suggested he 
was reluctant to do so during this time, but I didnt think that Utmost had prevented 
him from trading on his pension account, so I didnt think it had done anything wrong 
there.
I thought Utmosts offer of £50 was a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Cs 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Utmost accepted the provisional decision and didnt wish to make any further comment, but 
Mr C didnt accept the outcome and made the following points in response:
He doubted that Utmost had acted with great urgency after it discovered its error.
Id failed to take into consideration that there was no proof that Utmost had made an 
error or otherwise.
We appeared light hearted in our view that hed not incurred any losses. He said 
that an important feature of his pension plans was the ability to switch between funds 
to take advantage of stock market fluctuations. He thought hed been denied that 
opportunity during the period the transfer was delayed. 
We hadnt fully taken into consideration that his need for the funds had become very 
urgent, that hed spend considerable time and effort in uncovering the delay and that 
the matter caused him aggravation.  
He was also concerned about whether the data protection act had been breached by 
Utmost in accessing his data during the transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered Mr Cs further submissions I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. I know this is an outcome that will disappoint Mr C, and I have some 
sympathy for the inconvenience hes been caused here  but I think Utmosts offer of 
compensation is fair and reasonable, so Ill explain my reasoning.
The 2019 transfer process 
Initially Mr Cs transfer request was received by Utmost, passed onto firm F and 
acknowledged by firm F by 29 November 2019. However, when firm F looked at the request 
it was unsure why it had to get permission from Utmost to progress the transfer and 
contacted Utmost to discuss further.
 
I listened to that telephone call of 6 December 2019 and I thought Utmost provided incorrect 
guidance as it seemed to suggest that no transfers could be progressed until it took over 
Equitable Lifes pension business in 2020. So it was difficult to conclude anything except that 
any further delays to the transfer from that point would have been caused by that incorrect 
guidance.By 16 December 2019 Utmost had become aware of its previous incorrect guidance and 
contacted firm F about the transfer. In order to put things right Utmost expedited the transfer, 
at no cost to Mr C, and it completed inside two working days. Mr C disputed that Utmost had 
acted with urgency and provided evidence from firm F to show that the transfer actually 
completed on 2 January 2020.  
Based on the evidence that Ive seen, and in conjunction with Utmosts usual service 
standards for completing such transfers, I dont think theres any dispute that Utmost did act 
with urgency on 16 December 2019. Indeed, Mr Cs own complaint form to us from 2020 
stated that It is true that the equitable took immediate action to rectify the problem. So I 
think Utmost did react with urgency when it was aware of its error  which was in part due to 
Mr Cs chasing of the transfer, and the transfer was completed soon afterwards. 
I note Mr Cs dispute of the date the transfer completed but hes provided evidence of the 
date that firm F completed the transfer. Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen that 
Utmost sent the money to firm F on 18 December 2019  therefore completing its part of the 
transfer.
But in any case, even if I am wrong about the sequence of events here, Im satisfied that by 
6 December 2019 firm F wasnt ready to progress the transfer and if Utmost had provided 
the correct guidance at this time then  based on the service standards Utmost had set out 
for such transfers, it was unlikely to complete things quicker than it was able to do when it 
expedited matters on 16 December 2019. 
I dont think that the service standards Utmost set out are unreasonable and I have tried to 
confirm with firm F how long previous transfer have taken  although Ive not been provided 
with a response. But, on balance, Ive decided that the transfer would have completed within 
broadly the same time scales, had the errors not occurred  so even allowing for the delay 
that Utmost caused I dont think Mr C suffered a financial loss because of that delay. 
Potential financial losses and lost investment opportunities
 
Mr C says weve taken a light hearted approach to the suggestion that he didnt suffer any 
actual or potential investment losses. He says one of the most important features of his plan 
is the ability for him to be able to switch between funds and take advantage of market 
movements  which he wasnt able to do while the transfer was delayed for fear that it might 
be jeopardised.
Id like to take the opportunity to reassure Mr C that I havent taken a light hearted 
approach to his complaint or indeed this particular point around losses. But as I said 
previously Mr C told us that he usually transfers the money from his second pension account 
to his bank immediately so there wasnt any potential for him to suffer investment losses in 
the transfer of his funds. 
And, even if the transfer had been delayed the funds remained invested, so Mr C wouldnt 
have suffered from being out of the market. 
But more importantly Mr C referred to the loss of potential investment opportunities, so Ive 
thought carefully about that possibility.  
However, I havent seen any evidence to show that Utmost put any restrictions on Mr Cs 
pension fund at that time or that it wouldnt allow him to transfer or switch funds. If Mr C was 
reluctant to make any trades on his account, which would be understandable in the 
circumstances, that was his decision to make and not Utmosts responsibility. Mr C hasnt been able to demonstrate that Utmost stopped him trading on his account or rejected any 
switches he tried to make, so I cant reasonably say that Utmost caused Mr C to lose any 
investment opportunities. 
Putting things right
Mr C has always said that he doesnt think Utmosts offer is fair in the circumstances. He 
thinks that £200 is more appropriate considering the time and effort he put in to establishing 
the error and the inconvenience its caused him  along with any potential investment losses. 
As I said previously, I dont underestimate the worry this would have caused Mr C, or the 
time and effort involved in uncovering the error and getting Utmost to correct the mistake. 
But, taking into account the total compensation he received from both firms involved here  
and Mr C has suggested that the amount he received from firm F was more than hed 
originally told us  I think its within the range of what Id expect to see for similar situations. 
I understand Mr Cs frustration here, and in his response to my provisional decision, when he 
talked about the mistake Utmost made, he suggested it could be as a result of abuse of the 
data protection act...or are we talking about hate crime?   so I understand how strongly 
feels about this matter.
Theres no evidence to suggest either of those possibilities might have occurred and I think 
the mistake was just a genuine mis understanding of the situation at the time from Utmost. 
But our role isnt to punish a business simply to compensate consumers for any financial 
loss or for any distress and inconvenience they might have suffered. In Mr Cs case I think 
the total compensation hes been offered is fair and reasonable and, while its a matter for 
each firm to decide upon levels of compensation, I think Utmosts offer is fair in all the 
circumstances and Im not going to ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
Utmost Life and Pension Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My decision is that, if it hasnt already, Utmost Life and Pension Limited should pay £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman