DRN-3797839
The complaint
Mr M has complained National Westminster Bank plc wont refund debit card transactions he 
didnt make.
What happened
Mr M got in touch with NatWest in mid-2021 to complain about 15 debit card transactions 
made on 14 and 17 May 2021. These amounted to £39,000 and were made to a crypto 
wallet. Mr M said hed not made these transactions.
NatWest confirmed their evidence showed calls between themselves and Mr M at the time of 
the disputed transactions to confirm these were authorised. They werent going to reimburse 
him as they believed hed made them himself.
Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence including the phone calls between Mr M and 
NatWest both at the time the transactions were made and later when Mr M complained to 
NatWest. He believed it was most likely Mr M had authorised the disputed transactions.
Mr M remained dissatisfied and has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. He 
talked about the distress this loss had caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ms complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Ms case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what NatWest and Mr M have told us. Ive also reviewed the detailed view our 
investigator sent on 28 September 2022. I dont feel the need to repeat all that was said 
there.
Overall I believe the evidence shows Mr M authorised the disputed transactions. I say this 
because:
There are three phone calls between Mr M on 14 and 17 May 2021 when the debit 
card transactions were being made. NatWest initially identified these transactions as 
unusual which triggered intervention. As transactions were blocked, Mr M was 
prompted to call NatWest to confirm the transactions as genuine. I have listened to 
these calls. I am satisfied these calls are between NatWest and Mr M. I can also hear 
NatWest send a security code to Mr Ms mobile number which Mr M then repeats 
back to NatWest. The evidence confirms the calls were made between NatWest and 
Mr Ms mobile phone number (which has been on Mr Ms NatWest account records 
for a number of years).
There are additional calls in June and August when Mr M raised his complaint. The 
same mobile phone number is used. The voice  which Mr M doesnt dispute is his 
on these later calls  sounds to me to be the same as the calls in May when Mr M is 
trying to ensure card transactions to a crypto wallet arent being blocked.
There are payments into Mr Ms current account to ensure there are sufficient funds 
in his account to enable £39,000 worth of debit card transactions. Mr M doesnt 
dispute these payments and explains these were related to his business. However 
the evidence is clear that without these funds, the debit card transactions could not 
have been made.
Mr M has noted NatWest only queried or blocked payments three times. As 15 
individual payments were made he wonders why more payments werent blocked. 
Mr M has also provided us with a spreadsheet of more than 60 attempted 
transactions between 14 and 20 May 2021. I believe this clearly shows that NatWest 
blocked significantly more transactions.
I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling on this matter that he didnt authorise these card 
payments, but hes not explained how his phone could have been used repeatedly over this 
period to ensure the payments could be made.
Ive considered that Mr M was the victim of a scam and was so caught up with what he was 
being enticed to do. However Mr M has strenuously denied this. Firstly I can see he was 
previously the victim of an investment scam and had been refunded so I believe hed have 
been alert to this again. I can also see Mr M told us and NatWest of a contact hed received 
from someone saying there was a blockchain with his money on it waiting to be released. 
Hed researched this immediately and identified it as a scam and taken no further action.
Overall Im satisfied Mr M authorised the disputed transactions. I wont be asking NatWest to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against National 
Westminster Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman