DRN-3107482
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is that Hfis Plc mis-sold him a landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W owns a property which includes 4 self-contained flats. He held a landlords insurance 
policy which was arranged through Hfis. The policy began in 2017 and was renewed with the 
same insurer a further three times. 
Mr W queried the policy wording with Hfis, as he was concerned about the policy definition of 
Private Residence and as such didnt think it provided the required cover for the four flats.
Hfis said the policy was suitable in line with the definition shown on the policy schedule.     
Mr W disagreed and complained.
Hfis referred the relevant parts of Mr Ws complaint to the insurer who provided a final 
response and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr W didnt agree and referred his complaint to our service. He said the policies hadnt been 
worded appropriately for his property, given its layout. And he added that because of this, if 
he was required to claim on more than one of the flats then the claim wouldnt be valid.
To put things right, Mr W asked for four years of premium to be refunded, and £400 
compensation total for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of his 
complaint.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded the policy provided cover for Mr Ws premises which included the four separate 
flats, so they didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold.
Mr W disagreed. He maintained his position that the policy wasnt suitable. And he was 
unhappy that the insurer had told him it would work with Hfis to amend the policy wording, 
but hed not had a response from Hfis since. As a result, he wanted £500 total 
compensation.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has raised many points in his response to our investigator. But Im not going to 
comment on everything hes said. Instead, Ive focussed on those most relevant to this 
complaint against Hfis, which is essentially that the policy was mis-sold. However, I want to 
reassure Mr W that Ive considered everything hes provided in reaching my decision.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Hfis terms of business state it will carry out a fair analysis of the market in order to 
identify suitable products that meet the demands and needs of Landlords. So Hfis 
had a duty to ensure the policy it recommended was suitable for Mr Ws needs. And 
in order to do so, it needed to ask sufficient questions in order to establish that the 
policy it recommended was suitable.
The Statement of Fact provided shows Mr W clearly describes the premises to be 
insured as, Flats (Conversion To Existing Dwelling), and later answered Number of 
Flats / Bedsits4. The separate flats are also listed with regards to occupancy and 
tenancy in the quotation document.
 
Based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied Hfis did enough to determine that the 
layout of Mr Ws premises would require a policy that covered the four flats, and that 
the remaining questions were sufficient for it to recommend a suitable policy.
Mr W has focussed on the wording in the policy booklet and says that as Private 
Residence is defined as A self-contained private dwelling house, maisonette or flat 
within a block of flats., this renders the insurance unsuitable for his property as a 
whole. 
But the policy booklet also says that the Policy is made up of several parts which 
must be read together as they jointly form Your contract of insurance. These are the 
Policy Wording, Summary of Cover, and Insurance Schedule. 
Having reviewed the policy documentation jointly, Im satisfied that it was suitable for 
Mr Ws needs. I say this because the policy schedule shows that the insurance cover 
is set up for four flats at the main premise address and as a result, Im persuaded 
that it covered him for each individual flat and the premises.
Mr W has raised a number of arguments about the potential impact of the policy wording 
should he have needed to claim, and the application of the Private Residence definition 
throughout the policy booklet. But as our investigator has already said, our role is to consider 
what actually happened, as opposed to potential claim scenarios.
So, as Im satisfied the policy provided a suitable level of cover for Mr W as required, I find 
Hfis position reasonable and wont require it to do anything further. And I dont find that the 
circumstances of this case merit any award for distress and inconvenience.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Hfis Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman