DRN-3131110
The complaint
Mr W complains about Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) and their decision to approve his 
application for a high interest loan.
What happened
In June 2017, Mr W applied for a high interest loan with ELL. His application was approved 
and he received a loan of £3,500 with a repayable amount of £9,956.52. This amount was 
payable over a 36-month term with a monthly repayment of £276.57.
But shortly after receiving this loan, Mr W fell into financial difficulty due to some unexpected 
bills which meant he was unable to afford repayments to his existing creditors. So, Mr W 
entered into a repayment plan with ELL through the use of a debt charity, who Ill refer to as 
S.
In May 2021, Mr W was still making payments towards the loan. And having thought about 
this, he was unhappy that ELL had provided him with the loan in the first place. So, he raised 
a complaint.
Mr W thought ELL shouldve realised the loan was unaffordable and declined his application. 
He didnt think ELL had estimated his income and expenditure correctly and he thought his 
bank statements showed he had less left in his account each month than the monthly 
repayment before the loan was approved. So, he wanted ELL to refund any interest and 
charges that had been applied to the account and to remove any negative information 
reported to his credit file.
ELL didnt agree. They thought the checks theyd completed before approving the loan were 
proportionate. And they thought the way they calculated Mr Ws disposable income was fair 
and this information showed the loan to be affordable and sustainable over its term. So, 
although they recognised Mr Ws financial situation changed and he ended up in a debt 
management plan, they didnt think their decision to approve the loan was unreasonable. 
And because of this, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr W remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think ELL had calculated 
Mr Ws income and expenditure fairly as ELL had included a child benefit payment which 
wasnt shown on Mr Ws statements. And they didnt think the loan appeared affordable 
when this income was removed. They also didnt think ELL had fully considered the amount 
Mr W was left with in his account each month after transfers before the loan was approved. 
So, they didnt think ELLs decision to approve the loan was reasonable and they 
recommended that ELL refund any interest and charges to Mr W plus 8% statutory interest if 
this cleared his outstanding balance and left money owing to him. They also thought ELL 
should remove any negative information reported to Mr Ws credit file for the account. Mr W 
accepted this but ELL didnt.
ELL didnt think theyd acted unfairly by considering the child benefit payment as they 
thought Mr W shouldve been eligible for this. And they didnt think they were obliged to 
decline the loan application based on the amount Mr W had left in his account as he was 
entitled to transfer funds between accounts as he wished. So, they maintained their belief 
they had lent to Mr W responsibly and didnt think they needed to do anything more. As ELL 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
There arent a set amount of checks a lender such as ELL is expected to complete before 
approving a credit application. But we would expect these checks to be proportionate to the 
loan thats provided and the total cost of the loan against a customers income. So, Ive 
thought about the checks ELL completed and whether they satisfy me they were 
proportionate. And Ive also considered whether the ELL assessed the information these 
checks provided fairly, when deciding the loan was affordable.
Ive looked at the application Mr W submitted. I can see this application stated he was 
earning £1,972.59 a month through full time employment, as well as receiving £148.95 in 
child benefit. I can also see he had two dependants and paid £795.00 towards his rent. I can 
see ELL considered all of this information as well as completing a credit check and three 
months bank statements and payslips. And having done so, they approved the application 
and Mr W agreed to pay a monthly repayment of £276.57 over 36 months. Considering Mr 
Ws income against the monthly repayment, I think the amount of checks ELL completed 
were proportionate.
But as Ive explained, as well as considering the proportionality of the checks, I also need to 
be satisfied ELL assessed the information these checks provided fairly to ensure the loan 
was both affordable and sustainable. And in this situation, I dont think they did. And Ill 
explain why.
First, I can see ELL factored in Mr Ws declared child benefit as part of his monthly income. 
But Ive looked at the bank statements Mr W provided and I cant see a record of any child 
benefit being paid to him. I wouldve expected ELL to query this before approving the loan 
based on an income with this included, and I cant see that they have. So, I think ELL 
shouldve considered the loan application based on his paid monthly income from his 
employment alone. And thats what Ive done when considering the loans affordability.
I can also see that ELL calculated Mr Ws monthly outgoings, which included outstanding 
financial commitments and living expenses to be £1,585.45. And this was calculated using a 
national average of 35% of Mr Ws net income. And they used this to consider the 
affordability of the loan.
But Ive seen from Mr Ws statements that he made several transfers out of his account on 
the day he was paid the same three accounts, one of these being his joint account. In 
February 2017, these transfers totalled £1,549.25. In March 2017, they totalled £1,936.50 
and in April 2017, they totalled £1,645. So, on average, they totalled £1,710.25 which is 
£124.80 more than the outgoings ELL estimated. And due to these transfers, Mr Ws 
account was left with less than the loans monthly repayment amount each month on the day 
after he received his monthly income.If I take the average of the three months transfer of £1,710.25 as Mr Ws average monthly 
outgoings and add the monthly repayment to this, Mr Ws outgoings would increase to 
£1,986.82 which is more than his monthly income. 
But I recognise ELL wouldnt have known what these transfers were for and that Mr W does 
have the right to manage his accounts as he wished. But I do think this information shouldve 
led ELL to ask more questions about the transfers Mr W was making each month. At the 
very least, I think ELL shouldve asked Mr W to provide statements of these accounts or give 
a details reasoning for the reasons for them in order to satisfy themselves he was able to 
reduce the amount he was transferring in order to cover the monthly repayment. But I cant 
see that they did so. 
And considering Mr W fell into financial difficulty soon after the loan was provided, and he 
had to enter a debt management plan to repay his creditors, I think its reasonable for me to 
assume that if ELL had completed a more in-depth investigation into these transfers and the 
state of Mr Ws finances, they wouldve deemed the loan to be unaffordable and declined the 
application. So, I dont think ELL acted responsibly when approving Mr Ws loan and Ive 
then thought about what they should do to put things right. 
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr W back in the position he wouldve 
been in, had ELL acted fairly in the first place. In this situation, if ELL had acted fairly, I dont 
think they wouldve provided the loan to Mr W. But, I also recognise Mr W has had the 
benefit of the capital loan ELL provided and so, Id expect him to repay the capital amount he 
received.
So, I think ELL should refund Mr W any interest and charges applied to the loan and if the 
loan hadnt been approved, Mr W wouldnt have accrued this debt. And if this refund clears 
Mr Ws outstanding balance and leaves an additional amount owing to him, I think this 
should be refunded to Mr W along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
And if ELL had acted fairly, Mr W wouldnt have received the loan and so, it wouldnt have 
been reported to his credit file. So, I think ELL should remove any negative information 
recorded on Mr Ws credit file relating to the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Everyday Lending Limited 
and direct them to take the following action:
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loan.
If this clears the loans outstanding balance and leaves Mr W with a refund owing to 
him, this refund should include 8% simple interest from the date the overpayments 
were made until the date of settlement; and
Remove negative information recorded on Mr Ws credit file relating to the loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Josh HaskeyOmbudsman