DRN-2869163
The complaint
Mrs B complains TSB Bank plc wont help her repay her credit card balance more quickly 
and cheaply.
Mrs B is represented by her husband. But for ease Ill refer to both their actions as hers. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B says TSB has effectively trapped [her] on a credit card with a very high interest rate 
and are not interested in providing a suitable solution to pay [the] debt down quicker or 
cheaper. She says this is the only thing she wants me to decide on.
Mrs B took out a credit card with TSB. When doing so she agreed to TSBs terms and 
conditions. These set out, amongst other things, how interest would be charged. I think this 
information was clear and I can see it was set out on Mrs Bs monthly statements as well. So 
Im satisfied she knew by spending on the card shed need to repay what she spent, plus 
interest. Mrs B also took advantage of some interest free promotions, which once expired, 
involved interest being charged. I think this was also clear from the terms and conditions and 
the monthly statements. 
When Mrs Bs promotions expired, she was being charged significantly more interest each 
month than she had been. This meant her repayments which were generally a little more 
than the minimum required, didnt reduce her balance by much. As I understand it, she 
attempted to transfer the balance elsewhere to reduce the amount of interest she was being 
charged, but was unsuccessful, so she asked TSB to reduce the interest rate.
Mrs B wanting to reduce the interest she was paying so she could repay the debt quicker 
and cheaper is sensible. But TSB didnt need to reduce the interest rate on her account. As it 
explained, interest rates arent set on an individual level and there is no negotiation. Thats 
the nature of credit cards. There are circumstances where a lender should do something to 
help. But Mrs B was making her minimum repayments and more, meaning she wouldnt be 
considered to be in financial difficulties. And her debt wasnt long standing enough to be 
considered persistent. Im not persuaded TSB breached its obligations by declining Mrs Bs 
request for an interest rate reduction.
Mrs B may feel trapped because other lenders declined her applications. But TSB isnt 
responsible for the lending decisions of others. Nor was it obliged to approve Mrs Bs 
request for a personal loan to repay her credit card balance. Ultimately Mrs B is in a similar 
position to many, many other people with credit card accounts which carry a balance. And 
TSB, like all credit card providers, is a business which lends money in return for interest 
payments. Here, Im not persuaded TSB has done anything other than decline Mrs Bs 
request for something out of the ordinary.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman