DRN-3802240
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) has refused to refund her the amount 
she lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mrs Ps husband had been investing with a business called Irone FX. The 
account held with Irone FX was showing a profit and Mr P attempted to make a withdrawal 
for which he was advised a withdrawal fee applied. 
Mrs P decided to make this payment though her Vanquis Visa credit card. Mrs P made the 
following transactions to a cryptocurrency exchange (BitTheBank). 
1. 18 January 2021 - £415.67
2. 25 January 2021  £2,987.00
The funds were then sent from BitTheBank to Irone FX.
Mrs P later realised she had fallen victim to a scam when Irone FX requested further funds 
to release their profits. Mrs P said Vanquis should have stepped in to protect her from the 
scam.
Vanquis attempted to process a chargeback for the payments Mrs P made to BitTheBank 
and temporarily credited Mrs Ps account for the funds she had lost. Unfortunately, this 
chargeback request was unsuccessful, and Vanquis debited the funds back from Mrs Ps 
account.
Vanquis also explained that it did not think it was responsible for Mrs Ps loss. The payments 
she had made in relation to the scam on her credit card were to a legitimate business and 
would not have triggered its fraud prevention systems.
Our Investigator considered Mrs Ps complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
agreed that the payments Mrs P made were unlikely to trigger Vanquiss fraud prevention 
systems so it wouldnt have been able to step in and prevent the scam.
 Mrs P disagreed so this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mrs P and Vanquis set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Vanquis 
should refund any of the money Mrs P has lost because of this scam.
Vanquis attempted to process a chargeback for the payments Mrs P made in relation to this 
scam to BitTheBank.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mrs P was dealing with Irone FX, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mrs 
P didnt make the debit card payments to Irone FX directly, she paid a separate 
cryptocurrency exchange (BitTheBank). This is important because Vanquis was only able to 
process chargeback claims against the merchant she paid (BitTheBank), not another party 
(such as Irone FX).
The service provided by BitTheBank would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mrs Ps payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, BitTheBank provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Mrs P paid. As BitTheBank 
provided the requested service to Mrs P the charge back attempt failed. As the chargeback 
attempt was unsuccessful under the rules that apply to the process, I think Vanquis acted 
fairly when it debited the funds back from Mrs P.
Mrs P has accepted she authorised the payments she made to BitTheBank, so the starting 
point here is that Mrs P is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services 
Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud 
and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Vanquis should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
to prevent the payments Mrs P was making.
Mrs P made two payments to BitTheBank (a legitimate business) that were separated by 
seven days. The first payment was made on 18 January 2021 for £415.67 and the second 
payment was made on 25 January 2021 for £2,987.00. Whilst I can appreciate Mrs P hadnt 
made payments to BitTheBank before, and usually made much smaller payments from her 
credit card it wouldnt be reasonable for me to suggest Vanquis should stop all larger 
payments its customers make to new payees. The amounts these payments were for were 
also not significant enough that I would expect Vanquiss fraud prevention systems to be 
triggered.
As I dont think the payments Mrs P made to BItTheBank would reasonably have triggered 
Vanquiss fraud prevention systems I dont think it would have been aware of the scam or 
have been able to step in to prevent it. So, I dont think Vanquis is responsible for Mrs Ps 
loss and I am not asking it to refund either of the payments she made.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman