DRN-2083176
The complaint
Mr M complains that Unum Ltd unreasonably refused a claim he made under his critical 
illness policy.     
What happened
Mr M joined his employers group critical illness scheme in July 2014. It offers him £50,000 
of benefit payable in the event of suffering one of a number of defined critical illnesses or 
events.  
In March 2019, Mr M sadly suffered from a non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction 
(NSTEMI). The following month, he underwent a CT coronary angiogram which confirmed 
he had an anomalous coronary artery. Stents were inserted into his left anterior descending 
artery (LAD) and one of its diagonal branches. 
Mr M made a claim via his employer to Unum for critical illness benefit in April 2019. Unum 
initially assessed the claim against under the policy definitions of Heart Attack and 
Coronary Angioplasty. However, the latter was quickly discounted as the wording required a 
single procedure on two or more specified coronary arteries, and Mr Ms was for one.
 
Unum sought medical evidence from Mr Ms GP. It also made attempts to obtain additional 
evidence from Mr Ms Consultant Cardiologist. However, despite repeated efforts, it did not 
receive a reply. It therefore reviewed the claim on the information it had available. 
In October 2019, Unum declined the claim. It said the evidence it received from Mr Ms GP 
confirmed Mr M had suffered a cardiac event. However, the information provided did not 
show that Mr M met the policy definition because there were no associated ECG changes 
and normal cardiac function was noted. 
Mr M complained. He said he believed his claim should have been paid. He also said that he 
was unhappy with the amount of time Unum had taken to review his claim as he was of the 
view that the GP had the same information that had been supplied by his Consultant 
Cardiologist. 
Unum rejected the complaint. It said it had acted fairly by refusing the claim on the 
information it had available. In respect of the delays, it explained that it was not liable for 
those. It had made many attempts to reach the Cardiologist to see if there was any 
additional information different to that held by the GP, but it had never received a reply.    
In the interim Unum also received a delayed reply from the Cardiologist. Unum said that the 
additional information didnt alter its view on the claim. It said the evidence confirmed that 
there were no associated electrocardiographic changes and so no positive findings on other 
diagnostic imaging tests  and this was a requirement of the policy wording. Further, the 
Cardiologist said he couldnt say in his view whether the policy terms had been met, as he 
felt that was a matter for Unum to determine. Unum felt he would have confirmed a heart 
attack if one that met the policy wording had taken place.   
Mr M appealed Unums decision. He said the evidence showed he had suffered a 
myocardial infarction (MI), and this was clearly set out on his discharge documentation. The 
angiogram he underwent showed arterial blockages causing a lack of blood supply to the 
heart and death of heart muscle and these were then stented accordingly. Further, all other 
medical evidence reconfirmed he had suffered a NSTEMI, which is medically accepted as a 
heart attack.  
Unum was unwilling to change its view. So, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. He 
explained that he felt he had been subjected to considerable injustice by the claim refusal, at 
what has been a particularly difficult time for him. He also said he couldnt understand why a 
claim hadnt been considered or paid under the Coronary Angioplasty policy wording as he 
had stents placed in two arteries.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint. 
In respect of the Coronary Angioplasty claim, she explained how Unum had been right to 
discount that as a valid claim and not pursue it further. That was because the policy wording 
required two or more main coronary arteries as a single procedure to correct narrowing or 
blockages of a specified severity. The main arteries were defined in the policy wording and 
Mr M had undergone stenting of one main artery and a further diagonal artery branching 
from it, not two listed main arteries. 
Turning to the heart attack claim, our investigator felt the complaint ought to succeed. Mr M 
had displayed raised troponin levels. And while he did not have electrocardiographic 
changes, she disagreed with Unums conclusion that there were no other positive findings on 
diagnostic imaging tests. She agreed with Mr M that his angiogram was one such test with a 
positive finding showing blockage of a significant artery which had caused the NSTEMI. She 
therefore considered a claim ought to have been paid.  
Finally, she did not think Unum was responsible for the delays in giving a claim decision to 
Mr M. Those delays were not caused by Unum but because it was awaiting a reply from Mr 
Ms Consultant, which it had reasonably sought in the circumstances.  
Unum disagreed. It said it had referred the matter back to its Chief Medical Officer (CMO). 
The CMO said the investigators interpretation of the criteria for the critical illness event of 
Heart Attack was medically incorrect. His view was that Mr M had suffered from a mild heart 
attack event, not one that met the severity given within Unums policy wording. 
He agreed that angiography was a diagnostic imaging test. Mr Ms angiogram showed 
narrowing in the LAD artery and its diagonal branch artery which showed positive findings. 
However, he said that the narrowing of these arteries didnt result from Mr Ms heart attack 
and the findings were not evidence of acute MI as required by the policy wording. 
In fact, he contended that that angiography, with the finding of narrowed coronary arteries 
and treatment with stenting, is often undertaken in situations where there is no suggestion 
that a heart attack has occurred; for example, as part of the investigation and treatment of 
angina.
Though the angiogram revealed that Mr Ms LAD had a severe mid vessel lesion and 
atheroma, this meant that the arteries were narrowed; they were not blocked. Where a 
severe mid vessel lesion could be associated with MI, the MI would be caused by factors 
related to the lesion, which did not occur with Mr M. The CMO said had there been blockage 
of an artery with acute thrombus this would have been likely to result in death of heart 
muscle with associated characteristic electrocardiographic changes but that was not the 
case with Mr M either. In his view, an example of other positive findings on diagnostic imaging tests that would 
provide evidence of acute MI -as required by the policy wording- was if an echocardiogram 
demonstrated abnormal movement of a section of the walls of the heart resulting from 
muscle damage caused by the MI. Contrastingly, Mr Ms echocardiogram demonstrated 
preserved left ventricular (LV) function without regional wall motion abnormality  and 
therefore no evidence of MI. 
The investigator issued a further view on the case. This time she felt the complaint could not 
succeed. 
Though she had previously felt that could fairly be argued that the angiogram could be 
considered positive findings on a diagnostic imaging test, she hadnt considered that the 
policy wording also required those positive findings to show a definite acute MI. Having re-
reviewed Mr Ms medical evidence, though initial admission to the hospital had recorded an 
MI, the Consultant Cardiologist later confirmed Mr Ms troponins had been raised because of 
an acute coronary syndrome (ACS)  and that description is for a wider range of medical 
conditions (one of which is MI). 
Mr M sought additional evidence from his Cardiologist that confirmed he had suffered from 
an MI. This was supplied by our investigator to Unum for further review. However, the CMO 
disputed the Cardiologists conclusions because he continued to include the wording of an 
ACS. He did not disagree that Mr M was diagnosed with a NSTEMI in March 2019. But he 
remained of the view that the ACS experienced by Mr M did not meet the critical illness 
event criteria for heart attack (MI) under Unums policy wording.
He also reiterated that it is not enough that there are positive findings on diagnostic imaging, 
these positive findings must show that a myocardial infarction has occurred. Mr Ms coronary 
angiogram was carried out by a different Consultant Cardiologist from the same hospital and 
in his report he made no mention of the evidence of plaque rupture that Mr Ms treating 
Consultant now referred to in his updated evidence. 
The CMO said that he did not dispute that plaque rupture is often the mechanism by which 
MI is precipitated. However, even if plaque rupture was apparent on Mr Ms coronary 
angiogram, this did not provide evidence of MI and it certainly did not provide evidence 
regarding the severity of Mr Ms MI such that a claim should be paid. 
Our investigator changed her view and reverted back to the opinion that the claims should 
be paid. She felt that the additional evidence received showed that Unum would be 
unreasonable to refuse a claim in the circumstances. 
She noted that the Consultant had confirmed that stenosis (narrowing) was the cause of Mr 
Ms heart attack and that he had suffered an MI. The policy wording did not go further to 
require a measure of severity beyond the findings on the angiogram that had provided the 
evidence set out by the Cardiologist, which she felt did confirm a definite MI. 
Unum said it remained of the view that a claim was not payable, and it asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. This complaint is complex and finely balanced. Having reviewed all of the 
information carefully, I agree with the current outcome of the complaint  that a claim should 
be paid to Mr M. My reasons for that are summarised below.  
For completeness, I note that neither party has raised any further comments or 
disagreement in respect of the claim under the Coronary Angioplasty wording. That claim 
cannot be satisfied because the policy wording has a severity which is set as the procedure 
taking place on two or more defined coronary arteries in a single procedure. Those arteries 
are given in an exhaustive list as right coronary artery, left main stem, LAD and (left) 
circumflex. Mr M had stenting on only one of the defined arteries, with the second location 
being a diagonal branch of the LAD as a parent vessel. I am therefore not going to address 
this point any further as I believe Unum rightfully rejected a claim under that second policy 
definition. 
Similarly, the issue relating to delays in the claim process has been clarified to Mr M. Whilst 
it was unfortunate that his Consultant Cardiologist was particularly delayed in replying to the 
request for further medical information, that was not Unums fault. It made many reasonable 
and timely attempts to gain that information and despite those efforts, a reply was delayed. I 
think Unum fairly refused this aspect of the complaint.  
Looking at Mr Ms employers policy wording, it defines the listed critical illness of Heart 
Attack as:
Death of Heart Muscle, due to inadequate blood supply, that has resulted in all of the 
following evidence of acute myocardial infarction
New characteristic electrocardiographic changes or other positive findings on 
diagnostic imaging tests
The characteristic rise of cardiac enzymes or Troponins
The evidence must show a definite acute myocardial infarction
For the above definition, the following are not covered
Other acute coronary syndromes or
Angina without myocardial infarction
The policy wording also explains how a claim is made. Under a claims assessment within 
the general terms, it explains that:
You must provide the evidence, information and access to information we need to 
assess the claim for benefit to be payable a critical illness must be established to the 
satisfaction of Unums Chief Medical Officer. We can decline a claim or adjust the 
benefit payable for a member it we do not receive the information that is described or 
listed in the user guide.
In essence, Unums CMO refutes the medical information provided by Mr Ms Consultant 
Cardiologist because, in his view, Mr M suffered from a mild NSTEMI. In stating that, he 
takes the view that the wording Ive set out above specifies a severity. 
In the guidance issued from the Association of British Insurers for Critical Illness policies, the 
model wording (as at 2011, the most proximate to when Mr M joined the employers 
scheme) does give wording entitled heart attack  of specified severity as a guide for 
insurers to use. The difference in the model wording is that an insurer can also include 
specific levels of the rise of cardiac enzymes or Troponins with required thresholds for 
Troponin T or AccuTnI. However, Unums policy wording issued to Mr Ms employer includes no such thresholds. 
And it is that wording that I must measure the claim against. I therefore disagree with the 
requirement to infer severity where no such condition is given in the policy terms. Instead, I 
need to determine if the information shows that a definite acute myocardial infarction (with 
certain features) took place as that is what the policy requires.  
In my view, the Cardiologists evidence is unequivocal in showing the policy wording above 
has been met. He set out that:
[Mr M] definitely suffered an Acute Coronary Syndrome in March 2020. This is 
alternatively known as Non ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction.
In terms of the Insurance Companys criteria he did not have new dynamic or 
characteristic ECG changes, but coronary angiography (a diagnostic imaging test) 
demonstrated severe stenosis with evidence of plaque rupture in the Left Anterior 
Descending and second diagonal branch. He had a characteristic rise in serial 
Troponin measurements.
From a clinical standpoint there is no doubt [Mr M] suffered a myocardial infarction in 
March 2019. In my opinion he also appears to meet the criteria as set out by his 
Insurance company.
I realise that the CMO has sought to dispute the assessment above because the 
Cardiologist has referred to Mr M having a type of ACS. But that doesnt discount that the 
evidence, in the view of the treating specialist, shows him to have had a definite MI. 
I understand that acute coronary syndromes encompass a spectrum of conditions including 
NSTEMI. The policy wording specifically excludes any other type of ACS, such as angina. 
The CMO, in his most recent reply noted that [the Consultant Cardiologist] states the Acute 
Coronary Syndrome is alternatively known as Non ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction but 
this is not accurate as someone presenting with ACS may also have unstable angina. 
I dont dispute the findings or the medical expertise of either Mr Ms Consultant or the CMO. 
But, I think the conclusion of the CMO relies somewhat on semantics, and it is a matter of 
interpretation. In my view, the Cardiologist isnt saying that the only type of ACS is NSTEMI. 
He is saying that Mr M had an NSTEMI, which is a type of ACS. 
Given that a qualified Consultant Cardiologist is saying in clear, unmistakeable terms that a 
patient has suffered from a myocardial infarction, I believe that aspect of the policy wording 
is met. So, providing there is confirmation of the two types of satisfactory evidence, that 
being new ECG changes or other positive findings on diagnostic imaging tests and the 
characteristic rise of enzymes or troponins, then a claim ought to be payable.  
Neither party disputes that Mr M had a recorded troponin level rise. And, by the time of his 
second medical view to this service, the CMO agreed that an angiogram amounted to an 
imaging test and that Mr Ms angiogram highlighted narrowing in the LAD artery and its 
diagonal branch artery which showed positive findings.
I recognise that when the Cardiologist was first asked for a medical assessment, his delayed 
reply said that he felt Unum was best placed to assess its own policy wording. But that 
doesnt mean the treating Consultant was unable to determine if a MI consistent with the 
definition in the policy had occurred in Mr Ms case. He was able to give his clinical 
assessment and he did so at that time, noting [Mr Ms] presentation was consistent with the 
2018 World Health organisation definition of a Type I myocardial infarction. He has now gone on to clarify it within the constraints of the wording, which I believe is sufficient to show 
a claim should be paid.  
It is entirely possible that two suitably qualified medical experts can reach different 
conclusions on review of the same set of medical facts. In scenarios such as these where 
two professionals give differing views, Ill decide which I think is the more reasonable on 
balance. The view of Mr Ms treating Consultant Cardiologist is something I give more weight 
to; this is not merely based on a measure of his knowledge or experience over Unums 
CMO, it is also the case that as the attending Consultant and specialist in the relevant field, 
he was best placed to comment on his view as to whether Mr M had suffered from a definite 
MI with the required evidentiary profile. 
Though I do not in any way suggest Unum would do so, if claims of this nature required an 
absolute agreement of a CMO then this could provide the potential to refuse claims 
arbitrarily. I do not believe that is what Unums CMO has done. Nonetheless, I find the 
opposing view more significant. I have seen no reason as to why I ought to disregard the 
comments from the Cardiologist. 
The rules which apply to this service set out that I am entitled to decide the outcome of a 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. And having done so I believe it would be unfair to refuse Mr Ms claims on the 
basis that the CMO takes a different clinical approach to clear evidence which otherwise 
meets the requirements of the policy  and particularly in this case where no specified 
severity is set out.  
I therefore believe the claim should be paid.  
 
Putting things right
Unum must pay Mr Ms critical illness claim in full. Interest should be added to the claim 
payment. 
It is worth noting that our awards of 8% interest are applied where a consumer may have 
been unreasonably deprived of their money; for example, if an insurer had sufficient 
evidence to meet a claim but failed to process a claim payment.
In Mr Ms case, I believe the interest shouldnt run from the date Unum first gave its claim 
outcome to Mr M in October 2019. At that time, Unum didnt have the view of the Consultant 
Cardiologist and when it did get a reply, the clinical assessment wasnt given within the 
constraints of the policy wording. Contrastingly, by the time of the Cardiologists second 
view, he assessed Mr Ms MI against the required Heart Attack policy wording and 
confirmed, in his view, that it had been met. 
Interest ought therefore to run from 12 August 2020. That is the date Unum confirmed it 
rejected the further assessment, but for the reasons set out above I consider it was clear that 
the medical evidence satisfied the policy wording and interest should run from that time. 
If Unum considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest paid, it should 
issue a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr M may be able to reclaim the tax paid 
from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct Unum Ltd to pay Mr Ms critical illness claim, with interest as 
detailed above. I make no other award.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman