DRN-4113378
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied to him through a hire 
purchase agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA 
Financial Services (BMWFS). 
What happened
In May 2022 Mr S acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS. 
The car was around three years old and had travelled 65,028 miles when it was supplied to 
Mr S. The cash price of the car was £20,750. Mr S made an advanced payment of £10,000 
so the total amount financed on the agreement was £10,750 over 60 monthly repayments of 
£223.25.
The history of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I dont propose to rehearse it 
here, but in summary, Mr S complained to BMWFS that a few days after acquiring his car it 
developed problems with oil consumption and the brakes which he reported to the 
dealership. 
The dealership advised Mr S to take it to a local garage and to top up the oil. The dealership 
covered the costs of the repairs to the brakes, but an oil leak couldnt be found.
Mr S said the oil levels kept dropping so in August 2022 he was advised by the manufacturer 
not to drive the car. Mr S said he hired a car between 19 August 2022 and 28 October 2022 
at a cost of £4,550.
After some further communication between Mr S and BMWFS, they issued their final 
response in October 2022. Mr S also brought his complaint to our service around the same 
time.
BMWFS didnt uphold Mr S complaint. They advised as the issues were reported outside of 
the first 30 days from supply, they wouldnt facilitate a rejection of the car. However, they 
said the dealership were willing to pick up the car and arrange a full repair. They also agreed 
to refund all monthly repayments from when the issues were reported up to the time of 
repair. They also advised theyd consider additional costs incurred.
After some further communication between Mr S, BMWFS and our investigator, BMWFS 
made an offer to settle the complaint which Mr S agreed to. The details of the offer were as 
set out below:
The dealer will collect the car from Mr S
After inspection, the dealer will send BMWFS settlement funds
The dealer will refund the deposit
BMWFS will refund any rentals the customer has paid while the vehicle has been off 
the road.
In March 2023, Mr S contacted our investigator to say that hed only been refunded eight 
rentals despite him making nine. He also said BMWFS wasnt going to re-imburse him the 
hire car costs. Mr S provided a copy of an email received from BMWFS dated 30 March 
2023 confirming this. 
As Mr S disputed the settlement offer, our investigator issued their view concluding that the 
offer from BMWFS was fair and reasonable.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view on the basis that he felt all the monthly repayments 
should have been refunded. Mr S asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we can consider Mr Ss complaint about 
BMWFS. BMWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this agreement, and is 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that BMWFS supplied Mr S with a used car that had travelled around 
65,000 miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect 
the level of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there 
may be visual signs of wear and tear due to its usage. Having said that, the car was priced 
at £20,750 which isnt insignificant. It also wasnt a particularly old vehicle. So, I think it is fair 
to say that a reasonable person would expect it could be used free from any major issues for 
a reasonable period of time.From the information provided Im persuaded there was a fault in relation to an oil leak. 
Although I havent seen a diagnostic report confirming this, BMWFS system notes confirm 
on 16 August 2022, a diagnostic report was received from Mr S which they sent on to the 
dealership. Both parties are also in agreement that a problem exists with an oil leak. 
Having considered all the details of this complaint, I dont consider there is a dispute that the 
car is faulty and that an oil leak has caused the issue. I also dont consider theres a dispute 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S. 
Mr S complained that this was the case from the moment he raised the issue to BMWFS in 
August 2022, and BMWFS has processed the rejection. All things considered; Im satisfied 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality on the basis that Mr S reported issues with the oil levels 
at the same time as when he raised the issue with the brakes. The dealership later arranged 
to cover the cost of the brakes, but the oil issue was left to develop without a repair. I 
consider also that the dealership had their opportunity to repair the fault when Mr S raised it 
to them.
As Ive concluded the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S, and 
that the dealership was given an opportunity to repair it, under the CRA Im satisfied that a 
rejection of the car was a fair and reasonable course of action. 
However, although a rejection was carried out in March 2023, what appears to be in dispute 
now is the redress to put things right. 
BMWFS made an offer which our investigator agreed with; however, Mr S says that the 
settlement wasnt fully honoured because it specified hed be refunded all monthly 
repayments from when his car was off the road.
BMWFS system notes show that on 12 August 2022 Mr S confirmed he was told by the 
manufacturer that the car wasnt safe to drive and that hed been without a car for a week at 
that point. Ive no reason to doubt what Mr S has said here, for example Ive seen no 
evidence to the contrary, so Im persuaded Mr S hasnt driven his car from around 12 August 
2022. 
Having said that, although BMWFSs settlement offer says theyll refund any rentals whilst 
the car was off the road, Im in agreement with our investigator that Mr S should pay for the 
usage hes had. Mr S confirmed in an email to our investigator that the mileage on his car 
was around 70,000 which was about 5,000 more than when it was supplied to him. Its also 
recorded on BMWFSs system notes that a week prior to 12 August 2022 Mr S stopped 
driving the car. This is also consistent with the dates Mr S hired a car, as per the invoice 
provided. 
The evidence suggests that Mr S used the car from when it was supplied to him In May 2022 
up to the start of August 2022, so over two months of usage. However, BMWFS only held 
back one monthly repayment. I think this is fair as the additional monthly repayment would 
account for any inconvenience Mr S was caused as a result of this situation. 
So, all things considered, Im satisfied that BMWFS are acting fairly by withholding a months 
repayment to cover the usage. 
Im also in agreement that it wouldnt be fair to ask BMWFS to also reimburse the hire car 
costs in addition to the refund of the monthly rentals.  Mr S would effectively have benefitted 
from free motoring if that were the case.As Ive concluded that the settlement offer made by BMWFS was fair and reasonable, I dont 
require BMWFS to take any further action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Mr S complaint against BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman