DRN-3645248
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) 
unfairly turned down their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs G bought two points-based timeshare memberships from a business Ill call 
X. In July 2006 they purchased the first timeshare in dispute at a cost of £15,283. This 
was part funded by a loan from GE Money for £9,688. In addition to the timeshare 
purchase, Mr and Mrs G also refinanced existing credit of £2,400 into this loan.
In February 2007 Mr and Mrs G purchased additional points. The total cost of this 
purchase was £22,912 (plus an additional £235 for Membership/Dues). To fund the 
purchase, they traded in their existing points and borrowed an additional £8,563 from 
GE Money. At this time, £12,850.37 was refinanced into this loan. Therefore, the first 
loan (taken in July 2006) was repaid at this time and refinanced into the second loan. 
GE Money has said the second loan was repaid in October 2007.
Mr and Mrs G say that the point-based timeshares were misrepresented to them and 
they would not have taken out the timeshares in the first place had these 
misrepresentations occurred. Mr and Mrs G say that when they took out the timeshares 
they were told that they could easily sell their membership points, however they since 
found out that there is no secondary market for these products.
In addition, theyve described sales processes and selling tactics which pressured them 
into contracting in both instances. They say they expected to be able to holiday at any 
resort in the UK and worldwide, at any time, and that the standard of holiday would be the 
same as the resort they were shown in Tenerife (during the second timeshare purchase). 
This wasnt the case and booking has become increasingly difficult and complex. The 
membership also wasnt exclusive which they thought it would be. And they say no 
information was gathered about the suitability of the loans i.e. whether they could afford 
to repay them.
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs G, using a representative, complained to GE Money. In summary it 
responded to say that a claim for misrepresentation has been raised too late under the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It said the affordability concerns Mr and Mrs G have raised were 
also outside the timeframes of the LA. And it said that s140A CCA doesnt apply as both 
loan accounts were closed before April 2008 (and in any event they would have been raised 
too late under the LA).
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed 
to do anything further. They thought that the claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA had 
been brought too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the 
substance of the claims. They also didnt think that s.32 LA could extend the limitation 
period. In relation to the affordability complaints they explained that we cannot 
consider this aspect of the complaint as the loans were taken out before 6 April 2007.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives responded to explain why they thought the complaint 
had been brought in time. So the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision, and enclose an extract below: 
Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter and 
Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision 
about the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my 
decision. And I want to assure Mr and Mrs G that if I dont address every point 
thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered 
everything thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this 
decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
The claims under s.75 CCA
Mr and Mrs G say that X misrepresented the nature of the timeshare memberships to 
them when they bought them. But under section 9 of the LA, Mr and Mrs G had to 
make those claims within six years of when they entered into the timeshare and credit 
agreements  which was in July 2006 and February 2007  because thats when they 
say they lost out having relied on false statements of fact.
However, as Mr and Mrs G first made their claims to GE Money in July 2019, 
they fell outside of the time limits set out in the LA.
The claims under s.140A CCA
Section 140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of 
that Act sets out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit 
agreement had completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be 
brought in respect of that credit agreement. Based on the information I hold, both 
agreements were repaid prior to 6 April 2008 (in February and October 2007) so 
s.140A CCA does not apply to these agreements. And Mr and Mrs G cannot make 
s.140A CCA claims in respect of them.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have 
considered the facts of this complaint and I do not think the time limits I have set out 
above can be extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives argue that the limitation period should be extended under
s.32 LA. This extends the limitation period in circumstances of fraud, deliberate 
concealment or mistake to the point at which Mr and Mrs G discovered this (or could 
reasonably have been expected to discover this if theyd exercised reasonable 
diligence.) They argue that although Mr and Mrs G were aware they had a legitimate 
grievance, they werent aware they had an actionable claim. However, what theyve said 
here clearly acknowledges they were aware of the problems theyre now seeking to claim about (in relation to their misrepresentation claims). And s.32 LA doesnt draw the 
same distinction between legitimate grievance and an actionable claim which Mr and 
Mrs Gs representatives are inviting me to reach.
I note theyve also said that the length of the contract was unlawful. However, theyve 
not explained how the length of the contract was misrepresented to Mr and Mrs G 
(which are the only claims Im able to consider.) In addition, theyve said this was 
deliberately concealed from Mr and Mrs G, together with the fact members could exit 
the contracts giving 28 days notice. However, theyve not explained how this 
information was deliberately concealed from Mr and Mrs G or why they couldnt have 
uncovered these issues by exercising reasonable diligence. So I dont think s.32 LA 
extends the limitation periods in this case.
Furthermore, Mr and Mrs Gs representatives have provided a citation for a case which 
they seek to rely on without providing any details of how this applies to these claims or 
the conclusions they wish me to draw from it. So it follows that this doesnt change the 
conclusions Ive reached above.
Affordability of the loans
The Ombudsman Services Consumer Credit Jurisdiction (CCJ) started on 6 April 
2007. At this time the Ombudsman Services jurisdiction was expanded to allow it to 
consider Consumer Credit Activities (the regulated activity) which includes granting 
restricted credit agreements.
Mr and Mrs Gs loans were restricted credit agreements as the loans were given for a 
specific purpose (to fund the timeshare purchases) and the funds werent paid to Mr 
and Mrs G. However our CCJ did not apply retrospectively and as Mr and Mrs G took 
out their loans before 6 April 2007 (in July 2006 and February 2007) these aspects of 
their complaint fall outside the Ombudsman Services jurisdiction and therefore I dont 
have the power to consider them.
In addition, an allegation of irresponsible lending could also fall under a s.140A CCA 
claim. However, Ive explained above why s.140A CCA doesnt apply to these loans.
I asked both parties to provide anything further before I reached a final decision. 
Neither party (GE Money or Mr and Mrs G and their representative) provided a 
substantive response the conclusions reached in my provisional decision on this case. 
Given the provisional decision was issued on 30 June 2022, I consider both parties 
have had sufficient time to provide such a response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings made in my provisional decision 
(which forms part of this decision.) So it follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
To summarise, I think the claims under s75 CCA were made too late and outside the 
relevant limitation period set out in the LA. Im also not persuaded by the arguments made to 
extend the limitation period and I see no other reason to extend it. 
In relation to the s.140A CCA claim, I dont think s140A CCA applies to these agreements so 
Mr and Mrs G cannot make claims in respect of this. Turning to the complaints about the affordability of the loans, the loans were given before the 
Ombudsman Services Consumer Credit Jurisdiction started and so Im unable to consider 
these complaints.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
