DRN-4011484
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about their car insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
regarding poor repairs completed to their vehicle, including how Admiral proposed to resolve 
the same.
What happened
Admiral was repairing Mr and Mrs Js car in January 2022 and subsequently returned it to 
them. They found the door wouldnt shut properly, there was a noise whilst driving and a fan 
wasnt working. They told Admiral of their concerns, and also that the garage had asked 
them to pay £550 as their excess, when their policy said £500. 
An independent engineer (IE) was appointed by Admiral to check the car. It was found the 
door would shut if lifted  but it needed adjusting, that the noise was likely from a panel 
which was slightly out of line  which would also need adjusting. The IE recommended that 
Admirals original repairer should complete the work which Mr and Mrs J initially agreed to. 
But regarding the fan the IE did not think that was related to the accident or repairs, so he 
didnt recommend the garage fix it. Regarding the excess Admiral noted the garage had 
asked for the wrong amount. Admiral wrote to Mr and Mrs J confirming its findings in a final 
response letter dated 15 February 2022. It said it would pay them £110 compensation which 
included £10 for the cost of calls theyd made.
Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy about the decision regarding the fan. And they were no 
longer prepared to give the garage a chance to repair the other aspects. Admiral wrote to 
them in early March 2022, noting it was still providing them with a hire car  but that without 
the repairs progressing, that would have to be withdrawn. Mr J learnt on the afternoon of 
31 March 2022 that he was expected to return the hire car by the end of that day. Mr J spoke 
to Admiral on 31 March 2022. By the end of the conversation he was very upset and felt 
Admirals operative had intimidated and bullied him. During the conversation he explained 
that theyd asked Admiral to arrange another repairer to rectify the poor work of the initial 
garage. Admiral said the garage should have a chance to resolve the problems. The hire car 
was extended over the weekend. 
Mr and Mrs J subsequently raised a further complaint about Admirals refusal to provide an 
alternative repairer, the phone call with Mr J and the effect it had on his health, the short 
notice and subsequent removal of the hire car resulting in their incurring costs for taxis 
because their car was unsafe to drive, and Admirals lack of reply to their letters. Admiral 
answered their concerns in a final response letter dated 13 June 2022. It accepted that its 
request on 31 March for return of the hire car that day came with too short notice. But it 
maintained it was fair, in the circumstances, for it to have been withdrawn. Admiral felt the 
call handler on 31 March had sometimes talked over Mr J and confirmed feedback would be 
given. It acknowledged that two letters had not been replied to, explaining this was due to 
service demands it had been facing. It offered £225 compensation for the upset caused, 
including £25.00 for its delays in dealing with Mr and Mrs Js complaint. But it said the car 
was safe to drive and that it had been trying to arrange its repair. So it wasnt minded, at that 
time, to consider their losses incurred since the hire car was withdrawn in March 2022. 
Admiral felt it couldnt comment on Mr Js health. Mr and Mrs J complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Whilst their complaint was being considered Mr and Mrs J continued to correspond with 
Admiral  although it did not always respond as theyd like. When our Investigator reviewed 
the complaint, she explained that she could only take the complaint into account as up to the 
final response of 13 June 2022.
In respect of what had happened until June 2022, our Investigator felt Admiral had 
responded reasonably to the repair issues. She also felt it had adequately compensated 
Mr and Mrs J for their upset caused by its service failings. So she didnt uphold their 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs J said it wasnt appropriate that Admiral had ignored their requests for a copy of 
the call on 31 March, or to send their policy documents. They remained unhappy both about 
their contact with Admiral after June and for having been without their car for so long. They 
felt aggrieved that this all stemmed from the initial repairer doing poor work, returning their 
car in an unsafe state. With Admiral not responding to their emails and not making a 
reasonable offer of an alternative repairer to fix the car until September 2022. They noted 
their financial losses had not been compensated for.
Our Investigator provided a copy of the call recording and their policy documents to 
Mr and Mrs J. She confirmed the scope of this complaint, that Admirals initial offer to have 
the original repairer fix the problems it had caused was in-line with what shed expect it to 
have done and that she felt that the total compensation paid was fair. Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for the further upset I understand this will cause Mr and Mrs J, 
Im not upholding their complaint. My scope of review is limited to what happened up until 
13 June 2022. So I wont be commenting on how the issues at the heart of this complaint 
moved on after that point, or how Admiral handled things at that time, including concerns 
raised by Mr and Mrs J that it delayed things further. Also, I note our Investigator has 
provided the call recording and policy documents to Mr and Mrs J. Im aware that theyre 
unhappy that Admiral didnt provide these to them but with the policy documents at least, 
their request for copies came after theyd complained to us. They had asked Admiral for a 
copy of the call before it issued its final response and it isnt clear to me why Admiral didnt 
provide this  the request wasnt dealt with in its final response letter. But call recordings are 
usually subject to data protection requirements  so if Mr and Mrs J think Admiral should 
have provided a copy and didnt, they may like to refer this concern to the Information 
Commissioners Office.
Clearly Admirals garage should have taken care to properly repair Mr and Mrs Js car and 
return it to them without any outstanding repair issues. Its unfortunate that didnt happen 
here. But when the repair issues were raised with Admiral, in my view, it acted reasonably in 
response to try and resolve them. It appointed an engineer to assess the car and then acted 
on the expert consideration and recommendation received. 
I know Mr and Mrs J have since rectified the fan themselves. But I know they were initially 
unhappy with Admirals refusal to repair it. I can understand their frustration at that time but 
I think Admiral reasonably relied on the engineers expertise in this respect. I appreciate that the bodywork issues caused Mr and Mrs J a good deal of worry. But I see 
that at the point a further repair by the original garage was initially agreed, they did have the 
benefit of a hire car for use. I understand that Mr and Mrs J ultimately felt unhappy to allow 
that original repairer a chance to resolve the faults. But that is often how insurers like to 
approach repair issues in the first instance. It does help to ensure consistency and that no 
delays or other issues arise by trying to refer unfinished or poor quality work to someone 
else to resolve. Im persuaded that, here, it was fair for Admiral to look to resolve the repair 
issues in that way, and Im mindful its policy allows for it do that too. 
I realise that when Admiral withdrew the hire car, this left Mr and Mrs J feeling they had no 
choice but to use taxis to get around. But, Admiral, based on the repair advice of the 
engineer, didnt believe the car was unsafe to drive. And, importantly, it had put forward a 
reasonable option for resolving the repair issues  having the garage fix them. Because 
Admiral had put forward a reasonable proposition for resolution, any costs incurred as a 
result of that not being taken up by Mr and Mrs J, cant reasonably be laid at its door. Id 
emphasise here that I know some things changed after the June 2022 final response letter, 
and there are concerns that in this later period there were communication issues and delays. 
Nothing Ive said about costs incurred here relates to any failures that might have occurred 
in that later period (which I am not considering). If Mr and Mrs J think theyve incurred costs 
after 13 June 2022, on account of failures by Admiral during that period, those concerns can 
form part of a further complaint.  
I understand that dealing with the ongoing repairs and having the call with Admiral on 
31 March 2022 has caused Mr J in particular great upset and affected his health. Its truly 
unfortunate that this has been so difficult for Mr J. But I do think Admiral responded to the 
repair concerns, as I said above, reasonably. I think it also did that in a timely manner  
being made aware of the problems at the end of January 2022 and having offered to resolve 
them by mid-February 2022. I understand that Mr and Mrs J think the call on 31 March 2022 
involved intimidation and bullying. Having listened to the call it is clear to me that towards the 
end Mr J has become frustrated and distressed. And, as noted by Admiral, the call handler 
did often talk over Mr J. I can see why he said to her that he needed to have a chance to say 
his piece. But Im not persuaded there was any intimidation meant or that the handler was 
bullying Mr J. Clearly both were talking at odds with Mr J feeling their concerns about using 
the original repairer were justified and the handler seeking to explain why this was not the 
case. Mr J was very distressed when the call ended and Im sorry he felt so badly but, in my 
view, Admirals call handler didnt cause that by acting unprofessionally as suggested. 
Having heard the call and how it ended, I accept that Mr Js health has likely suffered during 
all of this. But, as with Mr J feeling intimidated and bullied during the phone call, and in light 
of all my findings here, I also find I cant fairly blame Admiral for that.
There were some service failings by Admiral during this period which I am considering. As 
noted, the garage tried to charge too much excess, Admiral withdrew the hire car at too short 
notice, its call handler spoke over Mr J and it didnt respond to some communication from 
Mr and Mrs J. Of course there was also inconvenience caused when, with them having 
identified repair issues with their returned car, Admiral had to asses it. It paid them 
compensation of £300 in total for the upset caused. Admiral also noted a delay in responding 
to their complaint, paying £25 and felt it appropriate to pay them £10 for call costs. Taking 
everything into account, I think Admirals settlement in these respects is fair and reasonable.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman