DRN-3090846
The complaint
Mr M complains Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) have unfairly 
requested he pay an early repayment charge on his buy to let mortgage account.
What happened
Mr M says he held an interest only buy to let (BTL) mortgage account with Virgin, which he 
fully repaid in early March 2021, following a series of lump sum reductions in the preceding 
months. Mr M says despite him having a telephone conversation with Virgin to confirm what 
he owed and receiving a redemption statement from them, he then received a demand for 
an early repayment charge (ERC) of £830. Mr M says he had specifically asked Virgin what 
was owed, and despite being told the amount and receiving a closing statement, he is now 
being asked to pay the ERC which is putting him under undue pressure. Mr M says Virgin 
should confirm the BTL mortgage is repaid and nothing further is owing, in line with the 
redemption statement they issued.
Virgin says there is a short period of time after any payments are made to the BTL 
mortgage, before the letter regarding the ERC is generated. Virgin says the ERC relates to 
multiple lumps sums Mr M made to his BTL mortgage within a short period, before it was 
repaid. Virgin have apologised for any confusion created over the ERC, but says it remains 
due. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Virgins response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Virgin were entitled to charge the ERC in line with the terms and conditions 
of the BTL mortgage. The investigator says the fees related to lump sum reductions Mr M 
made to his BTL mortgage in February and March 2021. The investigator says Virgin didnt 
send a redemption statement only a closing statement of the BTL mortgage and found the 
telephone conversation that Mr M refers to with Virgin, concerns a mortgage exit fee and not 
the ERC. While the investigator could understand that Mr M thought he had repaid the BTL 
mortgage, the ERC was still payable. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr M to have believed he 
had repaid his BTL mortgage, only to find an ERC was still due to be paid, even after he had 
obtained a closing statement for the BTL mortgage and had verbal confirmation from Virgin it 
had been repaid.  
When looking at this complaint, I will consider if Virgin acted fairly when it demanded the 
payment of the ERC, post the closure of Mr Ms BTL mortgage. 
Mr Ms complaint here centres on the fact, despite him specifically asking for a redemption 
figure for his BTL mortgage over the telephone and subsequently being told he owed nothing 
more, alongside receipt of a closing statement for his BTL mortgage, Virgin are now 
demanding the payment of an ERC. Mr M has also made the point that if Virgins systems 
werent adequate to be able to calculate what he owed, he shouldnt have to be held 
responsible for that. 
This service has been provided with various documents from Virgin, amongst which is a 
copy of the terms and conditions of Mr Ms BTL mortgage, and its fair to say under Section 
10 of the agreement headed Early Repayment Charges, it does state that a 2% ERC would 
be payable on any lump sums repaid before 31 January 2022. 
Mr M made a series of early lump sum reductions totalling £24,000 and £5,000 in early 
February 2021 and on those occasions he was charged a 2% ERC within a couple of weeks 
of this. In addition to this, I have listened to the telephone calls that Mr M refers to. The first 
is, in early February 2021 where Mr M asks for a redemption figure for his BTL mortgage 
and is told the outstanding sum, including an ERC representing 2% of the outstanding 
balance at that time. Additionally, I have seen several letters issued to Mr M following lump 
sum reductions he made during February 2021 highlighting a 2% ERC was payable on those 
amounts. So, with that in mind I cant say Mr M wasnt reasonably aware that an ERC was 
payable, when lump sum reductions like these are made to his BTL mortgage. 
I think its also fair to say there was some confusion during the telephone call Mr M made in 
early March 2021, when he queried a fee of £195 on his BTL mortgage, but having listened 
to that call, Im satisfied Virgins advisor was referring to a standard security release fee and 
not the ERC when he confirmed it had already been paid. While at this point Mr M may have 
thought he had nothing further to pay, unfortunately the due ERC had yet to be charged and 
while ideally Virgin could have applied this sooner, thats not to say it wasnt still payable. 
In this case Virgin wrote to Mr M within two weeks of the redemption of his BTL mortgage, 
requesting he pay the ERCs of £830 for the lump sum reductions he made in late February 
and early March 2021 totalling £41,500. Its worth saying that Virgin have explained they 
would normally charge the ERC around ten working days after any lump sum repayments 
are made, but unfortunately that didnt happen here as this coincided with the closure of Mr 
Ms BTL mortgage in early March 2021. 
Although I can understand that must have been frustrating for Mr M, its not my role to 
punish businesses when they make an oversight like this, but to ensure consumers arent 
financially disadvantaged as a result  I cant say Mr M was here. 
Like the investigator, I cant see a formal redemption statement was issued to Mr M, only a 
closing BTL mortgage statement. While I can understand that Mr M may have thought he 
had nothing further owing, thats not to say Virgin cant subsequently request the payment of 
the ERC due, under the terms and conditions of the BTL mortgage, within a reasonable 
space of time.
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of Virgin. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman