DRN-3238711
The complaint
Mr G complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a 
loan he could not afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2016, Mr G acquired a car and financed the deal through a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. Mr G was required to make 45 monthly repayments of £142.02, 
The total repayable under the agreement was £6,390.90.
Mr G says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included reviewing Mr Gs pay slips and checking 
his credit file.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr G didnt agree and said that he would not have had enough money in his bank account if 
it wasnt for the payments he was receiving from his ex-wife to cover the finance. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Moneybarn didnt ask Mr G about his expenditure. Although it did complete a credit check, 
this wont have indicated what Mr Gs regular living expenses were. Without knowing what 
Mr Gs regular committed expenditure was Moneybarn wouldnt have got a reasonable 
understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete 
proportionate checks. 
I cant be certain what Mr G would have told Moneybarn had it asked about his regular 
expenditure. I dont think Moneybarn needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr Gs 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that     
Mr Gs regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around £1,097. In calculating 
this figure, Ive included car tax, insurance, mobile phone costs, loans, child maintenance, 
food, and a regular monthly payment. At the time Mr Gs average income appeared to be 
about £1,516. Taking these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was 
affordable to Mr G who would have had a disposable income of about £419.
Whilst I can see some payments from a Mrs G into Mr Gs bank account Ive not taken them 
into account when calculating Mr Gs disposable income. Had I done so it would have 
suggested the agreement was even more affordable.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman