DRN-3430196
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. But for 
context, Ill set out the transactions Mr M wants Lloyds to refund:
Date Transaction type Merchant Amount
9 Jul 2020 Card payment CEX.IO £883.16
13 Jul 2020 Card payment CEX.IO £1,319.67
14 Jul 2020 Card payment CEX.IO £238.56
16 Jul 2020 Card payment CEX.IO £206.28
28 Jul 2020 Card payment CEX.IO £780.64
30 Jul 2020 Card payment CEX.IO £2,898.19
6 Aug 2020 Card payment CEX.IO £2,475.90
17 Aug 2020 Card payment CEX.IO £230.44
  Total £9,032.84
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Although Mr M was scammed, its not in dispute that he authorised these payments. 
Lloyds is expected to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. 
So the starting position is that Mr M is liable for the payments.
Some banks, including Lloyds, have signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) code  under which banks are (generally, subject to the code terms) 
expected to refund victims of authorised push payment scams. But that doesnt apply 
here as it doesnt cover card (pull) payments, or those made to accounts held by the 
consumer. And Mr M made these card payments to his CEX.IO account, to purchase 
cryptocurrency to send onto the scammers.
Outside the code, there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking 
into account relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud 
risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction 
before making the payment. If Lloyds failed to identify a fraud risk when it should 
have done, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it may be fair to hold it liable. 
Here, I agree with the investigator that the merchant Mr M was paying directly  
CEX.IO  wouldnt have given Lloyds cause for concern. Neither the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA  the UK financial regulator) nor the Investor Alerts Portal 
Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO - the international body that brings 
together the worlds securities regulators) have issued regulatory or scam warnings 
about them. CEX.IO appear to have been operating legitimately. So when Lloyds 
received a payment request from them, that wouldnt have seemed suspicious.
Nor am I persuaded that Lloyds should have been otherwise aware that Mr M was at 
risk from fraud. We expect banks to be alert to indications such as significantly large, 
out of character payments, or a series of payments, in short succession, to a new 
payee. But here, the payments didnt appear so unusual amongst Mr Ms general 
account activity that I would have expected Lloyds to have intervened. Particularly as 
the payments were spread out, and going to the same, legitimate payee  making 
them appear less suspicious. So I dont think Lloyds had obligation to intervene with, 
and possibly prevent, these payments.  
Ive also considered whether Lloyds is at fault for its actions following the scam. As 
these were card payments, they were covered by the chargeback scheme  a 
voluntary scheme run by the card provider, offering some recourse for payment 
disputes. But such claims can only be considered if theres a dispute with the 
merchant the consumer paid directly. Here, theres no allegation that the direct 
recipient  CEX.IO  didnt do what they should have done. At Mr Ms request, they 
opened an account for him, loaded that with the cryptocurrency he paid for, and 
subsequently transferred this on. So Lloyds couldnt have helped Mr M recover the 
payments through this scheme.
Mr M is also unhappy with Lloyds service over the phone after he raised his dispute. 
Im aware he wants our service to listen to a particular call. But, as weve explained, 
its down to us to determine what information we need to reach a fair outcome. And 
Im not persuaded I need to listen to the call directly, as Lloyds has admitted it wasnt 
handled as it should have been. Its already paid Mr M £24 for his call costs plus £75 
for his distress and inconvenience. So all that remains for me to decide is whether 
more needs to be done to put this right.
Broadly, when a business makes an error, our services aim is to put the consumer in 
the position theyd be in had that error not occurred. So Im not persuaded that, 
based on how the call was handled, Lloyds ought to refund the money Mr M lost to 
the scam. For the reasons set out above, Ive found that Lloyds isnt liable for this. 
But theres no dispute that the service provided during this call was poor, which I 
accept caused Mr M distress and inconvenience. Im satisfied the compensation 
already paid fairly reflect this. I havent seen anything to substantiate that more is 
fairly due for the upset caused, or for his call costs.
The FCA fines Mr M has referred to (which in any event were levelled against a different 
entity within the Lloyds brand) dont have a bearing on my findings. Nor does the length of 
his customer relationship with Lloyds, or how much money it has. My role is to consider the 
individual merits of his complaint. Whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr M, who 
has lost out to a cruel scam, I dont consider it fair to hold Lloyds liable for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman