DRN-3758895
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In July 2021 Mr A received a call from a person purporting to be from Barclays. Mr A was 
told his Barclays bank account was at risk of being hacked and advised to transfer his funds 
to an account (account X) he had with another bank (bank X). Mr A has explained that the 
person he was speaking to had his personal details and quoted these to him - such as his 
account details and address. And at no point did they ask him to provide any of his personal 
bank account information. Because of this, Mr A says he found what he was told to be 
plausible and so had no reason to think he wasnt dealing with Barclays. 
After receiving one-time passcodes (OTP) from Barclays, Mr A made two payments totalling 
£15,000 to account X. The relevant payments are:
 
Date Time Type Amount
9 July 2021 09:33 Faster payment £5,000
9 July 2021 09:46 Faster payment £10,000
Total: £15,000
Mr A then spoke to a different person  who said they worked for bank X  and £10,000 was 
transferred from it into cryptocurrency. At this point, Mr A realised something was wrong and 
contacted both Barclays and the bank X to block his accounts. Unfortunately, we now know 
that the people Mr A spoke to were scammers. 
Mr A complained to Barclays about how he fell victim to the scam. He wanted to be refunded 
the £10,000 hed lost (as bank X managed to prevent the remaining £5,000 being sent) and 
highlighted concerns about the OTP process which he considered to be flawed.
Barclays didnt agree to reimburse the payment. In short, they said:
They investigated the scam claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM code) but they wouldnt be reimbursing the payment as the funds were sent to 
Mr As own account. 
As the funds went to Mr As own account, the payments werent picked up by their 
fraud detection system.
They were unable to recover any of the funds from bank X.
Although they hadnt been able to discuss Mr As concerns about the OTP process, 
they explained that fraudsters will use various tricks  whether its by phone, letters 
email, text or social media  to deceive.
They apologised for the time it took to respond to the scam case  as it took from 9 
July to 2 September 2021. By way of apology, they credited Mr As account £125. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt 
think Barclays had to do anything. In short, she said:
Although Mr A was tricked, he knew funds were leaving his Barclays account and 
authorised the payments  by using the OTP - to account X.  
She didnt consider the payments wouldve been unusual or suspicious in 
appearance to Barclays based on Mr As normal account usage. This was because 
Mr A sent the funds to an existing payee  an account in his own name that was set 
up in August 2020  which had eight transactions made to it before those as a result 
of the scam. So, this was a known account that Mr A had used before the two 
payments in question happened. Further, Mr A had made a payment of £10,000 on 3 
September 2020 which meant the two payments werent out of character. Because of 
this, she didnt think Barclays shouldve reasonably prevented the transactions from 
happening.
She was satisfied Barclays did what they could to try to recover the money once they 
became aware of the scam.
The CRM code, which came into effect on 28 May 2019 with the aim of providing 
extra protection to consumers from these types of scams, didnt apply to Mr As 
situation. This is because the funds were transferred between two of Mr As own 
accounts. 
Although she understood Mr As disappointment with the OTP process Barclays 
uses, she explained that the Financial Ombudsman doesnt tell firms how to operate. 
Mr A disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, hes added:
The scammers were very professional and familiar with Barclays OTP process. They 
also knew his personal information and so he questions how they obtained this?
Barclays need to take responsibility for the failure of the OTP process. And, after his 
scam took place, Barclays  and other banks  added further security measures to 
prevent this from happening. These measures werent in place at the time he was 
scammed.
These scams have been highlighted in the media of late and, only recently, a known 
actor was scammed in a similar way yet had his funds reimbursed. Why did this actor 
receive his money when he hasnt?
All thefts  regardless of how the scams occurs  should be treated in the same way. 
He doesnt accept that just because there was movement in his account and the 
funds were transferred into another of his own accounts, it makes what happened 
less of a crime. 
This is a considerable amount of money he cant afford to lose.
Before I go on to explain the reasons for my decision, Id like to clarify that Ill only be 
considering Mr As complaint here. So, although I understand Mr A feels very strongly about 
the similarity between how he and the actor hes referred to were scammed, Ill only be 
commenting on what happened to Mr A and whether I think Barclays has acted fairly and 
reasonably. Id like to reassure Mr A that this is in no way because the actors scam is more 
urgent or a greater priority. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr A has been the victim of a scam. I appreciate this has been a very distressing situation and I dont underestimate the impact its had on him as I realise its a 
significant sum hes lost. But, while I know this isnt the outcome Mr A will be hoping for, I 
dont think Barclays has acted unfairly by not refunding his loss for similar reasons to our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this one. But the CRM code is quite 
explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. And it only covers APP scam payments 
when the funds are transferred to another person and not to a consumers own account. In 
this case, Mr A sent the money to account X which is in his own name, before it was 
forwarded on elsewhere as cryptocurrency. It follows that Barclays isnt responsible for 
reimbursing Mr A because of any obligation under the CRM code. Ive therefore considered 
whether Barclays should reimburse Mr A under any of their other obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that 
Mr A knowingly made the payments from his Barclays account. And that, to authorise the 
payments, he completed the OTP process. I appreciate Mr A was tricked by the scammers 
as he believed he was dealing with Barclays at the time. And that he only sent the funds as 
he thought his account was at risk of being hacked. Unfortunately, sophisticated scams like 
this can make the victim feel the circumstances are genuine at the time. Nevertheless, Im 
satisfied the payments were authorised by Mr A. So, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his account, Barclays are expected to process 
the payments and Mr A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Barclays to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr A to Barclays (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity.
The payments were sent to account X  which, as we know, was in Mr As own name held 
with bank X. Account X was set up as an existing payee on Mr As Barclays account in 
August 2020, with multiple transactions made to it in that time. As the payments were made 
to a known account, which Mr A had used previously, I dont think Barclays would 
reasonably have considered payments to it as unusual. I acknowledge the payments  
totalling £15,000  were more than Mr A would typically send to account X. But I have to 
think about whether the payment instructions were so unusual and out of character that its 
reasonable to have expected Barclays to have been concerned there might be a risk of 
financial harm from fraud as a result. Here, there was a long-term link with previous 
payments to account X. And, albeit to a different recipient, Mr A had also made a genuine 
payment from his Barclays account of £10,000 in September 2020. So, taking all of this into 
consideration, I dont think the payment instructions (individually or collectively) were so 
unusual that Id have expected Barclays to have done more before following the instructions 
Mr A gave. 
I realise Mr A feels the above considerations are unfair as he thinks theft should be treated 
equally regardless of how the scam occurred. But, while Ive noted his point on this, Barclays 
are only expected to intervene where there is a reasonable belief that their customer is at 
risk of financial harm from fraud. And, unfortunately, I dont consider the nature of the 
payments  based on typical account activity - wouldve given Barclays any reason to 
consider this in Mr As case.It follows that I think Barclays acted fairly by processing the payments without carrying out 
additional checks. When Barclays became aware of the scam though, I think they took 
reasonable steps to try to recover the funds. Unfortunately, this wasnt possible as the funds 
had been transferred out of account X and so sadly Mr A has lost £10,000.  
I understand Mr A has raised concerns about the OTP process Barclays use as he considers 
it to be flawed. And that, since he was scammed, Barclays  and other banks  have 
implemented additional security measures which werent available to him at the time. Ive 
noted Mr As strength of feeling about this but I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the 
loss hes suffered was because of Barclays or the OTP process. The OTP process provides 
an additional layer of security as a way of preventing fraud by requiring the customer to 
confirm the transaction(s) is legitimate. Unfortunately, scammers become aware of banks 
security measures and so find ways to circumvent them to be able to deceive individuals. 
Because of this, banks have to continuously evolve their security measures in an attempt to 
combat such fraud. Im sympathetic to Mr As situation but I dont think it was a failure of 
Barclays OTP process that led to the scam occurring. Nor do I think the implementation of 
additional security measures by Barclays since it happened means they are responsible for it 
either. 
Im aware Mr A has questioned how the scammers had access to his personal information, 
including bank details. Although we cant be certain how this happened, from the information 
available, it seems that Mr A received a message from a fraudulent delivery company shortly 
before this scam occurred. And he was asked to pay an additional charge which he did. So, 
although the illegitimacy of the message may not have been known to Mr A at the time, this 
is likely how his details  such as banking details and address  were acquired. Although 
unfortunate, I dont think Barclays can be held responsible for this. 
On a final note, Ive considered the compensation Barclays paid for the delay in considering 
the scam case. And although this doesnt undo the loss Mr A has suffered, I think £125 is a 
reasonable amount to recognise the delay. So, I wont be increasing it.
Im sorry to hear Mr A lost the funds to the scammers. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think Barclays have acted unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman