DRN-3366224
The complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation claim he 
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
On 20 November 2020, Mr H booked a trip abroad to a country Ill call M. He was due to 
travel between 12 and 19 April 2021 for a friends wedding. At the time Mr H booked the trip, 
the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) was advising against all but 
essential travel to M due to the risk of Covid-19. However, there were legally permissible 
reasons why a UK national could travel abroad. This list included weddings in certain 
circumstances.
However, on 29 March 2021, the FCDO advice changed. From that point on, travel abroad 
for weddings was only permissible for a UK nationals own wedding. So Mr H cancelled his 
trip and made a claim on his travel insurance policy.
UKI turned down the claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy did cover 
cancellation due to changes in FCDO advice, but only if such advice against travel hadnt 
been in place at the time a trip was booked. In this case, there had been FCDO advice 
against travel to M at the point Mr H booked his trip. So UKI concluded the claim wasnt 
covered.
Mr H was unhappy with UKIs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He felt 
that as the FCDO had been permitting travel to weddings at the time the trip was booked, his 
claim should be covered.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She checked the 
FCDO guidance whichd applied at the time Mr H booked the trip. This stated that UK 
nationals were permitted to travel abroad for the weddings of family members, as this was 
considered essential travel. As Mr H hadnt been travelling abroad for the wedding of a 
family member, she was persuaded that the FCDO advice against travel to M had applied at 
the time he arranged the trip. So she felt itd been fair for UKI to turn down his claim.
Mr H disagreed. He maintained that thered been a clear change in government advice on 29 
March 2021, which had led to the cancellation of the trip. And he said the rules hadnt limited 
essential travel to the weddings of family members only.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, I think it was fair for UKI to turn down his 
claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Hs policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether UKI treated him 
fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with UKI. I appreciate that when Mr H opened his packaged account, the 
circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have been foreseen by either 
policyholders or insurers. 
But no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what 
level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, UKIs 
obligations under its contract with Mr H are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions 
which are set out in the policy. Mr H didnt take out an all-risks policy. This means that UKI 
has set out the specific, listed insured events its chosen to cover if a policyholder has to 
cancel their holiday.
One of the listed events UKI covers in the event of cancellation is:
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advising against All Travel or All but essential 
travel to your intended destination, providing the advice came into force after you 
opened your Platinum account or booked your trip (whichever was the later) and was in 
the 28 days before your departure on your trip. (Emphasis added.)
I think the policy makes it clear that UKI will cover cancellation due to the FCDO advising 
against all but essential travel to a policyholders destination, so long as that advice wasnt in 
place at the point a holiday was booked. This isnt an uncommon  most travel insurance 
policies which provide cover for cancellation in the event of a change to FCDO advice will 
only do so if the advice wasnt in force at the time a trip was booked. 
Theres no dispute that Mr H cancelled his trip because the government changed its advice 
regarding what constituted essential travel for a wedding. However, I need to bear in mind 
the relevant timeline of events. On 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised against all but 
essential travel abroad as a result of Covid-19. And at the point Mr H booked the trip to M, 
on 20 November 2020, the FCDO was still advising against all but essential travel to it.  
I appreciate that Mr H says that when he booked the trip, the FCDO did consider travel for 
weddings to be essential international travel and it was the change in this advice which led 
to the cancellation of his trip. Hes provided a copy of the declaration form hed have needed 
to complete in order to travel, which Ive carefully considered.
But Ive also looked closely at the prevailing UK government rules which applied prior to 29 
March 2021 and which applied at the time Mr H booked the trip. Our investigator previously 
provided Mr H with a link to this information. The rules say:
Permitted reasons for international travel  up to 29 March 2021.
Weddings, civil partnerships, funerals and related events
To attend a wedding or civil partnership of a family member. (Emphasis added).
In my view, the rules made it clear that international travel for weddings was permitted if the wedding was for a travellers family member. Mr H has told us and UKI that he was travelling 
for a friends wedding. So while I understand why attending the wedding wouldve been 
important to Mr H, it seems he wasnt travelling for the wedding of a family member. This 
means I dont think his travel plans wouldve fallen within the legally permissible travel 
reason Ive set out above  or that the UK government wouldve classed his trip as essential.
So in these circumstances, I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that there was FCDO advice 
against all but essential travel to M at the point Mr H booked his trip. And that even at the 
point of trip booking, his travel plans wouldnt have been classed as essential travel or a 
legally permissible reason to travel. His policy doesnt cover cancellation in this scenario. 
And its for this reason that I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that the claim isnt covered 
by the cancellation section of the policy.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr Hs position, I find UKI acted fairly when it turned down 
his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman