DRN-2288633
The complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Insurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably by declining 
his claim under a legal expenses insurance policy. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr T had a legal expenses insurance policy with Aviva as part of his household insurance. 
Mr T stayed in a hotel which advertised itself as having a secure carpark, but had to park in 
a different car park as the hotels was full. Mr Ts car was vandalised, and he wanted to sue 
the hotel for several reasons.
Mr T made a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy for legal assistance. Mr Ts 
claim was declined after legal advice was given by a panel solicitor that it didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success. Mr T said that the advice was based on a selective 
reading of the evidence and he said he paid for a second opinion which said his claim had a 
55-60% prospect of success. Aviva asked the panel solicitor to get an advocate to review the 
claim. Mr T felt this was unethical or fair he was only given three choices of advocate from 
the same stable to carry out the review, and his choice was known to the panel solicitor, 
which he thought meant that they couldnt be impartial. The review didnt support Mr Ts 
position. Mr T added that he thought the lawyers used by Aviva didnt understand the 
relevant law. Mr T felt the whole process took too long and meant that his car couldnt be 
repaired promptly.
Mr T complained to Aviva. It said that Mr Ts complaint about the panel solicitors wasnt 
justified. It pointed out that the opinion Mr T had obtained wasnt on headed notepaper from 
a law firm, but it had paid for a review in order to be fair. Aviva pointed out that Mr T had 
chosen the review lawyer from the options available, and it was an insurer, not a firm of 
lawyers. It said it was entitled to rely on advice given by suitably qualified lawyers and Mr T 
could pursue the matter himself.
Mr T complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He said it was fair and reasonable for disputes over legal advice given in these 
circumstances to be referred to another suitably qualified lawyer to review. In Mr Ts case, 
the investigator noted that suitably qualified lawyers had given the original advice and 
reviewed the matter, and all the evidence Mr T had sent had been available to those 
lawyers. He said that it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to rely on the advice given and 
Mr T had chosen the review lawyer; the investigator added that there were no obvious errors 
within her advice and this service couldnt comment on arguments over legal principles.
Mr T didnt agree. He said Aviva was going to have to pay the repair costs under a motor 
insurance policy so it should ensure costs were at a minimum, despite accepting the legal 
expenses policy was separate. The investigator didnt change his view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The legal expenses policy is separate to the motor insurance policy Mr T holds, so much of 
his response to the investigators view doesnt assist, though I can understand why he 
believes theres a connection. 
Aviva isnt a law firm; its an insurer. This means that its fair and reasonable for it rely on 
legal advice given by suitably qualified lawyers, provided that it isnt obviously wrong when 
read by a layman or contains obvious errors. Mr T also hasnt challenged the point that the 
policy does require his claim to have reasonable prospects of success, which means more 
likely than not to be successful (this service would say 51% or more chance of success).
The panel solicitor and the review lawyer are both suitably qualified lawyers. The lawyer who 
gave a written opinion to Mr T set out her experience, which is appropriate, though she has 
not provided her opinion on the headed paper of her law firm, which is unusual. That said, 
Aviva was willing to accept the opinion as triggering its review process. The process is set 
out below:
If you do not agree with our lawyer's opinion and you find a different lawyer, at your own 
cost, or you already have a lawyer who supports your view, then we will be happy to offer a 
review of the case. The opinion of your chosen lawyer must be based on the same 
information regarding the claim that you provided to us. The lawyer conducting the review 
will be chosen jointly by you and us. If we cannot agree on who this lawyer should be then 
we will ask a relevant law society to appoint one. The reviewing lawyer will assess the case 
and we will abide by their decision. We will pay for the cost of this review and should they 
decide in your favour we will also pay any cost that you incurred for your chosen lawyer's 
second opinion.
Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in accepting the opinion Mr T got and paying for a review 
from an Advocate (a Scottish barrister). Both the panel solicitor and the review lawyer set out 
in detail why their opinion was that Mr Ts claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success. Having read those opinions, I cant say that theyre obviously wrong, even when I 
look at the opinion Mr T got and his comments. So, I think Aviva acted fairly and reasonably 
in relying on the opinions of the panel solicitor and the review lawyer, and under the review 
process, it acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim and not paying for Mr Ts legal 
opinion.
Mr T says that theres a conflict of interest as the panel solicitor knows the advocate who 
reviewed his claim. I disagree. Conflicts of interest are a professional matter and Im aware 
Mr T has made a complaint to the Scottish authorities; theres no evidence before me that 
the complaint has been upheld. Also, solicitors generally only instruct barristers who are 
known to them or their firm, but the Codes of Conduct for lawyers is clear that legal advice is 
given on the basis of the evidence and the law, not relationships. And theres nothing wrong 
in giving Mr T the opportunity to pick from a list of advocates from the same stable  each 
are independent of each other. Mr T has said he attended the same place as the solicitor 
and the advocate and couldve checked this point before selecting the advocate if he was 
concerned.
In relation to the time taken, I see that Mr T has been repeatedly advised by Aviva and its 
agents and lawyers to use his motor policy to get his car repaired. It was his choice to 
decline, but I cant find Aviva responsible for such delays. I dont think it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in dealing with the claim  the advice was given within a reasonable timeframe and Aviva promptly responded to Mr T and his queries, even during a global pandemic.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 
8 March 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman