DRN-2148322
The complaint
Mr T complains that TSB Bank plc blocked his access to his account, and despite his best 
efforts, didnt unblock it for several weeks.
What happened
Mr T said that he rang TSB to pay a bill, in May 2018. Part of the way through the call, he 
was cut off. He rang back, and was told a fraud block had been placed on his account. 
Mr T said he was given conflicting information about how to get this block removed. He was 
first told he had to contact his local branch, but when he did, he was told to phone a number. 
He spent weeks trying to contact it, but there was never any answer. 
During the time that his account was blocked, Mr T said he could only get £100 in cash by 
visiting the branch. Mr T said hed had to borrow a considerable amount of money from 
family members to cover his living expenses. Hed also wanted to go on holiday during this 
time, but he couldnt access his money, and he couldnt borrow for that.
Mr T said TSB had paid him £150, made up of £100 in compensation and £50 for expenses. 
He didnt think that was fair. And he said he wanted to hear the call on which hed allegedly 
failed security, because he didnt think hed got anything wrong. TSB initially agreed to send 
this call recording, but now says it wasnt recorded. 
TSB said that it had blocked Mr Ts account because he failed to identify himself over the 
phone. It said this had now been removed. It was sorry it hadnt called him back when it had 
agreed to, and that hed waited a long time when he called. It was also sorry hed spent his 
evenings and weekends trying to sort this out.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr T had no access 
to his money for three and a half weeks. TSB hadnt taken the block off his account when it 
shouldve done. And it hadnt provided help to him with the problems he was having. She 
said it was particularly relevant that this was Mr Ts only bank account. So she thought 
TSBs offer of £150 wasnt enough, and it should pay Mr T a total of £500.
Mr T didnt agree. He didnt think the compensation amount was fair. So this case was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall decision on this complaint as our investigator.
Its not clear exactly how long Mr Ts account was blocked for. After this case was passed to 
me for decision, TSB wrote to us to say that blocks were placed on Mr Ts account on 14 
April. Thats consistent with what I can see noted on his account. TSB said blocks were then 
removed on 26 May, which was earlier than our investigator thought. It also said that Mr T 
had provided ID once before this, and that was added to its system on 21 May. 
So Mr T did show ID at a branch of TSB on 21 May, but that doesnt appear to have 
unblocked his account. And the notes that TSB provided suggest that the matter was 
escalated on 26 May and Mr T was authorised to take £100 from his account then. That 
doesnt seem consistent with what TSB says, that the account was unblocked on that date.
TSBs internal notes suggest that it considered the problem with Mr Ts account had a 
relatively modest effect on him. I dont think thats right. 
TSB also thought that many of the problems that Mr T experienced were because hed failed 
security. Although it hasnt been able to show Mr T that he did make some mistakes in 
responding to his security questions, I dont think that its failing security which is the key 
issue here. I think most of the problems that Mr T experienced were because he wasnt able 
to get the block lifted from his account promptly.
Mr T has told us that this is the only bank that he has any accounts with. Like our 
investigator, I also think its important that Mr T doesnt have another current account. 
Mr T has also told us that he did what he was told to do when his card was blocked, which 
was to go into a branch with ID. I would expect that Mr Ts account would then have been 
unblocked. But it wasnt. He was told to phone, which he said he did repeatedly. Again, this 
is consistent with what we know about TSBs phone availability at the time. I know that this 
was beyond TSBs control, but that doesnt reduce the impact that this had on Mr T. So I 
think its likely that Mr T did make repeated efforts to remove the blocks from his account, 
and that these werent successful until early June. 
Mr T said that he had to borrow money to meet his basic living expenses when he had no 
access to his TSB account. I can see that Mr T regularly withdraws some of his salary in 
cash. I can also see that he wasnt able to withdraw anything like his usual amounts during 
the time that a fraud block was on his account. And once the block was withdrawn, he 
withdrew a larger than usual amount. All this is consistent with what Mr T told us about 
needing to borrow money from family to meet ordinary living expenses while he didnt have 
access to his account. But once the block was removed, Mr T then took out money for a 
holiday. If Mr T took holiday as soon as the block was removed, then it seems less likely that 
he missed out entirely on the opportunity to take a holiday because of what TSB did.
Even if Mr T didnt miss out entirely on the opportunity to take a holiday, he still had to 
manage for some weeks without free access to his own money. He also had to spend a very 
considerable amount of time, including at least two visits to a branch, trying to sort this issue 
out. For these reasons, I agree with our investigator that the payment of £150 that TSB has 
made isnt enough to make up for whats gone wrong in this case. 
I think TSB should pay £350 now, in addition to what it has already paid. I know that Mr T 
doesnt think thats enough, but our service considers that a substantial award. I think that 
would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mr T £350, in addition to the £150 it has 
already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman