DRN-1637224
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr G bought a PPI policy when he took out a Halifax mortgage in 2004. The policy was sold 
in a meeting at a Halifax branch. It was part of a wider insurance package called a Total 
Mortgage Protection Policy (TMPP). The PPI element of this package gave Mr G cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagreed, so the case 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
The sale took place a long time ago. And, perhaps understandably, BoS doesnt still have 
much of the paperwork completed at the time. But its provided a copy of a declaration which 
Mr G signed when he took out his mortgage. This includes a section which refers to the 
TMPP in terms which would seem to suggest that he could have taken out a mortgage 
without buying this policy. 
BoS has also provided screenshots from its computer systems which record the answers 
that Mr G gave to questions he was asked at the time about his personal circumstances. 
These were to check his eligibility and suitability for the TMPP. And Ive previously seen 
copies of the paperwork BoS used at around the time of this sale and know that its normal 
sales process would have been to discuss PPI cover with a customer and to then obtain 
their consent to the policy being set up for them.
Mr G says that BoS said that he should agree to take out the PPI policy and that the 
mortgage approval process would be speeded up if he did so. So he says he was 
pressurised into taking a policy which he didnt need. Its possible that the BoS advisor did 
unfairly pressurise Mr G to take out the policy in the way he has described. But I need to 
bear in mind that this all took place over fifteen years ago and memories of such discussions 
do tend to fade over time. So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that this is what 
happened, based only on what Mr G thinks he remembers now.Based on the limited information available, I think its more likely than not that Mr G was 
aware at the time that the PPI was optional and that he actively decided to take out this 
cover. But I can understand why he might not be able to recall this now.
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr G. And from what Ive seen, I think thats most likely 
to have been the case. This means that it had to ensure that the policy was suitable for him. 
I dont know all the steps it took to do this. But from what I know of his circumstances at the 
time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
Mr G appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
limitations and exclusions.
 
Mr G says the cover provided by the policy wasnt necessary given his circumstances 
at the time. He says he was eligible for very generous sick pay and also had a 
significant level of savings. But this policy would have paid out in addition to any 
other means he had available at the time. It could have covered his repayments for 
up to twenty-four months if he couldnt work because of an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment, where ones home is 
potentially at risk if repayments cant be made. So I still think that Mr G would have 
valued the extra security the policy gave him.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable. And as the premium was paid 
monthly, he could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met his needs. 
 
BoS also needed to give Mr G enough information for him to decide whether or not to take 
out the policy. I think its quite possible that the information he received could have been 
better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable 
for him, I dont think better information would have changed his mind about buying it. I think 
hed still have thought the policy gave him useful protection at an affordable price.
So from what Ive seen, I dont think that Mr G has lost out by anything that BoS may have 
done wrong when it sold him this policy.
But before Mr G complained to us that hed been mis-sold his PPI policy, BoS had already 
paid Mr G £559.58 in compensation. This payment was in relation to the commission and 
profit share which it received on the PPI premiums Mr G paid. And I think that this payment 
is fair.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman