DRN-3836341
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) has made a series of errors in handling his 
accounts and in how it has dealt with his complaints.
What happened
The details of this complaint as well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. The key facts are:
- Mr H received a text message from BoS saying a payment was due on his credit card 
when he had already made the payment
- Mr H raised a complaint about this issue and was then unhappy with how BoS 
handled that complaint
- While looking into Mr Hs complaint BoS discovered it held some incorrect contact 
information for Mr H, and Mr H added this issue to his complaint about BoS
- Mr H received a call from someone acting on behalf of the bank which he felt was 
suspicious and poorly handled; he raised a further complaint about this issue
- Mr H has also noted his unhappiness with how BoS dealt with a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR) he made, its general complaint process, its record keeping 
regarding complaints, and the overall way its systems are managed
- BoS looked into Mr Hs concerns and, in total, paid him £650 to recognise that it had 
made some errors
Mr H was unhappy with BoS response, so he referred his complaint to us, and one of our 
Investigators looked at what had happened. Ultimately though, they did not think BoS 
needed to do anything more. They found that, overall, while BoS had made some errors, it 
had paid Mr H appropriate compensation for what had gone wrong.
Mr H did not agree with the Investigators findings, so as no agreement could be reached, 
his complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, but Ill explain why 
Ive reached the conclusions I have, and I hope that Mr H will at least feel that his concerns 
have been listened to.
Firstly, although I have only summarised the background and arguments above, I would like 
to assure both parties that I have read and considered everything provided. I wont 
necessarily be detailing every event or point of contention, but that doesnt mean that Ive 
not thought very carefully about everything that has led us to this point.
Its clear from what both sides have said that BoS did make some errors here. Specifically, 
BoS identified three main areas where it felt it had failed Mr H in some way.
Firstly, BoS has agreed that it could have handled his initial complaint about the text 
message he received better. BoS offered Mr H £100 to recognise the poor service he 
received, and also explained why Mr H had received the text message in the first place  
namely that the payment he had made was still being processed when the message had 
been sent. I understand that Mr H feels the initial staff member he spoke to didnt properly 
record why he was unhappy, but Im satisfied that overall Mr Hs complaint was appropriately 
handled and responded to. And it is for BoS to decide how it records complaints internally. 
BoS has also agreed that it had incorrect contact information on file for Mr H. Following this 
issue BoS also agreed that it could have handled Mr Hs DSAR more quickly and 
acknowledged that there were issues with providing phone calls in the format Mr H had 
requested. BoS paid Mr H £450 to recognise the impact of its failings here. The incorrect 
contact details will undoubtedly have caused Mr H concern, but BoS fixed this issue as soon 
as it came to light, and theres nothing to suggest that Mr H experienced any specific 
detriment as a result of this incorrect data being held. So Im satisfied that the offer BoS 
made to resolve this part of Mr Hs complaint was appropriate in the circumstances. Mr H 
has said he feels this complaint should have been added to his previous complaint rather 
than being set up as a new complaint by BoS. But as Ive noted above, it is for BoS to decide 
how it wishes to record complaints.
Lastly, BoS has agreed that the call Mr H received  which was from a survey company 
acting on BoS behalf  could have been better handled. Specifically, it agreed that the staff 
member Mr H spoke to didnt make it clear who they were calling from and BoS 
acknowledged that this caused Mr H some concern that the call wasnt genuine. BoS has 
paid Mr H £100 to recognise the impact of this poor service, and once again I consider that 
to be a reasonable amount of compensation in the circumstances. I acknowledge that Mr H 
was then unhappy that he appeared to have been excluded from receiving any further 
similar calls asking for feedback on any further interactions with BoS. But theres no 
obligation on BoS to survey its customers in this way, and it is for BoS to decide when and 
how it wishes to survey its customers. 
Mr H has also noted that BoS didnt keep him updated throughout the complaints process, 
but from looking at the correspondence thats taken place Im satisfied that although there 
were some incidences of BoS not providing updates exactly when it said it would, overall, 
BoS did update him appropriately. There were delays in dealing with his DSAR but BoS has 
already compensated him for that.
Looking at everything that has happened here, Im satisfied that BoS has resolved Mr Hs 
complaint fairly. Its clear that Mr H is very unhappy with how BoS operates. But as our 
Investigator explained, we are not the regulator; it is not our role to tell businesses to change 
their systems or processes. Our role is to look at individual complaints and to ensure that 
things are put right for that particular complainant when something has gone wrong. In 
Mr Hs case there were some errors on BoS part, but BoS has offered appropriate 
compensation to recognise the impact of those errors. And I must bear in mind that the 
impact here did not involve any financial loss, so our compensation reflects only the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr H. I appreciate that Mr H says he has devoted considerable 
time and effort to pursuing this complaint, but given that Im satisfied BoS responses to his 
complaints have been reasonable, and that it has, overall, treated him fairly, I dont think 
BoS needs to do anything more. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman