DRN-3135912
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the way that Ageas Insurance Limited dealt with their home 
insurance claim for vehicle impact damage to their home.  
What happened
In November 2019 a neighbours car crashed into their property, causing considerable 
damage. Mr and Mrs D made a claim to Ageas who appointed loss adjusters to deal with the 
claim. Mr and Mrs D are elderly and have major health issues, particularly Mrs D. It was 
decided that the property was unsafe for them to live until the structure and electrics could 
be made safe. They were sent to a hotel for the first night. Unfortunately it seems the hotel 
didnt arrange the booking properly as result of which they were put in an unsuitable room.  
They returned to the property the next day, and Ageas negotiated with their next door 
neighbour, who was helping them, for suitable longer term accommodation.
Mr and Mrs D wanted to stay in their own property over Christmas, then an initial 10 week 
stay in a hotel was organised for them to start in January 2020 while the works were carried 
out. As the works progressed Mr D visited the property a number of times and raised various 
issues, some of which were dealt with. However in March 2020 Mr and Mrs D were told they 
had to self-isolate and work had to stop.  The contractors said the works were complete save 
for the internal door between the garage and the house. The wrong door had been delivered 
and as it was a bespoke door, it was thought best to wait until the same supplier was able to 
redeliver it. The contractors fitted a temporary door. It would appear however that Mr and 
Mrs D didnt return home until June 2020. The works were not complete and there was a 
substantial list of items that needed to be rectified. Works were able to recommence in July 
2020, but Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with the contractors and asked them to leave the site.
Mr and Mrs D demanded that Ageas appoint new contractors and loss adjusters. Ageas was 
willing to consider the appointment of new contractors. Mr and Mrs D set out the details of 
the issues with the work in December 2020. Ageas had problems in trying to get 
confirmation from the contractors as to what was outstanding. Eventually it wrote to Mr and 
Mrs D in March 2021 setting out the issues that needed to be rectified. It said the contractors 
would have reduced their invoice by £1,140 including VAT to account for these matters. It 
proposed to pay that to Mr and Mrs D as a cash settlement. It proposed to pay an additional 
£360 to reflect the delay in resolving the matter and for them having to appoint their own 
contractors.
Mr and Mrs D had made a complaint to this service and indicated that they didnt want to 
have to appoint their own contractors. I understand that since then, Ageas has reached an 
agreement with Mr and Mrs D over the scope of the outstanding work and over the 
appointment of new contractors, loss adjusters and surveyor.
On referral to this service our investigator ultimately thought that because of the delays, poor 
work, Mr D having to get involved in sorting out the matter and taking into account their 
vulnerabilities, Ageas should pay £750 compensation.
Ageas didnt agree, and Mr and Mrs D thought the amount proposed was too low.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
alternative accommodation (AA)
Mr and Mrs D were immediately placed into AA following the incident. They had complex 
needs but I understand the hotel told Ageas agent it could address those needs. Regrettably 
when they arrived at the hotel it had failed to make the booking, and as a result they were 
placed in basement room with no disabled facilities. I can understand that this was very 
upsetting for them. However the problem wasnt raised with Ageas at the time and by the 
time it became aware of it Mr and Mrs D had moved back home. 
As to the AA that was then arranged, Mr and Mrs D say they were offered unsuitable AA. I 
understand that this was agreed through negotiations with their neighbour who was able to 
advise Ageas agents as to what was and what was not suitable. Bearing in mind that there 
is a policy limit for AA, I think it was reasonable to explore the option of a let property. As far 
as I can see once it was explained that the property on offer wasnt an option, Ageas agreed 
to the hotel stay which did have all the facilities Mr and Mrs D needed. I understand that they 
compromised by agreeing to share a room, but I think that Ageas acted reasonably in this 
regard.
poor work
I understand that Mr D is a retired building contractor. He was frequently on site. This 
unfortunately caused health and safety difficulties and slowed up the work for the 
contractors. Having said that, there were issues with the double glazed windows which 
needed to be replaced. There were also, following the near completion of the work in March 
2021, a number of snagging issues. Its difficult to stand back objectively and say that this 
was such poor work that Mr and Mrs D were justified in dismissing the contractors. My view 
is that snagging issues are to be expected. Probably in this case there were more such 
issues than should have been expected. Nevertheless it would have been reasonable to 
expect Ageas to have the opportunity to put things right, and I dont think that really 
happened in this case.
delays
Mr and Mrs D say that there were substantial delays resulting meaning that, at the stage of 
this matter being referred to me for a decision, the work still hadnt been completed.
There were delays in this case, in particular the builders did no work for three months 
because of the Covid lockdown and Mr and Mrs D having to self-isolate. Further delays were 
caused because Mr and Mrs D dismissed the contractors. Had they allowed them to 
continue this might have been resolved.
But I think there were delays caused by Ageas.  In particular Mr and Mrs D appear to have 
spent three months in hotel accommodation while the builders werent working at the 
property. I cant see why this happened  its seems that there was some 
miscommunication. Secondly, Ageas was aware by September 2020 that Mr and Mrs D 
didnt want the contractors to return. However a full list of snagging issues wasnt provided 
by Mr and Mrs D until early December 2020. Ageas seems to have had a lot of difficulty 
communicating with the contractors and in agreeing what the issues were and what they were responsible for. It wasnt able to put such a list to Mr and Mrs D until March 2021. 
Theyd already made a complaint to us by this time and our investigator had to become 
involved in the negotiating over this. I think its fair to look at the issues up until Ageas letter 
to Mr and Mrs D of 8 March 2021. Although that wasnt a final response letter, it did set out 
what Ageas position was.
So I agree that there were delays, not all of them caused by Ageas, but enough to cause 
Mr and Mrs D a fair degree of inconvenience.
compensation
I have found this difficult to assess. Mr and Mrs D both have significant medical issues, and I 
can see that they had problems in staying in an unfinished house. I understand that the 
internal temporary door wasnt sufficient to stop cold and car fumes coming from the garage. 
I dont think Ageas was wrong to install a temporary door, given the difficulties (partly caused 
by Covid) in getting the new door. However this issue wasnt raised until after March 2021 
(although Mr D did explain that the property was cold). I also understand that Mr and Mrs D 
had to employ their own builder to resolve some issues. In regard to their staying three 
months in hotel accommodation with the builders off site, I can understand their frustration. 
Overall, I take into account the difficulties (particularly bearing their health issues in mind) 
caused to Mr and Mrs D by having to live in an unfinished house and the delays in Ageas 
proposing a resolution. I think the appropriate award of compensation is £750. I would 
emphasise that this only takes matters up to March 2021. 
Putting things right
Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs D £750 compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs D £750 
compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman