DRN-4489606
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when it 
approved his credit card application and later increased the credit limit on several occasions. 
What happened
Mr C opened a credit card with Santander in September 2002 and was given a £2,000 credit 
limit. The credit limit increased to £2,700 in September 2003, £3,200 in February 2005, 
£4,450 in May 2008, £6,350 in September 2009, £10,350 in February 2014 and £11,850 in 
March 2016. 
Mr C used the credit card, repaying the balance at times. In 2022 the account fell into 
arrears and was closed. 
Earlier this year, Mr C complained that Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
credit card application and went on to increase his credit limit in stages. Barclaycard issued 
a final response and said it wasnt able to look at lending decisions that had taken place 
more than six years from the date Mr C complained. Barclaycard added that the March 2016 
credit limit increase had been correctly approved in line with its lending criteria after 
obtaining information from the credit reference agencies. Barclaycard didnt uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. 
Representatives acting on Mr Cs behalf referred his complaint to this service and it was 
passed to an investigator. They reviewed the available information but explained that due to 
the length of time since Mr C originally applied for a credit card, Barclaycard was unable to 
supply evidence to show what it found. Barclaycard added it didnt have records going back 
before the March 2016 credit limit increase either. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded that Barclaycard had failed to carry out reasonable 
checks before increasing Mr Cs credit limit in March 2016 and didnt uphold his complaint. 
Representatives acting for Mr C forwarded copies of his bank statements from 2018 and 
asked to appeal. As a result, Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
Here, were limited in terms of the level of investigation we can complete due to the passage 
of time. Mr C first applied for a credit card with Barclaycard in September 2002 and no 
records exist from that time. In much the same way, theres no evidence available to show 
the checks or information Barclaycard used when completing the credit limit increases prior 
to March 2016. Again, thats because Barclaycard no longer has those records. Businesses 
arent obliged to retain information indefinitely and Im satisfied that Barclaycard no longer 
has evidence to show the lending checks completed prior to March 2016. 
I appreciate Mr C feels the decision to approve his application in September 2002 and 
increase the credit limit in the years that followed was irresponsible. But I havent been given 
any evidence by either Barclaycard or Mr C that predates March 2016. Without evidence to 
show Mr Cs circumstances at the time, Im unable to conclude Barclaycard lent 
irresponsibly. I think its fair to say that Barclaycard wouldve most likely taken Mr Cs 
ongoing payment history into account along with information on his credit file when 
increasing the credit limit. And I think the account history available shows Mr C managed the 
credit card in line with the terms. Overall, I havent been persuaded Barclaycard lent 
irresponsibly when it approved his credit card application and later increased the credit limit. 
Barclaycard has supplied the evidence behind its decision to increase the credit limit to 
£11,850 in March 2016 as the information remains on file. I can see that Barclaycard looked 
at Mr Cs credit file and obtained information about his unsecured borrowing and mortgage 
costs. Barclaycard has shown it factored those costs into its lending assessment. 
Barclaycard has also confirmed it checked Mr Cs income level against benchmark data 
provided by a credit reference agency and took outgoings figures into account as well. 
Barclaycard has explained Mr Cs payments had been maintained in line with the credit 
agreement in the months before the credit limit was increased. Overall, Im satisfied 
Barclaycard carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before taking the decision to 
increase Mr Cs credit limit to £11,850. I havent been persuaded that Barclaycard should 
have obtained further evidence from Mr C before proceeding or that it lent irresponsibly. 
I note Mr Cs representatives sent some copies of his bank statements from 2018. But the 
last credit limit increase took place in March 2016 so the statements dont show what 
Barclaycard wouldve found if it had asked Mr C for bank statements at that time. I note Mr 
Cs representatives said they intended to submit a credit file. But we didnt hear back from 
Mr Cs representatives with any further information by the dates given. Im satisfied we have 
sufficient information on file to reach a fair decision in this case. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr C but as I havent found evidence that shows Barclaycard lent 
irresponsibly Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman