DRN-2129170
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when he 
complained about a disputed transaction.
  
What happened
 Mr C complained about a payment of £4000 which was paid to a company  J.  J 
was a car dealership and the transaction was made some days after Mr Cs wife had 
purchased a car from J.  Mr C said he had authorised a payment of £200 over the 
phone  but had not authorised the £4000 taken some days later.
When he complained to HSBC, HSBC provided him with a temporary credit of £4000 
and looked into matters for him.
In its submissions to this service, HSBC told us it did not think it had compelling 
evidence with which to proceed to a chargeback request in relation to the 
transaction.  The claims and documents were contradictory and so it reversed the 
credit of £4000 and rejected Mr Cs complaint.
During this time, Mr C had removed the temporary credit from his account.  This led 
the account falling into an overdraft and subsequently a debt which was sold onto a 
third-party debt company  A.
A then pursued the debts through the courts.  Mr C produced a copy of two court 
orders from 2019 which show the following:
-judgement had been entered against Mr C in relation to the debt  but then 
set aside
-whilst Mr C was named as the defendant in proceedings, he was seeking an 
indemnity from J against any findings made
-at the trial, there was only part judgement for A in the sum of £386.95.  As 
legal representative was not fully instructed in relation to the trial, so they had 
to withdraw and the remainder of the claim against Mr C was dismissed.
Essentially, Mr C won his case at court but there had been no exploration of the 
merits.
Mr C then complained again to HSBC.  He said the court order proved the debt was 
not owed and he wanted to be compensated for the impact this had had on his credit 
file and his life in general.
In a final response issued in November 2019, HSBC rejected Mr Cs complaint 
again.  It said it was satisfied that it had made no errors.
So, Mr C came to this service.
Our investigator thought HSBC should have done more for Mr C.  At the time of the 
original dispute, it should have carried out a chargeback.  She thought there was 
enough evidence for it to do so.  She thought it should pay Mr C £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
But Mr C was not happy with this response.  Amongst other things, he wanted a 
written apology from HSBC, a written explanation of what had gone wrong, a 
recommendation to avoid similar problems happening in the future and a financial 
award.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the matter came to me, I thought a fair and reasonable sum for compensation 
here was £1000.  I explained why to both Mr C and HSBC.  Neither side agreed with 
me and made further submissions. Ive considered them carefully before coming to 
my final decision.
I can understand Mr Cs frustrations.  It has taken a number of years and 
considerable time and effort for him to achieve the outcome he thought was justified 
in the first place.
A chargeback request is not set out in law  in other words there is no requirement 
for HSBC to carry one out.  However, it was (and still is) good industry practice for it 
to do so.  So, it is fair and reasonable to have expected HSBC to do just that when 
Mr C complained.  It did not.
What this then led to is HSBC removing the credit from Mr Cs account.  But by then, 
Mr C had already withdrawn his £4000 so his account fell into an overdraft which 
HSBC sought to recover  first by itself and then by selling it onto agents.
Mr C spent a considerable time and effort defending this claim through the courts  
and whilst I acknowledge he may have contributed to the situation by withdrawing 
the funds, I accept the sense of injustice he would have felt at the time.
Mr C hasnt told this service what he thinks is a fair sum to compensate him for what 
has happened  but I have carefully considered what he has said in response to the 
offer of £1000.  Its not my role to punish HSBC for any wrongdoing  but simply to 
decide whether HSBC had done anything wrong in how it dealt with his complaint.
I think it did and I think an award of £1000 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
  Putting things right
 HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr C £1000 for the distress and inconvenience caused in him 
pursuing this complaint. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman