DRN-2774730
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy about information provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) 
during visits under her home emergency policy.
What happened
British Gas carried out an annual service on Mrs Ls boiler under her British Gas HomeCare 
policy. During the visit, the engineer said her central heating system needed a powerflush. A 
few days later, the boiler stopped working. So, another engineer visited to fix the boiler. 
During that visit, Mrs L discussed the powerflush with the engineer.
Mrs L complained to British Gas that her boiler stopped working very shortly after its annual 
service and that the annual service had been delayed by six months. She wanted an 
explanation for this. Mrs L also said that the engineer hadnt explained that the powerflush 
lifetime guarantee required Mrs L to continue to have a HomeCare policy for it to be valid.
British Gas spoke to Mrs L on the phone and explained that a boiler could fail at any time. It 
said that the powerflush hadnt been mis-sold to Mrs L because she hadnt yet agreed to the 
powerflush and it hadnt taken place.
Mrs L then agreed to the powerflush and it took place several days later.
Mrs L complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that it 
wasnt clear what was discussed during the engineers visits, but it was clear that Mrs L was 
aware of the terms and conditions of the powerflush before she agreed to it taking place.
As Mrs L did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 9 March 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
When Mrs L complained that her boiler had stopped working, she said that it had been 
serviced six months later than it should have been. Ive looked at the dates of the service 
and can see that the annual service visit that forms part of this complaint took place more 
than a year after the previous one. Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of the policy 
and these described an annual service as:
a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your gas boiler, appliance or central 
heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with the relevant laws and regulations.
So, the terms and conditions said that an annual service would take place during each 
period of agreement, not every twelve months. Ive looked at when the annual services took 
place and can see that the first service took place during one period of agreement and that 
the second service took place during the next period of agreement. Although, this was more 
than 12 months after the previous service, Im satisfied that British Gas carried out the 
annual services in line with the terms and conditions.
Mrs L has said an engineer told her that there was a lifetime guarantee if the powerflush was 
carried out by British Gas. However, she was unhappy that the engineer didnt tell her she 
would need to have the HomeCare policy in place for the guarantee to remain valid. 
Im aware that Mrs L has said the engineer should have discussed the full details with her 
during his visit, including how the lifetime guarantee worked. She also said that she didnt 
have time to read the small print of policies due to her personal circumstances. 
Ive looked at what happened and can see that, shortly after the second engineers visit, Mrs 
L complained about the engineer not fully explaining the powerflush terms and conditions 
and that he hadnt made her aware of the need to continue to have the policy in place. This 
was before Mrs L agreed to the powerflush and several days before the powerflush itself 
took place. 
I dont know exactly what was discussed during the engineers visits. But, the discussions 
with the engineers didnt commit Mrs L to having the powerflush. The engineers also 
provided Mrs L with a written quote for the powerflush. Mrs L seems to have been aware of 
how the lifetime guarantee worked because this was the basis of her complaint when she 
contacted British Gas shortly after the visit. So, I think the engineers provided Mrs L with 
information about the terms and conditions of the powerflush, even if they didnt explain all of 
the details during their visits. Im also satisfied that after talking to the engineers Mrs L had 
the opportunity to contact British Gas with any queries or concerns before making a 
decision.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or require 
British Gas to do anything further.
Im aware that Mrs L has said she is unhappy that the lifetime guarantee for the powerflush 
required her to have a HomeCare policy and that it should have a guarantee regardless. 
However, I cant look at this part of the complaint. The powerflush itself is a product that is 
charged for outside of the HomeCare policy. It isnt an insurance product and so doesnt 
come within the remit of this service.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 8 April 2021.
Mrs L didnt provide any comments.
British Gas said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my decision not to uphold this complaint and for 
the reasons previously given.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman