DRN-3933355
The complaint
Mr S complains about the death benefit value of a policy he held with Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited as well as information provided on the statements.
What happened
Mr S took out a whole of life policy in the 1970s where the death benefit was guaranteed for 
the first twenty years. 
In 2020 Mr S received a statement showing the table of benefits for the following ten years. 
Mr S was unhappy with the size of the projected benefit increase compared to the amount of 
premiums he was paying. He asked Sun Life about information on the statement relating to 
additional benefits however they said that none applied to this policy. Mr S was unhappy with 
this and felt misled. 
Mr S surrendered the policy and complained to Sun life who didnt uphold the complaint. 
They said the policy was administered correctly in accordance with the terms and conditions 
and that the correct surrender value had been paid.
Remaining unhappy Mr S brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought the policy was administered correctly 
and no errors were made. They also explained that there had been a change to the policy in 
2017 and since that time no further bonuses were due. 
Mr S disagreed saying he felt cheated in some way so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided a lot of information about this complaint and its clear how strongly he 
feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr S that Ive read and considered everything 
provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised some things which reflects 
the informal nature of our service. 
In order to uphold this complaint I would need to be persuaded that Sun Life made errors in 
administering the policy. However looking at everything that happened thats not the case. 
The policy had a guaranteed death benefit value for the first twenty years but after that there 
was no guarantee of value. I know Mr S was disappointed with the value in 2020 and also 
the projections for the following ten years, but I havent seen any evidence of errors being 
made. I think the policy was correctly administered as it shouldve been.
There was a change to the policy in 2017 when it was changed to a non-profit plan. This 
meant that bonuses already applied were secured at that time and would be paid upon 
death, but no further bonuses would be applied. Ive seen a copy of a letter where Mr S was 
notified of this change.
Mr S says the statement wording Total claim payable excluding additional benefits is 
misleading. However looking at the statement I think that the figures provided are clear.  
Prior to 2017 there was a possibility of additional benefits in the form of bonuses from a 
distribution of surplus in the fund, but after that date this was no longer a feature of the 
policy. Im sorry if Mr S feels let down but I think the information provided is clear and not 
misleading. 
Sun Life made Mr S aware of the value of the policy on the statements he was sent. Mr S 
decided from this information that the policy no longer provided value for money, so it was 
surrendered. I can understand why Mr S chose to do this however Ive not seen evidence of 
any mistakes and I think the policy was administered correctly. 
When dealing with our Investigator Mr S raised an issue about charges on the policy saying 
that these might be the reason why the death benefit wasnt as high as he expected. Sun 
Life hasnt been given the opportunity to investigate any issue about charges, and this didnt 
form part of the original complaint, so isnt something I can consider. 
Having carefully considered everything provided Im satisfied Sun Life acted fairly and 
reasonably when administering the policy so I wont be asking them to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman