DRN-3400084
The complaint
Miss H and Mr N complain about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Miss H and Mr N have travel insurance as a benefit of their 
bank account. In January 2019, Miss H and Mr N booked a ski trip which had departure 
and return dates of 17 March 2019 and 30 March 2019 respectively. 
Unfortunately, on 19 March 2019 whilst they were on their trip, Miss Hs close relative 
was seriously injured whilst skiing. Miss H and Mr N effectively curtailed their trip from 
the date of the accident. I understand that they returned home on 28 March 2019. 
In March 2019, Miss H and Mr N made a claim against their policy for unused 
accommodation, travel and activities costs and additional flight costs. UKI settled the 
claim in March 2021.
It's common ground that UKI didnt handle Miss H and Mr Ns claim well. It offered them 
compensation amounting to £450. Miss H and Mr N didnt think that was enough and 
pursued their complaint. They want significant financial compensation for the trauma 
caused by UKIs handling of their claim and the time they spent dealing with the matter. 
Mr N said that hes seeking compensation of between £1,000 and £2,000. Miss H and 
Mr N also want UKI to evaluate its claims and complaints processes. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that UKI should pay 
total compensation of £700 in relation to Miss H and Mr Ns distress and inconvenience, 
so a further £250. 
UKI accepted the investigators recommendation but Miss H and Mr N didnt. They asked 
that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to the claim. Its clear and quite 
understandable that Miss H and Mr N have strong feelings about this matter. Mr N has 
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all this carefully 
and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that neither Mr N nor 
Miss H will take as a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think is the central issue in the 
case, that is whether UKI have done enough to put matters right.
This service isnt the regulator, so we cant direct UKI generally in relation to its claim 
process. Miss H and Mr N have also expressed concern about how UKI handled their 
complaint. Our service can only consider complaints about financial services. So, I cant 
consider the points about the handling of their complaint because it isnt a regulated activity. 
But I can look at how UKI handled Miss H and Mr Ns claim. 
Its common ground that UKI caused extensive delay in settling the claim and that Mr N had 
to chase for updates and provide the same information repeatedly. UKI didnt return calls 
when it said it would do so and didnt keep Mr N updated about the progress of the claim. 
UKI also had several different approaches to settling the claim. UKIs errors are 
compounded by the fact that it was on notice about what had happened here and about the 
sensitivities of the claim and the effect events had on Miss H. 
In cases like this, where theres been errors, we look at the effect of the errors on the parties. 
We dont seek to punish the insurer. Here, UKIs errors meant that Miss H in particular was 
reminded of traumatic events. And the claim was unresolved for a significant period. Both 
Miss H and Mr N spent additional time dealing with what should have been a fairly 
straightforward claim. 
In all the circumstances, I think that total compensation of £700 is fair and reasonable in this 
case in relation to the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss H and Mr N by UKIs 
handling of the claim. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and 
duration of the distress and inconvenience caused by UKIs errors in this case. 
UKIs delay meant that Miss H and Mr N were kept out of the use of the settlement money 
for longer than was necessary. So, I think its fair that UKI pays interest on the settlement 
amount  as distinct from the award for distress and inconvenience Ive referred to above. 
UKI has now agreed to do that. 
For these reasons, I uphold Miss H and Mr Ns complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, UKI should now:
Pay Miss H and Mr N additional compensation of £250 in relation to their distress and 
inconvenience, bringing the total amount paid to £700.
Pay interest on the amount UKI paid in settlement of the claim at the simple rate of 
8% per year from the date Miss H and Mr N made the claim, to the date it made 
payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss H and Mr Ns complaint. U K Insurance Limited should 
take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr N 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman