DRN-4111725
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc are holding him liable for credit card transactions 
he says he didnt make. Hed like the transactions refunded.
What happened
Mr P has appointed representatives for this complaint  but for ease of reading Ill refer 
solely to Mr P in this decision.
Mr P held a credit card account with Sainsburys. In February 2021 he contacted the bank to 
discuss his finances. He later carried out a balance transfer to a different credit card 
provider. Later that month the address on the account was amended by phone call to a 
different area of the country. A new card and PIN were ordered and delivered to the new 
address.
In late March 2021 there were four large transactions on the account totalling £6,676.65. 
Mr P says he first became aware of them when he received a text message telling him he 
was close to his limit. He contacted Sainsburys to say he hadnt made these transactions 
and shouldnt be held responsible.
Sainsburys looked into what happened but declined to refund the payments. They couldnt 
see how an unknown third party could have gathered enough information to pass security 
without Mr Ps involvement. 
Mr P later found that Sainsburys had registered a marker with the fraud prevention agency 
CIFAS against him. He complained about this, but Sainsburys said they were satisfied with 
the information theyd recorded.
Unhappy with this Mr P referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into what happened but didnt think Sainsburys needed to do anything further. They 
accepted that the callers voice on the calls to Sainsburys was different to Mr P. But they 
said they couldnt see how the person who called would have known enough personal 
information about Mr P to pass security. 
The investigator saw that Mr P had accessed his online account after the address had 
changed, so thought he ought to have noticed this. They also couldnt see a reason why a 
fraudster who had ordered a new card would wait almost a month before attempting to use 
it. The locations of the disputed usage were closer to Mr Ps actual address than the 
changed address. 
Overall, the investigator felt it likely that the transactions were authorised by Mr P himself, or 
someone with his knowledge and consent.
Mr P disagreed, saying the information used to pass security could have come from other 
sources, or be obvious to answer. But this didnt change the investigators mind. As no 
agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. On review of the 
evidence I reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator and issued my 
provisional decision which said the following.
Reviewing the technical evidence, its clear to me the payments were made using a card 
issued and verified using the PIN. The key consideration for me here is whether I think its 
more likely than not the transactions were carried out either by Mr P, or someone with his 
authorisation to do so. The relevant regulations say that Sainsburys can only hold him liable 
for the transactions if this is the case.
Having considered everything, Im minded that its reasonable to conclude Mr P was 
involved in the transactions. There are several points that lead me to this conclusion:
I dont have a copy of the call where the new card was ordered, but I do have the 
calls where the account address was updated, and a new PIN was ordered. These 
are made by someone with a different voice to Mr P. However, I do find it unusual 
that the caller updates the address but makes no attempt to update any other contact 
details such as the telephone number or email address. I might expect a fraudster to 
do this, so they can gain full control of the account.
The caller passes the additional security questions without any difficulty, which 
shows me that they had considerable knowledge of Mr P. The additional security 
involved other parties Mr P held accounts with and his energy provider. In the call the 
bank state the additional questions came from information on Mr Ps credit file, so its 
possible that they could have obtained the information from there. But Ive not 
received any indication that Mr Ps data had been compromised by any third party.
The new PIN was issued on 7 March, but the first payment doesnt take place until 
27 March. It doesnt seem likely to me that a fraudster, in possession of the card and 
PIN, would wait several weeks before attempting any transactions. They wouldnt be 
aware of when the cardholder would discover the change of address, or that a new 
card had been issued. So, I may expect them to try and make use of all the available 
funds as quickly as possible. The delay before attempting any transactions suggests 
they were aware the card would still be usable.
The transactions take place over four days, which again suggests there was no rush 
to use the available balance. There were no further attempts to use the card after it 
was cancelled, which suggests whoever had the card knew it wouldnt work any 
further.
The online banking for the card is accessed several times between the address being 
changed and the transactions in dispute. There is no suggestion Mr Ps online 
banking details had been compromised  he had recently changed the password, 
and to do so required two-factor authentication. Mr P had said he was checking that 
a balance transfer had gone through, but this had been completed several weeks 
prior. This doesnt seem a likely explanation to me. The statements were accessed at 
one point, which would have shown the updated address. If Mr P hadnt expected 
this I may have expected him to report this to Sainsburys at the time.
The places the card was used are significantly closer to Mr Ps address than the 
updated address. While I accept Mr Ps point that the transactions could have taken 
place anywhere, I dont think it likely a fraudster would choose to travel several 
hundred miles to make large transactions rather than carry them out more locally.
Take all of this into account, I dont see it likely that the transactions were carried out by 
some unknown third party. While theres no typical fraudster, I would generally expect a 
fraudster to act as quickly as possible. But in this case whoever was accessing the account 
seemed particularly unhurried  which for a fraudster would expose them to much greater 
risk theyd be found out. The only plausible explanation I can see is that the transactions were carried out either by Mr P, or someone with his authorisation. On that basis, its not 
unreasonable for Sainsburys to hold him liable for them, and to ask that they be repaid.
Sainsburys have also recorded a marker with the fraud prevention agency CIFAS. There are 
certain standard of evidence a business needs to be able to evidence to record a marker 
with CIFAS  that there is evidence fraud or financial crime took place or was attempted and 
that the person the marker is about was complicit. The evidence needs to be clear and 
rigorous and need to go beyond mere suspicion.
Ive considered this point carefully. In this case Im satisfied for the reasons above that Mr P 
was involved in the transactions reported as fraudulent. And Im satisfied that the totality of 
evidence Sainsburys hold meets the standard set out in CIFAS. Therefore, its not 
unreasonable for this marker to be reported.
Sainsburys accepted the provisional decision. Mr P disagreed, saying the conclusions 
reached were not a reasonable assessment of the complaint. He said the provisional 
decision was based on assumptions of what a typical fraudster would do, despite the 
decision saying there is no typical fraudster. He said he had been the victim of a 
sophisticated fraud. He felt the burden of proof for any compromise of his personal data 
should fall on Sainsburys. He felt the findings that he was involved were irrational, and the 
evidence hed provided hadnt been given due weight.
Mr P provided emails he says show he was working at the time of the fraudulent 
transactions. These were shared with Sainsburys, but this didnt change their mind. Ive now 
reconsidered all the available evidence, along with the additional points raised by Mr P.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied with the conclusions reached in my provisional decision.
In his response to the provisional decision Mr P commented that he believes a court would 
find in his favour, because he claims there is a lack of evidence that he was involved in the 
transactions. As he has acknowledged though our service isnt a court and isnt intended to 
replicate what a court does  our remit is to resolve complaints quickly and informally, based 
on what the ombudsman considers to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
In considering this complaint Ive taken in to account the relevant legislation and regulations 
 including the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
along with relevant industry guidance and what I consider to be best practice at the time of 
the complaint. 
Ive read and considered all of Mr Ps submissions regarding his complaint, and his detailed 
response to the provisional decision. But Ill concentrate on what I feel is relevant, which our 
rules allow us to do. If I dont comment on a specific point raised, this isnt because Ive 
failed to take it on board or consider it appropriately, but because I dont need to comment 
on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive noted Mr Ps comments about my reference in the provisional decision to what a typical 
fraudster may do  which in this case meant there was no single specific pattern of 
behaviour Id expect a fraudster to demonstrate in every single case. However, in this case Mr P is alleging that he was the victim of a sophisticated fraud here  
so at the very least I may expect the fraudsters to attempt to maximise the amount of money 
they can take in a short period of time. But here they instead had a working card and the PIN 
but made no attempt to use it for several weeks. 
This would represent a tremendous risk that the address change would be discovered, and 
potentially the newly ordered card be cancelled by Mr P. We know he was accessing his 
online banking for the card after the address had been changed and could have noticed this 
change when he was checking the statements. And there was no attempt by a third party to 
gain access to, or control of, the online banking, despite having all the necessary information 
to do so.
Whoever had the card didnt feel rushed to make use of it  which is also reflected in the 
eventual usage over several days. So, Im not persuaded that it was more likely that not the 
work of some unknown sophisticated fraudster. That there were no further attempts to use 
the card after it had been cancelled strongly suggest to me that whoever had the card was 
aware it would no longer work. 
Ive also not seen anything to suggest any other accounts Mr P held were targeted by 
fraudsters at the time  it seems confined to this one particular card, which seems unusual if 
an unknown third party fraudster had compromised his credit file. 
Ive reviewed the emails Mr P has provided between his employer at the time and him, which 
he says shows he couldnt have carried out the transactions. But Im not persuaded this tells 
me anything other than Mr P had access to his emails at the time of the transactions. It also 
doesnt discount the possibility of a third party using the card with Mr Ps consent  and we 
already know there was a third party involved by the voice on the phone. 
Im sorry if Mr P doesnt feel Ive given appropriate weight to what hes provided. I have 
considered everything submitted to me. My decision doesnt hinge on a particular piece of 
evidence, or a single event, but rather by considering the totality of the evidence and placing 
appropriate weight on them. The only plausible explanation I can see is that the transactions 
were carried out either by Mr P or someone with his consent, for the reasons given above. 
Under the relevant sections of the Payment Services Regulations these would be authorised 
transactions and Sainsburys can hold him liable for them, and its not unreasonable that 
they ask for them to be repaid.
In regard to the marker recorded with CIFAS, I remain satisfied that the information held by 
Sainsburys is enough to conclude that Mr P was involved in the transactions and would 
have known this at the time he reported them as fraudulent. On that basis, the standards of 
evidence required by CIFAS have been met, so I cant reasonably ask them to remove this 
marker.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman