DRN-3758235
The complaint
K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt notify it of their intention to start charging it for 
the use of its bank account.
K is represented by its treasurer, Mr U. 
What happened
In September 2021, Mr U read an article about HSBCs intention to charge Charity and 
Sports Associated accounts a monthly fee and additional transaction charges from 1 
November 2021. Mr U contacted HSBC as K hadnt been made aware of these changes.
Mr U spoke to HSBC on 24 September 2021. HSBC explained that an email had been sent 
to K advising it of the impending changes. Mr U asked which email address had been used. 
HSBC provided the email address, but Mr U said it was no longer connected to the account.
Mr U asked if a change of email address could be taken over the phone. HSBCs 
representative explained he couldnt do it, but he could transfer the call to the business 
banking team who could do it. Mr U declined as it had already taken him forty minutes to 
speak to someone and he didnt want to spend any longer on the call. 
Later that day, Mr U complained to HSBC as K hadnt been notified of their intention to 
introduce charges on the account. HSBC responded to the complaint confirming that they 
had updated the email address and they paid £30 compensation to K as an apology for the 
delays Mr U experienced on the call he made to them in September 2021.
Mr U was unhappy with this response and sent a follow up letter asking HSBC to provide the 
notification of their intention to start charging K for use of its account with them. Mr U also 
asked for assurance that his personal mobile number and email address would not be used 
again without his permission. HSBC acknowledged this letter in December 2021 and 
responded on 7 January 2022, however K never received that letter.
Mr U brought Ks complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into the 
matter. Our investigator said that he was satisfied that HSBC had contacted K about the 
account changes and were not responsible for the email address not being updated on the 
account. He said the charges had been correctly applied to the account and that £30 was 
fair compensation for the delays Mr U experienced during his phone call to HSBC.   
Mr U asked for an ombudsman to reconsider the complaint and would like HSBC to do the 
following in order to resolve the matter:
Provide the correct notification by post with a new start date for charging to 
commence.
Refund all charges paid by K to date.
Confirm that HSBC have annotated their records so that Mr Us email address or 
personal mobile number will not be used to contact him without permission.
Pay personal compensation to Mr U for having to chase HSBC for information and for 
the misuse of his personal information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont mention every single point thats been raised by K, its not because I havent 
thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. Im going to 
concentrate however on what I consider is key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Having considered all the evidence, I dont think HSBC have done anything substantially 
wrong here. Ive explained why below. 
Provide the correct notification by post with a new start date for charging to commence
In August 2021, HSBC contacted K, using the email address they held on file for it, to inform 
it of their intention to start charging for the use of its account. It was established during the 
call on 24 September 2021, that the email address HSBC held on file was no longer current. 
HSBCs representative explained that he couldnt change it, but he could transfer the call to 
the business banking team who could. Mr U declined this offer.
Our investigator said it was the responsibility of K to keep its email address updated and I 
agree with this. HSBC cannot be held responsible for an organisation not keeping their 
details updated. However, Mr U has since provided a letter from 2017 to show that K had 
updated the address on its account when the treasurer changed to Mr U. 
Whilst I agree that K asked for their information to be updated, this was only in relation to the 
postal address. There was no request for a change of preferences or for any email 
addresses or telephone numbers to be removed or updated. Ive also seen evidence that 
HSBC wrote to K in late 2018, when mandate changes were being made, reminding it to 
update all details including email addresses as these wouldnt automatically happen when 
the mandate was changed.
As such, I dont think HSBC have done anything wrong here. They provided the relevant 
notice to K about the changes to the account in August 2021 and it was not their fault that K 
didnt receive it.
In addition, Mr U was aware of these impending changes due to articles he had read in the 
media. The changes were also confirmed in the call between himself and HSBC in 
September 2021 during which HSBCs representative offered to talk Mr U through the 
changes which he declined. In addition, the representative offered to provide Mr U with a link 
to a webpage detailing these changes. This was not a link to internet banking as Mr U has 
since suggested.
Ive covered off the use of Mr Us personal mobile number further down in my decision but 
regardless of this, Mr U also received a text message about the changes and there was a 
link to the web page included. It appears that this was the same link offered to Mr U during 
his call with HSBC. For clarity, the link provided in the text message still works and the 
information that was sent to K by email is available here: 
https://www.business.hsbc.uk/charitablesupport.So, I think K was aware that the changes were due to take place from the 1 November and 
Ive seen that HSBC provided several different opportunities for Mr U to review this 
information which Mr U didnt opt to accept. 
Refund all charges paid by K to date
As Ive detailed above, HSBC made K aware of the charges in advance of them taking 
effect. From what Ive seen the charges were correctly applied, so I wont be asking HSBC to 
refund any charges already applied to the account.
Confirm that HSBC have annotated their records so that Mr Us email address or personal 
mobile number will not be used to contact him without permission
HSBC have provided evidence to show these changes have been made to the account. 
They have also updated the correspondence preferences on the account to ensure any 
future correspondence is sent by post.
Pay personal compensation to Mr U for having to chase HSBC for information and for the 
misuse of his personal information
If Mr U thinks that his information has been misused by HSBC, it would be for Mr U to 
pursue that matter with the Information Commissioners Office should he so wish.
HSBC has already paid £30 to K to compensate it for the time Mr U spent on hold during the 
call in September 2021 and this seems fair to me in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman