DRN-3049511
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has unfairly lapsed her paid up 
whole of life policy, despite telling her that it would run to September 2024.  
To resolve her complaint, Mrs W wants her policy reinstated to September 2024, as 
promised. 
What happened
In 1996, Mrs W began a whole of life policy with Friends Provident. Aviva took over the 
policy in 2017. Mrs W took out an individual policy with her husband, Mr W, taking out the 
same cover at the same time. Statements were issued to Mrs W in February each year. 
In March 2011, the policy was made paid up at Mrs Ws request, after she and Mr W raised 
a number of concerns with Friends Provident about the operation of the policy. This meant 
Mrs W no longer paid any further premiums, and the fund would deplete over a number of 
years depending on costs and fund performance. At that time, the policys sum assured was 
set at £5,293 and Mrs W was told the estimated end date for the policy would be September 
2024.
Mr W asked Friends Provident for further information regarding its calculations on his and 
Mrs Ws policies. In May 2011, Friends Provident sent a further letter explaining the sum 
assured it gave was wrong  it had quoted a minimum value not the actual value of £9,825. 
It then provided Mrs W with three options  1) remove the life cover on her policy with 
Friends Provident paying for any future tax charge as this would remove the qualifying tax 
status, 2) to keep the sum assured at the correct value of £9,825, or 3) to amend the life 
cover to the minimum sum assured of £5,293.  
Mrs W chose the third option where the date the fund value may reach zero was 2024. She 
and Mr W did not further the matter as a complaint to this service at that time, though 
Friends Provident did issue referral rights within its letter of 25 May 2011. 
In 2018, Mr W contacted Aviva regarding his and his wifes policies, to ask if they could 
resume their premium payments. In June 2018, Aviva sent Mrs W a letter to explain it could 
not restart her policy. It also said the policy may cease to offer cover from February 2020.  
Mr W wrote back to Aviva on 29 June 2018 explaining that in May 2011, Friends Provident 
had told both himself and his wife that each policy would continue to September 2024, and 
he asked Aviva to confirm it would honour its previous assurance. 
The following month, Aviva sent another brief letter to Mrs W. it said that the cover was a 
whole of life policy, and though it didnt have an expiry date, the policy would cease to offer 
cover in September 2024 unless a claim was made or it was surrendered beforehand.  
In February 2020, the policy lapsed after the fund value depleted to zero. Aviva wrote to Mrs 
W to tell her that the policy had ended.  
Mrs W complained. In June 2020, Aviva issued a response to the complaint. It said the letter 
of July 2018 was an error, and the information in the letter of June 2018 was correct. It 
explained that life cover charges increase with age, therefore the estimated date the cover 
would cease was for illustration purposes only - it was never guaranteed.
Aviva recognised the error had caused Mrs W to wrongly rely on a different date, and whilst 
this letter was incorrect it had upset Mrs W by doing so. It therefore sent her £100 to reflect 
the distress its mistake had caused.   
Mrs W brought the complaint to this service. She said she had been using the policy as a 
funeral expenses plan, but will now have to take out cover somewhere else at a larger cost. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint but did not think it should succeed. He said he could 
see that Aviva had misled Mrs W by sending the July 2020 letter after the June 2020 one. 
He believed that its actions caused Mrs W a loss of expectation, but the redress issued by 
Aviva was appropriate for that upset.  
He did not otherwise think the complaint should succeed. He believed Mrs W would also 
have had cause to question Avivas letters given they were issued one month apart but gave 
estimations for the policy end date that differed by three and a half years. Further, the policy 
would end once the fund had been used up, and therefore he could not compel Aviva to 
carry on the policy.  
Mrs W disagreed. Mr W made some further submissions on her behalf. He said that in 
February 2018, the fund value had been quoted as £643. In the previous two years before 
that it was £638 and £590. Only life cover annual costs and yearly fees should have been 
deducted. Mr W said Mrs W did not understand why that £643 had disappeared and Aviva 
had given no breakdown as to why this had happened.
Aviva provided that explanation for Mr and Mrs W. The yearly statements had incorrectly 
shown the fund values without the monthly deductions taken, and this had been the case 
since 2015. However, the cash in value for each year was correct. 
Mr W said Mrs W still disagreed. He sent a further letter of written submissions and asked for 
the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. I wont repeat the letter in full here, though I 
have read it in its entirety. In summary, Mr W on behalf of Mrs W said:
after the catalogue of errors in 2011, the complaint handler at Friends Provident told 
Mrs W categorically that her policy would be in place until September 2024;
Mr W had replied to the 12 June 2018 letter from Aviva to explain that Friends 
Provident had said it would honour his and Mrs Ws policies until September 2024;
Aviva replied on 9 July 2018 that it accepted this decision and would indeed honour 
the policy expiry date of September 2024;
they had taken professional advice and Aviva must honour its letter of 9 July 2018 
where it said the policy would be kept valid until September 2024;
Aviva has only accepted it made yet another error with failing to set out the costs and 
deductions for the policy when questioned after the investigator issued his view;
Mrs Ws statements show that her fund value in 2018 was £643 so Mrs W questions 
how the fund could have been used;
her paid-up life policy was a legally binding financial contract as originally agreed in 
the letters of Friends Provident dated 12 and 25 May 2011;
so for Aviva to lapse the policy at any time before September 2024 is a breach of 
contract. Aviva had no further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint 
should not succeed. Im sorry that this will not be the answer Mrs W has hoped for.  
I note that Mr and Mrs W have both brought complaints to Aviva regarding their policies and 
they originally pursued the matter here jointly. Aviva asked correctly for the two complaints to 
be split as they each held individual policies. To be clear, this complaint concerns just Mrs 
Ws policy  there will of course be similarities in the background and the findings as they 
arise from the same circumstances, but each complaint has been considered separately. 
In summary, my findings are:
though I understand Mr and Mrs Ws strength of feeling about the correspondence 
from 2011, I do not agree that the Friends Provident complaint outcome at that time 
set out a contract or binding authority that the policy had to end in 2024;
what the complaint handlers letter of 25 May 2011 did was explain an example of 
possible life costs if the minimum sums assured were retained, and it would honour 
these due to the error in the earlier complaint outcome of 12 May 2011;
that letter said the minimum sum assured was £5,293, the fund value was £930, the 
approximate life cover cost was £5.75 each month and the approximate date fund 
value may reach zero was September 2024;
however, directly below that projection it was said I must stress that all the cost 
figures and dates relating to the funds' depletion are very approximate. The costs 
and depletion will depend on the sums assured chosen and how the fund performs 
over the years. Your increasing age and [Mrs Ws] will also impact on the costs. I'm 
sorry but we can only give you estimates, and none of the figures given are 
guaranteed.;
I do not accept the view that this letter was a categoric confirmation of the end date 
for the policy  the complaint handler made clear in her statement above that the 
figures were produced at that time, but that they were an estimate and these will 
change in the future given the cost of the cover increases with age;  
the 12 June 2018 letter also gave Mrs W a prediction of the performance  stating 
that the paid up status of the policy could not be changed and noting that on the 
current growth rates shown below your policy is projected to last until:
oOctober 2019 if investments grow at 0.80% a year
oNovember 2019 if investments grow at 3.80% a year
oFebruary 2020 if investments grow at 6.80% a year
the policy correctly lasted until February 2020;
I realise Mr W set out to Aviva on 29 June that we have attached the original 
correspondence with [NAME] of Friends Provident where it clearly shows our policies 
are expected to be in place until September 2024 and we would ask you confirm that 
you will honour the original agreement entered into with Friends Provident ; 
on that basis Aviva issued the error letter of 9 July 2018 but, this letter was incorrect;
the right approach of this service in a complaint is for an ombudsman to decide what 
ought to have happened but for a business making a mistake;what ought to have happened is Aviva should have reiterated that its June 2018 letter 
was correct;
I cannot ask Aviva to honour what it set out in the July 2018 letter, as it does not 
follow that Mrs W or Aviva can rely on an error;
no confirmation was given in 2011 of a guaranteed end date for the policy;
the July 2018 letter does actually confirm the same, that the policy doesnt have a 
clear end date;
it then wrongly repeats back to Mrs W that the cover will end in 2024;
nonetheless, this is a mistake for which Aviva has paid Mrs W compensation for 
upset and I believe that is sufficient in the circumstances;
the correct position is that the policy would end once the funds had depleted and the 
policy would lapse without value  this could not have been known with any degree 
of pinpoint accuracy in 2011;
in respect of the charges, Aviva has made a further error in the statements by failing 
to clearly set out the charges that had occurred each year;
these were omitted, and the only clue to that was the cash in value of the cover, 
which was accurate;
therefore though Mrs W has understandably relied on the 2017 fund value to explain 
that she believes the policy had a value in 2020, this is not the case;
the stated fund values were unfortunately wrongly quoted without the ongoing costs 
having been deducted;
even an approximation of just the estimated life cover cost from Friends Providents 
2011 letter would have given total life cover costs of over £609 before any 
management or fund charges were factored in and these do not account for the costs 
increasing in those years;
this shows how the fund has reasonably depleted by February 2020 without any 
premium payments;
Aviva has explained how this was a system error;
If Mrs W requires, she can ask Aviva for a full breakdown of the deductions made 
year on year as they ought to have been shown; 
I realise how frustrating it is for Mrs W that Avivas error regarding the July 2018 letter 
has perpetuated the mistakes of Friends Provident since the policy was paid up at a 
value of £5,293 in 2011;
but the lapse of the policy accounting for the costs was correct and Mrs W has 
received compensation for Avivas mistakes which overall I feel does sit within a 
reasonable value for errors of this nature that this service would award;
I cannot therefore order Aviva to reinstate the policy, nor can I insist it relies on an 
approximation from 2011 as to the expected end date of the cover as it was correctly 
lapsed with no value in February 2020. 
My final decision
Though I realise Mrs W will be disappointed by my decision, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman