DRN-3601018
The complaint
Mr H complains that Cumberland Building Society (Cumberland) didnt do enough to protect 
him when he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
Mr H began investing with a company in November 2019. He made payments to it via third 
party cryptocurrency exchange providers.
Mr H made an initial card payment in November 2019. Between then and August 2020, he 
made a large number of payments, via card payments and transfers, including in branch, 
resulting in a loss of around £164,000.
Cumberland says it discussed Mr Hs reasons for his transactions on at least eight 
occasions. So it thinks it reasonably questioned the payments. It feels that Mr H wasnt 
honest with it on several occasions and it noted he found alternative ways to make 
transactions where it refused to process them. It also pointed out that it wasnt aware of any 
circumstances suggesting Mr H was vulnerable at the time of the payments.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She felt that Cumberland could have made 
more in-depth enquiries about the payments he was making. But she didnt think further 
intervention would have made a difference as Mr H didnt provide accurate information and 
was insistent the payments were made, despite some strong suggestions from Cumberland 
that he might be falling victim to a scam. And she was satisfied thered have been no right of 
chargeback.
Mr H disagreed  so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  Ill explain why.
The first question I must ask myself is whether the money was lost as the result of a scam, 
rather than simply a high-risk investment. I dont have enough information to safely say this 
was a scam  but Cumberland seems to be relatively confident of this, and Mr H doesnt 
seem to be able to access any of his money. So Im going to proceed on the basis that this 
was a scam, particularly as it doesnt affect my decision overall.
As Mr H authorised these payments, the starting position is that Cumberland would be 
expected to execute authorised payments instructions without undue delay. And that Mr H is 
liable for the loss incurred. But there are some situations where we believe that banks  
taking into account relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud 
risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment. If Cumberland failed to do so, and that failure led to a loss due to fraud, 
it might be fair to hold it liable.
Looking at the first payment, which was for £263.30 on 4 November 2019 and was made by 
card to Company A, its not entirely clear what happened here. It appears that the payment 
flagged with Cumberland due to it being processed overseas. From a call recording Ive 
listened to, which was between staff at Cumberland, I note that Mr H was sent a text, asking 
him to call in. And from this, it seems that he did intend to make the payment, but it wasnt 
for the amount hed expected it to be, resulting in the card being stopped. 
In a later call between Mr H and Cumberland, in which he was making another payment  
also to Company A - he explained that he knew what had happened but said the card had 
already been stopped. So, it sounds as though he had intended to make this first payment, 
and I note that payment doesnt seem to have been disputed again until the rest of the 
payments also were. 
Mr Hs second payment, for almost £3,000 on 8 November 2019, also flagged with 
Cumberland. From the conversation, its clear that Mr H did intend to make this payment. 
After Mr H referenced that the payment was being converted from euros, the adviser asked if 
it was for him to go on holiday and Mr H replied, something to do with that. 
As a result of these first two payments, the next two payments which were to the same 
recipient and were both on 11 November 2019 for around £4,300.00 and around £1,300, 
flagged on Cumberlands systems but were seemingly deemed to be acceptable on the 
basis of the earlier conversations. But I dont think Cumberland did enough here. It went as 
far as confirming that Mr H had authorised these first two payments, but it knew thered been 
an issue resulting in a card being blocked. It also knew that Mr H had then made a further 
payment to the same company. So, I think it should have asked more questions to try to 
determine if Mr H was at risk of being the victim of a scam. 
Cumberland called Mr H on 4 December 2019 after hed made an overseas payment 
request in branch to a different, but connected, company  Company B. It said it wanted to 
carry out some due diligence as it was a large amount of money - £12,012. Mr H said it was 
for real estate purposes. The adviser asked Mr H if he was happy that he knew the company 
he was dealing with, whether hed looked them up, whether he had past dealings with them, 
and whether he was cold-called out of the blue  he said he wanted to ensure Mr H wasnt 
being scammed. 
Mr H explained that hed been working with the company for a couple of weeks. He 
recognised that the company he was dealing with was based abroad, with a bank account 
based elsewhere too. And its clear from the call recording that he was generally satisfied 
with the payment hed been trying to make, and he referenced having been through a similar 
check in branch for this payment. He also alluded to wanting the payment to go through 
relatively quickly. I think its debatable as to whether this line of questioning was enough  
Mr H wasnt pressed into providing responses, but he was given something to think about 
here. 
Following this call, around 11 further payments were made. These were to Company A, 
Company B, and other similar companies. Cumberlands notes suggest that its systems 
flagged all of these payments, but that they were all considered acceptable. This appears to 
be on the basis that a pattern of spending had been established, payments had been made 
to two of the recipients previously, the third recipient was similar in nature to the others, and 
all of the payments to this point spanned a reasonable period of time  4 November 2019 to 
11 February 2020. 
On 19 February 2020, Mr H tried to make a further payment. But an adviser from Cumberland got in touch with him. He said he was hoping to get some further information as 
some of the payments were coming across as slightly concerning so he wanted to make 
sure this wasnt a scam. In this call, Mr H said the payments were for real estate, that hed 
contacted the investment company a few times and had done a lot of checks before 
investing, denied there being any link to cryptocurrency, explained how the investments 
worked, and said he had paperwork to support what hed been told. The adviser questioned 
what checks hed done, what reassurance hed had, whether hed be willing to share 
paperwork, whether there was any urgency or pressure with the payments and, ultimately, 
he told Mr H that hed like to put the payments on hold until they could both be satisfied there 
was no cause for concern. Mr H agreed. 
Cumberland and Mr H had a follow-up call the next day (20 February 2020). Within this, 
Mr H said he didnt have concerns whatsoever. The Cumberland adviser said if Mr H was 
adamant he wanted it to go through, it would be processed, but said it would come with a 
warning and would be against their recommendation.
Cumberland called Mr H again on 21 February 2020. The adviser hadnt yet had the 
confirmation they were hoping for in relation to the payment. But he noted that Mr H had 
made payments by card to Company A in the meantime. During this call, the adviser stated, 
I believe that this is a scam to which Mr H responded, I dont think it is and sounded very 
confident of this. 
A few days later, Mr H made payments to a new recipient on pre-paid debit cards. And there 
was one final payment almost six months later to another recipient. Mr Hs card was stopped 
following this, a text was sent asking him to call in, and he confirmed hed intended to make 
this payment and had dealt with the company before.
Would intervention have made a difference?
As Ive said earlier, I do think that Cumberland should have asked more questions earlier on. 
However, I have to consider what would have happened if Cumberland had done so. Having 
thought carefully about this, Im not persuaded that appropriate intervention by Cumberland, 
with the information it could reasonably have had at the time of the earliest payments would 
have stopped Mr H from continuing with these payments. 
Cumberland didnt know Mr H was being scammed or that these payments were the first of 
many. Had it conducted searches, or encouraged Mr H to do so, it also wouldnt have found 
sufficient information to be concerned about online  there were no warnings about any of 
the companies involved on the Financial Conduct Authority register or the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions until the payments had already been made. 
Id also add that, following Mr Hs initial payment of around £260, he was under the 
impression hed made profits of around $10,000 within a matter of days. Though this is an 
unrealistic return, it was enough to persuade Mr H to continue investing. In terms on the 
questioning around this £260 payment itself, I note the focus was on whether Mr H had 
intended to make the payment, not where the payment had gone to. Given the surrounding 
call and the fact this was a relatively small payment, I dont think Cumberlands actions here 
led to the loss. 
By the second payment, it appears that Mr H was already being slightly evasive with his 
responses, something to do with that (in reference to holidays). From here, Mr H has 
admitted to providing false information to get payments through. 
Even when Cumberland stated I believe that this is a scam and held off from making the 
payment, Mr H found another means of making the payment, and then purchased a pre-paid debit card which seemingly sidestepped the likelihood of his payments being stopped. So, I 
dont think an intervention at an earlier stage, with much more limited information, would 
have stopped Mr H from investing. And it seems fair to say that, from 19 February 2020, 
Mr H was put on notice that the payments he was making were of some concern.
After Mr H had reported that hed been the victim of a scam, he spoke with Cumberland on 
the phone. Mr H admitted that having believed hed made a substantial return from a couple 
of investments, he wanted to make sure his payments went through so created a cover story 
in relation to investing in property, and he knows he shouldnt have done this. He said he 
knew that mentioning cryptocurrency would lead to further questioning. And that tells me that 
Mr H would have said whatever he needed to in order for these payments to go through.
During the call with Cumberland, it asked him At this point, what could we have said or done 
which would have stopped you from making any more payments? And he responded to say 
I dont know, wouldnt have a clue. Mr H explained that he was on a roll  his investment 
was looking good. So, on balance, while I think there were opportunities to intervene, I cant 
fairly say that any reasonable intervention from Cumberland would have stopped Mr H from 
making further payments. Its clear he had become the victim of a highly sophisticated and 
persuasive scam. And Ive not seen any evidence that Mr H would have taken heed of any 
further interventions.
So, while I know this will be hugely disappointing to Mr H, and Im very sorry hes lost such a 
large amount of money, I wont be upholding this complaint for the reasons given above. I 
would also add that I cant see that Cumberland was made aware of any vulnerabilities prior 
to the payments being made, so I dont think it can reasonably  have been expected to take 
alternative actions, or make adjustments to the way it serviced him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Cumberland Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman