DRN-3978612
The complaint
Mr M complains through his representative (A) that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First 
Direct Bank didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his complaint under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a holiday product purchased in March 2018. I 
appreciate that the contract for the product was in his and his wifes name, however it was 
partly financed by Mr M on his credit card account with HSBC, so he is the eligible 
complainant.
What happened
In 2018 while on their honeymoon in Las Vegas, Mr M and his wife were asked if they would 
like to attend a tour of a new hotel in exchange for free tickets to a show. The tour turned out 
to be a lengthy sales presentation for a timeshare product. In the course of the meeting they 
were told that:
The product was not like other timeshares as it would allow Mr M use of the RCI (Resort 
Condominiums International) scheme whereby the week could be traded in so that they 
could travel to any Gold Crown Resort at any time 
Mr M would be purchasing an interest in a timeshare project and that the product held a 
greater value due to its flexibility.
The bookings could be made at a dramatically reduced cost through RCI when 
compared to making bookings as a member of the public. This greatly interested Mr M 
who had made clear that they would not be interested in visiting the same place
Mr M would be able to purchase the product at a greatly reduced cost, and that 
maintenance fees would be halved as part of a special offer.
The product was an asset and could be readily sold on the second-hand market.
The product could be financed by way of a loan that could be re-financed on Mr Ms 
return to the UK for a reduced interest rate, thereby vastly reducing the sum that they 
would be required to pay back.
Mr M agree to purchase the timeshare together with an enrolment in RCI. He made a down 
payment of £1,435 on his credit card. The balance of just over $13,000 was to be paid by 
instalments on his credit card under a continuous payment authority. As I understand it that 
authority was cancelled in April 2018 and HSBC successfully recovered a payment of 
£223.14.
Mr M says he only had 5 days to cancel the agreement and couldnt do so whilst he was still 
on honeymoon. He says that as well as being misrepresented to him, he and his wife had to 
undergo a number of hours of high pressure selling. He hasnt been able to use the product 
and believes it was misrepresented to him to induce him into buying. A said:
The Product has no greater exchange value than any other timeshare.
The Product could not guarantee cheaper holidays and was not suitable to be sold as an 
exchange only product, despite Mr M making clear that the ability to exchange for 
different resorts was the main reason for their interest in the product.
The Product is not easily saleable, and it is widely known that timeshare sellers far 
exceed timeshare buyers.
Even if the Product is sold, there is little prospect of Mr M recovering anything near the 
price paid for the purchase of the Product.
The price offered was not a limited availability offer, this was made to incentivise him into 
entering into the Agreement.
It would suggest that the promise regarding maintenance fees is untrue and that no 
discount has been applied.
A made a claim to HSBC under s75 CCA. HSBC said that A had produced no evidence that 
misrepresentations were made, as this did not tie in with the written documents It also said it 
didnt find there to be a breach of contract.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, one of our Investigators said that the 
evidence available does not appear to support Mr Ms claim for a refund under the CCA. So, 
she thought HSBC had fairly investigated the claim. She also considered Mr Ms allegations 
of a pressured sale under s140A CCA, but didnt think an unfair relationship was created (as 
shall set out below).
A didnt agree, pointing out that Mr M wasnt given an opportunity to read through complex 
documents, and saying that the nature of the sale gave rise to an unfair relationship. It 
further said that because Mr M would forfeit the timeshare for non-payment of maintenance 
charges that would create an unfair relationship in itself.
I issued a provisional decision, in which I didnt uphold the complaint. Neither party 
responded to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out below my provisional findings, in italics. I have also underlined the sections which 
were originally in italics.
There are two sections of the CCA which could apply in this case, and which Ive reviewed. 
S75 concerns misrepresentation or breach of contract. S140A could concern Mr Ms 
allegation of a pressured sale.
misrepresentation
Mr Ms claim is brought under s75 CCA. This essentially sets out that a borrower under a 
credit agreement has equal rights against the lender as against the supplier in respect of 
misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Mr Ms assertion that the product was misrepresented to him and his wife centre on his 
assertion that he could not make use of the product in the way that he wished. However he 
hasnt set out in any detail how any statements about the flexibility of the product or his being able to use it, were made. And while statements about it being a one day special offer 
and the maintenance fees being especially reduced may well have been made to incentivise 
Mr M to sign up on the day, I have no way of knowing if they werent, in fact, true. 
Mr M asserts that he was told that he would be able to refinance the loan  I havent seen 
any evidence that he attempted to do this, so again I dont know if this is true or not. 
Crucially Mr M returned home and almost right away told HSBC to cancel the ongoing 
payment authority. Ive seen no evidence that he sought to make use of the product or 
indeed that it didnt offer the flexibility that he wanted. And while I have no doubt that the 
timeshare points werent readily saleable, I dont know the circumstances in which such an 
assertion might have been made. It seems more likely that this was the agents opinion, 
rather than a statement of fact or guarantee.
Ive also considered the paperwork. Mr M may well have felt under pressure on the day and I 
can certainly see that he wouldnt have had time to consider it on that day. But from his 
evidence to us I can see that he and his wife were clearly unhappy on the day.
Mr M signed to say that he had received a document entitled Public Offering Statement, 
and I think he now agrees that he did receive this
This statement says amongst other things:
The Project is affiliated with the exchange company, Resort Condominiums International. 
These is no assurance that the current exchange company or any other exchange company 
will he affiliated with this development in the future. The Nevada Real Estate Division 
strongly suggests that buyers not make this purchase based on the exchange benefit 
because of the possibility it may not be available when the buyers want to utilise it.
And:
A timeshare is for personal use and is not an Investment for a profit or tax advantage. The 
purchase of a time share should be based upon its value as a vacation experience or for 
spending leisure time and not for purposes of acquiring an appreciating Investment or with 
an expectation that the time share may be resold.
I can understand that Mr M wasnt able to look at the documents on the day, and that under 
Nevada State Law, a 5 day cooling off period is short. And I also understand that the Public 
Offering Statement is a long document. Nevertheless this does conflict with what he says he 
was told to persuade him to sign up to the contract which makes me think that its not likely 
that any firm representation of fact about the investment value of the property or its resale 
value was made. As I've noted Mr M says he was clearly unhappy on the day so it might be 
reasonable to expect him to read the documents once he was out of the meeting.
s140A CCA
The section provides:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more of the following 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement.
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the agreement or any related agreement.
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or after 
the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
Only a court can make an order under this section, but I can take into account whether it 
would be likely that the court would make such an order.
Mr M complains that he and his wife were subjected to undue pressure. Having not been 
present at the sale in March 2018, it isnt possible for me to determine with certainty what 
happened during the sales presentation. But they do say they wanted to discuss matters 
with relatives and were told the special offer was only open to then on that day, And I can 
well believe the presentation lasted for some time. And that the agents spent time extolling 
the virtues of the product. But its a big step to take from that to a finding that unfair pressure 
was applied. I dont think its likely that a court would find there to have been an unfair debtor 
creditor relationship because of this.
Turning to the overall sale, I understand that Mr M was unable to read the documents on the 
day, and that he was given only five days cooling off period. Whilst that is a shorter time 
than under English Law he would nevertheless have been able to consider all the 
information outside of the meeting. In the circumstances I dont think again that its likely that 
a court would find there to have been an unfair debtor creditor relationship because of this.
Belatedly, A has brought up the fact that Mr M could forfeit his right to the timeshare for 
failing to pay the maintenance charges so this would create an unfair relationship. But, 
bearing in mind that he hasnt paid the balance of the loan, it hasnt got to the stage where 
Mr M has been made liable for maintenance charges. So far as Im aware he hasnt been 
pursued for this. I havent seen anything to demonstrate that this term was likely to operate 
in an unfair way. So again I dont think that would create an unfair relationship.
Ive noted that a payment of £223.14 was successfully recovered by HSBC. However Ive 
not seen that any further payments were requested, and Mr M hasnt made a complaint 
about this. If any future payments are requested HSBC will have to consider these at the 
time, but I cant make any direction as to a how it might treat future requests for payments.
overall
Overall, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think that that HSBC unfairly failed to deal 
with Mr Ms claim under s 75 or that s140A CCA applies.
As neither party has responded to my provisional findings, I remain persuaded by those 
findings which are now final and form part of this final decision.
On the question of liability for maintenance charges, I note that A hasnt been able to show 
that Mr M has been pursued for the balance of the loan or indeed any maintenance charges. 
I dont know the American or State law that may apply to the timeshare, but if this was an 
unfair term, this term would not be enforceable against the consumer, but it wouldnt make 
the contract as a whole unenforceable.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman