DRN-2059120
The complaint
Ms H complains about the level of service she received from Aviva Insurance Limited when 
she tried to make a claim under her home emergency policy.
What happened
One evening, in late January this year, Ms Hs electricity failed in her home. This left her with 
no power, lights, or heat. Only her mobile phone worked, but it only had 50% battery life at 
the time. Ms H had a home emergency policy with Aviva that covered electrics, so she called 
them to make a claim to have an engineer come to her home and fix the problem.
Ms H says she was on hold for around 30 minutes before she was able to speak with an 
adviser. But when her call was answered, Ms H was unhappy with the way she was treated. 
That was because the first adviser told her the earliest they could send an engineer, would 
be the following evening. Ms H was very concerned about the situation and asked Avivas 
adviser what more they could do to help her as she lives alone.
Avivas adviser thought there may have been a power outage in Ms Hs area, or problem 
with her smart meter. He explained that if that was the case, it wasnt something that was 
covered under her policy. But after asking for more help, Avivas adviser called Ms Hs 
electricity provider to see if they could help solve the problem. Ms H was put on hold before 
being connected to her electricity provider.
When Ms H spoke to her electricity provider, they asked her to check her meter. As this was 
located outside her home, and it was dark, Ms H wasnt comfortable doing this  but did so. 
After checking this, it became clear there wasnt a problem with her meter. Her electricity 
provider tried putting Ms H back through to Aviva, but the call disconnected which left Ms H 
feeling more distressed.
Ms H then received a call from a different adviser at Aviva. In this call he asked Ms H if 
anyone had talked her through checking her fuse box. When Ms H explained they hadnt, he 
talked her through what she needed to do. When Ms H did this, it became clear there wasnt 
a problem with the fuse box either. This adviser also said they wouldnt be able to get an 
engineer out that evening. This caused Ms H more distress and explained she needed 
someone to come that evening as she was desperate. This second adviser said hed see 
what could be done. And as Ms H didnt have a working landline, he offered to call her back 
to save the battery on her mobile phone.
The first adviser called Ms H, but she asked for the call to end as she was waiting for the 
second adviser to call her back about getting the matter sorted. The second adviser then 
called Ms H back and explained an engineer would be with her by 11pm. He wasnt fully 
aware of the engineers name, but he did provide the name of the company the engineer 
worked for and explained the engineer would have identification on him. Ms H asked for the 
engineers number, but Avivas adviser said this wasnt something he could share. She then 
asked for someone to call her by 11pm to ensure an engineer was with her, and said she 
was unhappy with the service shed received. The adviser explained that he would call Ms H 
at 11pm if he wasnt on another call. He also said that he would log a complaint on her 
behalf.
As requested, the second adviser called Ms H at 11pm to check the engineer had arrived. 
Ms H confirmed he had and that he was still trying to identify the fault. The adviser explained 
why he couldnt give her the engineers number when shed asked during the earlier call. 
Ms H asked what would happen with her complaint because she was unhappy with the time 
wasted making her check her meter and being put through to her electricity company. The 
adviser said Ms H would get a call from Avivas complaint team and explained how they deal 
with complaints.
Aviva investigated Ms Hs concerns and issued a final response, which they also discussed 
with Ms H on the phone. Aviva said that while they have a 24-hour turnaround to solve 
issues, they shouldnt have offered to send an engineer the following the evening as Ms H 
had no electricity or heating. They apologised and offered Ms H £110 in recognition of their 
mistake. 
Ms H didnt think this offer went far enough to acknowledge the distress she experienced. 
Aviva didnt think their offer needed to be increased, so Ms H brought her complaint to our 
service. When doing so, Ms H told us she was unhappy with the time it took for Aviva to deal 
with her claim, and the way Avivas advisers spoke to her.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. He agreed that Ms H shouldnt have been 
told an engineer wouldnt be available until the following evening. But he felt Avivas offer 
was fair because an engineer was sent out within three hours of Ms Hs power failing, and it 
was the power failure that was the main cause of her distress. Our investigator also felt 
Avivas advisers acted professionally in all the calls she had with them when trying to log her 
claim.
Ms H disagreed with our investigator, so her complaint was passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint. I know this isnt the 
outcome she hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons below.
Ive listened to all the calls Ms H had with Aviva on evening her home lost power. And from 
the start she made it made it clear that she was very worried about her circumstances. She 
also clearly explained her situation, which was that she lived on her own, was elderly, and 
was without light, heating and had limited power on her mobile phone. This means Avivas 
adviser was aware her circumstances were urgent from the start of the call  particularly as 
this happened in winter.One of Ms Hs concerns is that Avivas advisers wasted time when they asked questions 
about her smart meter and fuse box. Shes also unhappy they put her through to her energy 
supplier to look into her meter. Ms H feels this was inappropriate because her policy covers 
electrics and they were aware of the limited battery she had on her mobile phone. I 
appreciate Ms H was in an urgent situation, but I dont consider it was unreasonable for 
Avivas advisers to try and identify the problem. Thats because the fix may have been 
something simple that didnt require a call out  and in turn would have resolved the issue 
with her power in less time than it would have taken for an engineer to visit her property. 
They also had to identify if the issue was covered under her policy. While Ms Hs home 
emergency policy covered electrics, it didnt cover every eventuality. So, asking questions 
was inevitable in the situation Ms H found herself in.
Ive taken on board that Ms H was on the phone for a long time. And this would have been 
stressful given her phone had limited power. But having listened to the calls, Im not 
persuaded that Avivas advisers caused avoidable delays. I appreciate Ms H says she was 
on hold for around 30 minutes before getting to speaking to someone. However, Aviva has 
said their lines were busy at the time. On those occasions, there is little a business can do, 
so I dont think its fair to say Aviva acted unreasonably when earlier calls were answered 
before Ms Hs  I can only consider how they treated her during the calls. And as Ive said 
above, I consider the questions asked were reasonable in the circumstances. As such, I 
cant fairly say they wasted her time on the phone.
Ms H has also said shes unhappy with the way Avivas second adviser spoke her. She said 
his tone was unpleasant and made her feel silly. Ive listened to the calls between Ms H and 
the second adviser, and Ive not heard anything that made me consider his tone was 
unpleasant. If anything, he sounded very professional. I consider that he listened to Ms Hs 
concerns and took the time to explain how Ms H should check her fuse box. Having listened 
to the other calls, Im also of the opinion that the first adviser sounded professional too. So, I 
dont agree Aviva needs to do anything to put things right in respect of the tone used by their 
advisers.
Avivas level of service fell down when both of their advisers told Ms H an engineer wouldnt 
be available until the following evening. As mentioned above, Ms H made her circumstances 
clear on first contact with Aviva. That should have triggered their advisers to pro-actively try 
and get an engineer out to Ms H sooner. It wasnt fair that Ms H had to keep repeating how 
difficult her circumstances were. So, I can understand why Ms H found this very distressing. 
Avivas second adviser did manage to arrange for an engineer to visit Ms H that evening, 
and that was the right thing do to. But Ms H shouldnt have had to plead for this to happen.
Aviva acknowledged they could have handled things better. And they offered her £110 in 
recognition of the distress she experienced when she was told an engineer wasnt available 
that evening. Having considered everything, I consider this offer is reasonable and in line 
with what I would have awarded.
I dont deny that Ms H had a very distressing few hours when she lost power to her home. 
Given this happened, in winter, at night, with no heating, and at a time Ms H had limited 
power on her phone, I understand why she needed an engineer urgently. So being told 
someone couldnt visit until the following evening wasnt an appropriate response to her 
circumstances. But, for the reasons mentioned above, I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably 
by trying to find a solution that didnt involve an engineer. Just because there wasnt a simple 
fix, it doesnt mean their actions were wrong.An emergency in the home always comes with a level of stress and inconvenience. So, it 
wouldnt be fair for any award to reflect that. Ive had to take into consideration that just over 
one hour after Ms Hs power went out, she was told an engineer would be with her that 
evening. And in just under three hours of the power going, an engineer was in her home, 
and Avivas second adviser had called her back to ensure the engineer arrived on time. Its 
for this reason I consider the £110 Aviva offered, fairly reflects the distress Ms H 
experienced over the period she was led to believe an engineer wouldnt be with her that 
evening.
I understand Ms H didnt accept Avivas offer, and so the amount wasnt paid to her. If Ms H 
is now prepared to accept this, she will need to contact Aviva to arrange how she would like 
the £110 paid to her.
My final decision
My decision is that Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman