DRN-3380962
The complaint
Miss H has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted irresponsibly 
by allowing her an overdraft of £2,000 and that it is unfair NatWest can charge  interest on 
the account when she hasnt used it and she is trying to pay the outstanding balance off.
What happened
A year after Miss H graduated NatWest in accordance with the terms and conditions of her 
account started applying interest to her overdraft from October 2019.
Miss H complained to NatWest about this in September 2020 and as a gesture of goodwill it 
refunded £318 (the total amount that had been charged since the overdraft facility had 
become chargeable). This brought her overdraft back within its agreed limit of £2000. 
Following this Miss H only used the account once more and interest started to accumulate 
one again.
Miss H made a further complaint to NatWest in May 2021 that it was unfair she was being 
charged interest on her overdraft when she was trying to pay it back. She wished to pay 
back her overdraft in instalments and doesnt want to be charged any interest. NatWest said 
all charges were correctly applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account and as 
it had already refunded charges previously it wasnt able to provide another refund and 
advised her to contact its collections department to avoid further action on the account.
Miss H was unsatisfied with this  she wants NatWest to accept it lent irresponsibly and wipe 
the entire balance of the account. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think NatWest had done anything 
wrong. NatWest has since offered Miss H £150 to settle the complaint which Miss H has 
refused. She says she was ready to pay the £2000 back in instalments but that NatWests 
interest and charges would result in it cancelling out the payments she made towards it. So 
Miss H has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope Miss H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way I 
have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint  that Miss H doesnt think its fair NatWest applied 
charges to her overdraft when she is trying to pay it back  our rules allow me to do that.   
And having carefully considered everything, I think that what NatWest has already done and 
offered to settle Miss Hs complaint is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. 
Miss H is unhappy about the charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I 
want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various amounts NatWest 
charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs 
of the service provided.
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. And this also applies in regards to how a bank runs its 
business. I cannot make a bank change its systems or processes such as how debt 
repayment plans are agreed or how long a bank will wait to have a debt repaid. That said, 
while Im not looking at NatWests various charging structures or processes per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss H if it applied any interest, fees and charges 
to her account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have 
been aware Miss H was experiencing financial difficulty.
And having looked at Miss Hs complaint, it is not that she is suffering from financial 
difficulties, rather that she thinks NatWests charges for use of its overdraft facility are unfair. 
Having looked at Miss Hs statements I can see that she hasnt used her account since 
NatWest refunded all charges applied to it from when it became chargeable in October 2019 
 which brought her overdraft back within its limit. 
At this point Miss H was left with an outstanding balance to repay of funds which she used 
and benefitted from. But because she didnt make any payments towards this NatWest 
applied further interest in line with the terms and conditions of the account. I accept Miss H is 
unhappy with having to pay interest on money she borrowed, but NatWest hasnt done 
anything wrong here as I cant see since NatWest refunded its charges that Miss H has told 
it she is in financial difficulty. Indeed, she has said in her complaint that she was willing and 
able to pay back what she owed in instalments. 
So bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that what NatWest has already agreed to do for Miss 
H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do 
anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss H to decide whether she wishes to accept 
NatWests offer of £150.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im currently satisfied that what National Westminster Bank 
Plc has already agreed to do to put things right for Miss H is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of her case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman