DRN-2293730
The complaint
Mr R complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) avoided his car 
insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay a claim. 
References to Advantage include its agents in this matter and references to Mr R include 
Mrs R who has assisted in bringing this complaint to our service.
What happened
Mr R took out a car insurance policy with Advantage in 2018. The policy renewed in October 
2019 after Mr R had spoken to Advantage on the phone. During that call, he also updated 
them with his new address.
In 2020, the named driver had an accident in the car and Mr R tried to make a claim. 
Advantage said Mr R had answered the question they asked about motoring convictions 
incorrectly. This is because he had a conviction in August 2018 and one in August 2019 
which he hadnt declared when he took out the policy or when renewing it. Advantage 
considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation which entitled them to avoid his 
policy and decline his claim because of this. They also refunded the premium hed paid. 
Advantage apologised for using the wrong address for a letter in March 2020 which asked 
Mr R to explain why the convictions werent disclosed and paid him £50 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. But this didnt change its overall decision to avoid the policy.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. He was unhappy with Advantages decision to avoid his 
policy and refuse to pay the claim. Also, he was unhappy because Advantage had written to 
him at the wrong address.
Ultimately, our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. She agreed there had been a 
qualifying misrepresentation. But didnt think this was deliberate or reckless. She believed it 
was careless. She thought Advantage was entitled to avoid Mr Rs policy and decline his 
claim but would need to return the premium paid for the policy year 2019 to him.
Mr R doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He says that, whilst it was 
their mistake not informing the insurer about the convictions, it was Advantages careless 
mistake for having the wrong details on record. Also, they feel the insurer shouldve realised 
the information supplied wasnt correct. 
Our investigator explained applications are accepted in good faith, and its the consumers 
responsibility to ensure the correct information is provided when answering questions. So, 
this didnt change her opinion.
The matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage thinks Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he told them he hadnt had any motoring conviction in the last five years at the inception of 
the policy or on renewal when asked if hed had any motoring convictions in the last year 
and he said no.
Ive looked at what Mr R was asked at the 2019 policy renewal. The letter telling Mr R about 
the policy renewal being due soon says:
Your policy's based on these documents, so please check them and if you spot 
something that needs to change let us know straightaway.
When Mr R called to renew his policy, he was asked Have you made any claims or had any 
motoring convictions in the last year? He answers Nope and hes then asked the same 
question for the named driver when he also gave the same answer.
The covering letter sent to Mr R after the call when he renewed the policy asks him to check 
the details and let them know if anything needs to change, it also explains this forms the 
basis of the contract of insurance. On the statement of insurance, which is attached to this 
letter, it has a section called Convictions. Under this it says For all drivers named on this 
policy, we need to know of any driving related convictions, endorsements, fixed penalties, 
disqualifications or bans in the past five years. None disclosed.
I note Advantage sent some documents  such as the renewal confirmation letter  to Mr Rs 
previous address even though hed told them hed moved. But Advantage have shown this 
information was also sent to him by email so Im satisfied he had the opportunity to check 
this. Even so, Mr R had already made the misrepresentation at policy inception and on the 
phone at renewal. So, this doesnt change my decision.
Taking everything into account, I think Advantage made Mr R aware of the importance of 
ensuring the information provided is accurate and up to date.
I think a clear question about motoring convictions was asked and Mr R ought to have 
understood he needed to declare the convictions he had. Because of this, I believe Mr R failed to take reasonable care when answering this question. This is at both the start of the 
policy and on renewal.
Advantage has provided evidence in the form of their underwriting criteria which shows they 
wouldnt have offered Mr R cover for his renewal for 2019/20 if theyd been given the correct 
information. This means Im satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
If a misrepresentation isnt deliberate or reckless then CIDRA says its careless. Advantage 
has said Mr Rs misrepresentation was careless and I agree with this.
As a result, Ive looked at the actions Advantage can take in accordance with CIDRA. And 
Im satisfied Advantage was entitled to avoid Mr Rs policy from policy renewal in 2019. And, 
as this means  in effect  his policy as from the point of renewal never existed, Advantage 
does not have to deal with his claim following the accident the named driver was involved in. 
Taking everything into account, the above is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this 
complaint.
Im not ignoring Mr Rs comment that Advantage shouldve realised the misrepresentation 
sooner. But, as our investigator has explained, insurance policies are taken out on good faith 
and there is no requirement for an insurer to check the details provided to them until a claim 
is made. However, there is an obligation on the customer to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.
As Ive explained, I dont agree Advantage using the wrong address for Mr R changes the 
outcome here. I note theyve apologised and paid £50 to Mr R. I think this was a fair way to 
resolve this mistake so Im not asking them to do anything more in relation to this.
In summary, Advantage is entitled to avoid the policy and refuse to deal with Mr Rs claim for 
the accident. They sent evidence theyve refunded the premium to Mr R for the policy year 
2019/20. So, theres nothing more for them to do in this matter.
I understand Mr R feels strongly about this matter and Im sorry this decision will be a 
disappointment to him, especially at a time when he and his family is already feeling very 
distressed by this situation. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute 
with Advantage  can do.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman