DRN-3941565
The complaint
Mrs W says the advice Canter Holland Ltd (CHL) gave her in March 2016 has or will cause 
her to incur higher tax liabilities in respect of her pension than shouldve been the case.
Mrs W is represented by X-Claims Limited (XCL).
What happened
I start by noting that the advice complained about was provided to Mrs and Mr W. As this 
related to their individual pension provisions, then a case has been set-up for each to deal 
separately with their own position.
According to notes of a meeting between Mrs W, her husband and CHL on 8 March 2016 
and a follow-up email of 10 March 2016, they had approximately £270,000 cash in their 
limited company available for distribution. The main focus of discussion was their options for 
utilising these funds.
A financial review was conducted for Mrs and Mr W and its recorded that their top priority 
was to make provision for their retirement. And in so doing: to make tax efficient investment 
from their limited company; to invest for the long-term; to adopt a high risk investment 
outlook; and to boost retirement funds. They both signed the review to acknowledge its 
contents at the end of March 2016.
At the time of the advice Mrs W was aged 42, married with two dependent children. Her 
expected income in 2016 was £90,000 a year from her public service. The family home was 
worth around £1 million with an outstanding mortgage of about £300,000. There were no 
other significant liabilities. Mrs and Mr W also held other savings and investments aside from 
their occupational pension scheme (OPS) provisions. 
Mrs Ws OPS had a normal retirement date of 60 for her pre-April 2015 membership. And 
her retirement horizon was said to be 67.
CHLs recommendations to Mrs and Mr W were recorded in the following terms:
-Draw dividends from your limited company that will be sufficient for your house 
renovations, ISA contribution this year for Mr W (£15,240) and ISA contributions for 
you both in the next tax year (£30,480).
-Make pension contributions for you both in this tax year at a level you feel 
appropriate from the limited company
-Invest your ISA's (both existing and proposed) in a portfolio of funds managed by 
Canter Holland at a risk level 5. This is based on the long-term investment timescale 
for your pensions and is the level of risk your current ISAs are invested.
In August 2020 XCL complained to CHL about the recommendations it had made to Mrs W. 
The points raised by Mrs Ws representative about her case have evolved during its journey.
Ill be focussing on the matter she brought to this Service, which was about the advice she 
received in March 2016.
Mrs W was primarily concerned about CHLs advice around the lifetime allowance (LTA) 
calculations. But later she has broadened her complaint points to encompass matters such 
as a potential HMRC avoidance enquiry into her personal pension contribution; the impact of 
CHLs advice on her Enhanced Protection; and issues with her annual allowance. In 
particular, what her representative asserts is consequent exposure to actual and/or potential 
increased tax liabilities, that could otherwise have been managed better or avoided. XCL 
also says it advised her to liquidate her company and questions whether this was best 
advice.
CHL issued its final response to Mrs W on 18 September 2020 and provided subsequent 
clarifications as her complaint developed. It refuted her complaint points. For example, it said 
it had followed appropriate guidance in calculating her annual allowance position. It said she 
was aware of the risks of exceeding her LTA in the future. It didnt think HMRC would 
challenge the basis of her pension contribution in April 2016 - it had followed tax rules. Her 
Enhanced Protection had been lost when she joined her employers new occupational 
scheme. And that it had not provided her with advice about liquidating her company.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. He said he hadnt been provided with 
evidence of her incurring an annual allowance tax charge as a direct result of CHLs advice 
in March 2016. He concluded that given how far away Mrs W was from retirement and the 
potential for future changes to the LTA tax regime, it wasnt possible to say whether shell be 
worse off as a result of the decisions she took to open a personal pension in 2016. No 
evidence had been provided of an avoidance investigation by HMRC into her 2016 pension 
contribution. And he thought CHL had told Mrs W to discuss the status of her business with 
her accountant.
XCL on Mrs Ws behalf disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. It re-
iterated the arguments previously made and provided further information in support of her 
case.
As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators view, Mrs Ws complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh. I issued provisional decisions in November 2022 and January 2023. At 
each stage both parties have provided further detailed submissions and commentary on 
each others positions. 
Im grateful for all submissions to what is a complex, highly contested and finely balanced 
complaint. Ive reviewed the information and arguments received carefully in arriving at this 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint, but not to the extent shed like. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by CHL for Mrs W. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like CHL. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
Turning firstly to the matter of the calculation of Mrs Ws annual allowance position in 2016. 
In my first provisional decision I said I was puzzled about why CHL and Mrs W were at such 
a variance about the correct calculation of her annual allowance between 2012/13 and 
2015/16. Broadly speaking, this was something that shouldve been a matter of fact. I invited 
both parties to provide detailed feedback on the workings of the other parties calculations. 
In deciding to uphold this element of Mr Ws complaint in January 2023, I said:
I should make it clear at this point  its not the role of this Service to check detailed 
calculations or test different technical methodologies. That said, I think both submissions 
have been helpful in getting to the nub of this issue.
I think there was something wrong in how CHL approached the calculation of Mr Ws annual 
allowance position in 2016. It used incorrect information about his employer pay, taking his 
salary in 2014/15 as the basis for all its calculations. This meant it was significantly adrift, 
because the records show Mr Ws relevant earnings had been far from steady
The main caveat I would place on my finding here is that pension data provided today can 
mask adjustments made during the lifetime of the scheme. Such changes, if there have been 
any, dependent on when they occur, how they apply and are reflected in the figures, would 
need to be considered. It wouldnt be fair to hold CHL responsible for matters it couldnt 
possibly have known in 2016.
For the avoidance of doubt, although CHL has previously argued it was difficult to obtain 
certain information from his employer about scheme benefits. The letter from his OPS 
provider which indicated such only related the 2015 scheme. And the proper methodology to 
assess the annual allowance position was driven by his annual salary  I think this basic 
information was more likely than not available at the time of providing him with advice, and 
certainly for prior years.
I think CHLs approach, although significantly flawed for the reasons Ive already set out, did 
provide some recognition of Mr Ws 2015 OPS benefits. But the data extract hes provided 
from his OPS is also interesting because it shows as well as CHL needing to consider his 
new active 2015 OPS, his then deferred section 95 benefits would also still accrue 
additional value, which counted towards his annual allowance calculations. This effect isnt 
captured anywhere in its advice to Mr W.Further, I mentioned in my first provisional decision that I wouldve expected to have seen 
some reference from CHL to the new tapering arrangements for the annual allowance in its 
advice to Mr W in March 2016. These were introduced by Government from 2016/17.
XCL had said that by using up all Mr Ws carry-forward of annual allowance entitlement in 
2015/16, this impacted on his position in future years. I said it hadnt made a telling case that 
taking his maximum annual allowance entitlement in 2015/16, was less beneficial to him 
than spreading his allowance over future years. But given the information and arguments Mr 
W has made subsequently, I think this omission assumes more significance.
CHLs approach to working out Mrs Ws annual allowance position in 2016 was similar to 
that used for Mr W. So, it follows that Im also upholding this element of her complaint. Ive 
set out considerations and proposals on assessing loss, if any, under the section on putting 
things right. 
Next Ill turn to Mrs Ws concerns about her LTA and the potential for her to incur higher tax 
in the future if she exceeds the limit at that time.
Its fair to say theres been a degree of policy change in this area over the years. The LTA 
was introduced in 2006 setting a maximum value of benefits someone could receive without 
a tax penalty at £1.5m. This increased each year until 2010-11, when it reached £1.8m. The 
Government decided to reduce the LTA in 2012-13 when it was set at £1.5m. In 2014-2015 it 
fell to £1.25m. In 2016-17 the LTA was set at £1.0m and for a short period was then 
increased annually to take account of inflation. Its current policy to freeze the allowance until 
2025/26  but these matters are subject to review with each budget or fiscal event.
When XCL made Mrs Ws complaint in August 2020 it said:
In 2016 she was advised to make a contribution to a private pension when the reality is that 
her [OPS] will use all of her LTA; this clearly could have been avoided if a forecast to Normal 
Retirement Age of her [OPS] pension benefits had been made.
It is also most likely that Mrs W will exceed her LTA with the [OPS] scheme on its own, 
particularly when taking into account future growth figures produced annually, in addition to 
her pension contributions. This will have future implications in extra tax due
XCLs argument isnt without merit. But I dont think the position it asserts is as clear cut as it 
suggests.
In framing its advice to Mrs W about this matter, CHL said the following to her:
although we feel that your pension benefits will be close to the Lifetime Allowance at 
retirement we feel it is unlikely that they will breach the Lifetime Allowance (LTA). This 
accounts for some assumptions, the main two being that you remain in [the occupational] 
scheme until retirement and salary increases at 2.5% per annum together with the Lifetime 
Allowance increasing at 2.5% per annum from April 2019.
These seem reasonable assumptions at the time.
Asked what options it considered for utilising Mrs Ws available funds in 2016, CHL told this 
Service:
We considered all alternatives to a personal pension for Mrs W, but concluded that   was 
the most appropriate option for meeting her objective of minimising tax upon withdrawing 
funds that were held within her limited company.Payments into a personally held ISA, Collective Investment Account, Enterprise Investment 
Scheme or Venture Capital Trust would have required Mrs W to draw funds from her limited 
company first, incurring income tax and potentially National Insurance liabilities.
If funds had been withdrawn as a salary then, for the 2015/16 tax year, the income tax rate 
for Mrs W would have been 40% and/or 45% (with potential loss of her Personal Allowance 
with earnings in excess of £100,000), whilst National Insurance liabilities would have 
included 13.8% employer National Insurance and 2% employee National Insurance (on 
earnings above £42,380).
If the funds had been withdrawn as a dividend, then the income tax rates at the time would 
have been 32.5% and/or 37.5% and the company would have been liable for 20% 
corporation tax (on the declared profit that dividends could be paid from).
An ISA or Collective Investment Account investment would not have generated any 
immediate tax relief to offset these income tax and National Insurance liabilities. We also 
note that Mrs W had already fully utilised her 2015/16 ISA allowance prior to engaging with 
Canter Holland, as confirmed in our email of 10th March 2016, and Mrs W went on to fully 
fund her ISA for the 2016/17 and subsequent tax years too, from personal funds.
An investment into an Enterprise Investment Scheme or Venture Capital Trust would have 
generated initial income tax relief of 30%, however, this would still have not fully offset the 
income tax and National Insurance liabilities. More importantly we deem EIS and VCT 
investments as very high risk and illiquid products that were not commensurate with Mrs Ws 
attitude to investment risk.
In contrast, the employer contribution into a Personal Pension created no tax or National 
Insurance liabilities, either personally or for the limited company.
The problem for XCL in making its case are the number of uncertainties between the point of 
the advice and when Mrs Ws pension benefits are likely to be assessed against the LTA, 
which will be between 19-26 years hence.
For example, theres an argument that as Mrs W was 42 and was in a demanding profession 
she wouldnt have waited until she was, say, 67 to start drawing her pension benefits. Earlier 
retirement would have implications for contributions and might lead to an actuarial reduction 
of her benefits. Of course, when Mrs W actually decides to retire is a matter of conjecture.
Im also mindful of the strong position of Mrs W and her household finances, including her 
varied holdings. In such circumstances its possible she will ultimately decide not to take the 
benefits from her personal pension. While these sit in the plan they are treated as being 
outside of her estate and so not subject to inheritance tax liabilities. And there could be tax 
advantages to any potential beneficiaries, subject to circumstance.
I think its more likely than not it was CHL which introduced the possibility the LTA could be 
abolished in the future. It was an odd speculation, especially given what was known about 
this policy area at the time. However, I dont think Mrs W was left in any doubt about the 
likely position with her LTA. In its advice to Mrs W on 10 March 2016, CHL said:
"We feel that if you make a pension contribution it is likely that, together with your 
[occupational] pensions, your benefits will exceed the LTA in the future. Any pension 
benefits in excess of the LTA (when taken) will be subject to a tax charge of up to 55%.
There is an argument that the LTA may no longer be in existence in the future, but making a 
pension contribution is a gamble that the LTA is abolished at some point in the future and 
there is no guarantee this will be the case. You may also feel that by taking the funds 
personally and them being subject to personal and corporation tax (instead of a pension 
contribution) that the tax position is "neutral'' when compared to the LTA charge of 55%"I think CHL made clear the risks of making a personal pension contribution in March 2016.
Mrs W has around 18 years until she reaches 67. We dont know when she will actually 
retire. We dont know when she will take the benefits. We dont know what the various tax 
and pension allowances will be at that time. We dont know what the relative performance of 
the investment options foregone by Mrs W in 2016 will be in 2041. And we dont know what 
effect mitigations taken between now and when Mrs W retires will be on any excess 
exposure she has to her overall tax bill.
Given the moving parts here, clearly Mrs W cant evidence a crystalised overall loss (or gain) 
at this time in relation to the advice CHL gave her to make a pension contribution in March 
2016 and the impact on her LTA. Nor can she project such with any confidence.
So, given this backdrop, it would be unreasonable for me to direct CHL to make an award of 
compensation to Mrs W around the complaint she raises about her LTA exposure.
In an earlier submission to this Service Mrs W said:
By advising on a personal pension contribution Enhanced Protectionwas immediately lost 
and I see no discussion of the risks involved. Obviously, had Enhanced Protection been kept 
there would have been no lifetime allowance charge at all on the [OPS] Pension at 
retirement. I would expect the adviser to have drawn my attention to this significant fact.
This matter was addressed by the Investigator previously. CHL told this Service (bolding is 
my emphasis):
We would firstly like to provide reassurance that Mrs Ws Enhanced Protection was 
considered at length. In our email of 27th November 2015 we stated that I would like to 
further investigate your Enhanced Protection. It is not uncommon to see individuals with your 
earnings and likely career in the [OPS] apply for Enhanced Protection - this affords 
individuals an unlimited cap on pension benefits. Enhanced Protection will be lost if personal 
contributions are made or if the increase in benefits in a defined pension scheme (ie: the 
OPS]) exceed certain limits.
In our email of 18th December 2015 we stated that I am keen to explore further your 
Enhanced Protection as this will shape recommendations regarding funds held within the 
business. After careful research and analysis, we ultimately concluded that Mrs W had 
already lost her Enhanced Protection prior to engaging Canter Holland, as a result of 
joining the new [OPS] in March 2015 (which pre-dated any communication with Canter 
Holland by several months).
We notified Mrs W of this during our meeting on 8th March 2016 and provided her with 
[OPS] Pensions factsheet Lifetime Allowance: Loss of Enhanced Protection and Fixed 
Protection 2012 and 2014 because of the 2015 [OPS] Pension Scheme
Our written agenda for the meeting on 8th March also notes that Pensions (Enhanced 
Protection)  EP was lost in March 2015 when you both joined the [new OPS] scheme. And 
we further confirmed this to Mr W in our email of 10th March 2016, clarifying that you no 
longer have Enhanced Protection.
Mrs W hasnt engaged further on this complaint point, which seems relatively clear cut. 
Theres no evidence that CHLs actions led to her loss of her Enhanced Protection.
Turning to the issue of a potential tax avoidance challenge from HMRC about the 
contribution to Mrs Ws personal pension in 2016. CHL confirmed it had considered this 
matter carefully. It said:At the time of making the pension contribution Mrs W held 50% of the companys Ordinary 
share capital and, alongside her husband, was one of two directors of [X Limited]As such 
Mrs W had the ability to decide how she was remunerated, with her employer pension 
contribution forming part of this remuneration.
In accordance with the guidance in HMRCs Business Income Manual 
BIM46035 - Specific deductions: pension schemes: wholly & exclusively: controlling 
directors & shareholders, we considered that the contribution for Mrs W met the 
requirements of being wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business. HRMC 
guidance makes it clear that pension contributions will normally pass the wholly and 
exclusively test and qualify for tax relief and that it will be relatively rare in the context of 
pension contributions to have to consider whether there is a non-trade purpose for the 
employers decision to make the contribution
BIM46030 - Specific deductions: pension schemes: wholly & exclusively: introduction. In the 
unlikely event of HMRC challenging the size of the contribution/remuneration package for 
Mrs W then we are confident that there were valid commercial grounds for making this 
pension contribution. [X Limited] had not previously made any employer pension 
contributions for its directors and it had built up significant cash reserves enabling it to make 
large pension contributions. The contribution of £80,000 for Mrs W was also broadly 
commensurate with a contribution of £100,000 made for her husband one day earlier, on 
31st March 2016, indicating proportionality across both company directors. We would also 
like to point out that the company accounts for [X Limited] were prepared by Mr and Mrs Ws 
accountants and signed off by the company directors. Had there been any concern around 
the validity of the employer contribution(s), we would fully expect the accountants to have 
raised this at the time of drafting the accounts and to have advised the directors accordingly, 
in their role as the companys representatives in dealings with HMRC.
I note Mrs W hasnt provided evidence of an HMRC investigation into her personal pension 
contribution in 2016. And so, based on the evidence presented by both parties, it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to uphold this element of her complaint either.
Finally, in responding to the Investigators view, XCL questioned the validity of advising Mrs 
and Mr W to liquidate their company and put all the funds into pensions, where the company 
wasnt paying a salary to the client. It questioned whether this was best advice. 
CHL said:
We are not accountants so we did not tell [Mrs W] to stop using the business for trading 
income. Our only recommendation was that [she] should discuss the continuation of the 
limited company with her accountant (who was independent from Canter Holland).
In our email of 7th November 2016 we actually encouraged [Mrs W] that our advice is to 
hold with the limited company for now until you have spoken with your accountant. In our 
email of 8th November 2016 we concluded that any winding up of the limited company was 
certainly something that requires further discussion with your accountant  we would be 
happy to be party to this if you felt it appropriate.
Although we offered to take part in any discussions with [Mrs Ws] accountant, we ultimately 
were not invited to have any further input and so any decision to subsequently liquidate the 
company or to stop using the business for trading income was made by [Mrs W and her 
husband] and/or her accountant without further input from Canter Holland.
Its clear there was discussion between Mrs and Mr W and CHL about the status of their 
company. But I also think its reasonably clear CHL set out the boundaries of its expertise 
and signposted her to other professionals to get advice on this matter.Putting things right
Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint in respect of what happened with regard to her annual 
allowance position, but nothing further. My aim is to return her to the position shed have 
been in now, or as close as reasonably possible, had it not been for the failings of Canter 
Holland Ltd.
Perhaps unsurprisingly the position of Mrs W and CHL on the matter of loss are far apart. 
The proposal I make to assess any financial detriment wont be perfectly satisfactory to 
either party.
So, for example, Im assuming Mrs W wouldve taken funds from her company in 2016, one 
way or another, whereas her favoured scenarios suggest shed have kept funds in the 
company. Ill be assuming Mrs W takes benefits from her pension, CHL will no doubt 
observe the possibility that she incurs no tax and funds pass to beneficiaries on a 
preferential basis.
Redress isnt often a scientific matter. Im conscious of the need to avoid the benefit of 
hindsight. Nevertheless, I believe my proposals are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
The framework for the redress Im going to use is based on what we know from 
contemporaneous evidence. That is Mrs Ws objectives and requirements in 2016 were 
clear. Her priority was planning for retirement. Mrs and Mr W wanted to take excess funds 
from the business. Context for this mayve been discussions underway about the possible 
liquidation of the company.
As the Investigator noted, its rare we would say investing in a personal pension was 
unsuitable due to the necessity of providing for the future. However, CHL didnt give Mrs W 
the full facts concerning her annual allowance, indeed it led her to believe she had plenty of 
headroom, when it seems she may not have. This was a material consideration that 
shouldve been weighed with other alternatives for utilising funds from the business for her 
personal benefit. But we also need to recognise these alternatives wouldve come with their 
own tax consequences.
CHLs advice to Mrs W in 2016 indicated the lead alternative to a pension contribution was 
taking dividends from the company (and presumably investing these). So this was the 
comparator I proposed should be used in considering what if any redress was required. This 
would need to consider not only the impact of upfront taxes and reliefs for each option, and 
the effects of these on investment returns, but also the effect of these matters when 
withdrawing benefits. Certain assumptions would have to be made and that wasnt a 
straight-forward matter.
Mrs W thought my proposal on redress wasnt right. She said:
The proposed framework for redress relies on two assumptions that would not have been 
prudent at the time. The first assumption is that I would be taking money out of the company, 
secondly that the company was to be liquidated. Neither of these assumptions are correct.
The advice sought in 2016 was to determine how best to use company funds for retirement 
planning. There was no specific decision nor necessity to withdraw funds from the company. 
It should be noted that the alternative scenario of keeping money within the company is 
documented to have been discussed with CHL; as referenced in the recent provisional 
decision regarding my complaint - I can see one alternative scenario she indicated earlier 
was to have kept funds in the company. Therefore the assumption that I would have taken 
funds from the company in 2016 is incorrect.Indeed, withdrawing funds would have been inadvisable in those circumstances. CHL did 
not advise me to liquidate the company. Nor did we do so.
If withdrawal of funds from the company as dividends had been advised in 2016, that advice 
would, in and of itself, have been questionable. It would have made me liable to immediate 
dividend tax and would not have been compatible with my stated investment aims of tax-
efficient long term investment. Such advice would have been in breach of Principle 6 of the 
Principles of Business as outlined in the FCA handbook, which requires a firm to pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers.
Funds withdrawn from the company in 2016 would have been subject to dividend tax. In 
addition, this could also lead to increased annual allowance charges due to the tapering of 
AA thresholds with higher incomes.
If funds were managed within the company, tax would only have been payable at the end of 
the investment term. Funds invested within the company would have numerous advantages 
if not held in a pension scheme (eg. no effect on Annual Allowance pension tax charges, no 
effect on potential lifetime allowance charges and ease of access at any age). As alluded to 
in the more recent provisional decision and owing to the parallel circumstance to my 
husbands position, the investment advice given has indeed had an impact on my annual 
allowance tax liability as it voided any potential carry over of annual allowance entitlement to 
subsequent years.
Shares in the company could also have been passed to my beneficiaries, thus allowing a 
facility for long term planning if not realised.
In responding to substantively the same argument put forward for redress from Mr W, CHL 
said:
Mr W states that his alternative to making a pension contribution or drawing dividends 
would have been to invest funds within his companyand that this should be the 
comparator option used.
We disagree with Mr W and do not feel that this is a realistic comparator. Although it clearly 
was an option in 2016, it was not an option that [he] seriously considered at the time, nor is it 
an option that ourselves or Mr Ws company accountant would have been likely to 
recommend.
Investing such significant sums through [his business] would have almost certainly changed 
the company status in HMRCs view from being a Trading Company to being an Investment 
Company. Investment Companies are subject to Corporation Tax on the income and gains 
received from the investments they hold and so Mr W is wrong to state that tax would only 
have been payable at the end of the investment term  Corporation Tax would either be 
payable on investment income and gains each company year or (if the limited company 
qualifies as a micro-entity) at the point of any withdrawal. This is far less beneficial than the 
gross (tax-free) growth available within a personal pension scheme.
Furthermore, Mr W would still need to withdraw the funds from the company in the future. 
Mr W previously stated that he would do so by liquidating his limited company at retirement 
and utilising Business Asset Disposal Relief (formerly Entrepreneurs Relief) to pay Capital 
Gains Tax at the reduced rate of 10%...[but] Business Asset Disposal Relief is only available 
to Trading Companies and not to Investment Companies. Mr W would therefore be liable to 
Capital Gains Tax largely at the higher rate of 28% (at the time of our advice in 2016).
Alternatively Mr W could have drawn funds from the company periodically, pre or post 
retirement, as he suggests in his most recent response. Such withdrawals would attract the 
same Dividend Taxation, or Income tax and National Insurance liabilities, that [he] says he 
was so keen to avoid. We feel that this is therefore a moot point as such taxes would seemingly always be payable at some stage  either upon dividend withdrawals at the outset 
in 2016 (as per your proposed scenario) or upon dividend/salary withdrawals in later years.
Mr W also states that Shares in the company could also have been passed to my 
beneficiaries, thus allowing a facility for long term planning if not realised. Estate planning 
has not been a significant factor in Mr Ws complaint thus far, but as he raises the matter we 
feel that it is prudent to point out that by investing within his limited company and turning it 
into an Investment Company, [it] would no longer qualify for Business Relief (formerly 
Business Property Relief) in the event of [his] death. This change means that his 
beneficiaries would likely be deprived of 100% relief against Inheritance Tax on Mr Ws 
shares in [his company] as this relief is generally only available to Trading Companies and 
not to Investment Companies. Conversely, Mr Ws personal pension is outside of his estate 
for Inheritance Tax purposes and in the event of his death funds can be passed to his 
beneficiaries with no Inheritance Tax liabilities.
Finally and ironically, we note that Mr W states CHL did not advise me to liquidate the 
company. This is quite confusing as until very recently a key point in his complaint was 
precisely that we had advised him to liquidate the company! This complete reversal could be 
somewhat amusing, were it not for the frustration of how much time and effort all parties 
have spent corresponding on this point. Nonetheless, we are pleased that Mr W is now in 
agreement with our position on the matter.
I note that in his last submission Mr W said CHLs argument about the status of his company 
changing from trading to an investment status if hed invested available funds through it was 
wrong:
The purpose of my investments was to fund retirement. As such, the limited company would 
clearly no longer be required when I retire. It would be prudent, tax ecient, legal and wise 
to have invested within the company for retirement, draw down the invested funds to cash 2 
years prior to winding up the company and then realise the funds. As long as there was no 
investment activity within the last 2 years of trading, Business Asset Disposal Relief (BADR) 
is entirely sensible and legal.
For completeness, I have also had the chance to conrm this fact with my Independent 
Financial Adviser and also with my specialist tax accountant. They have conrmed both 
current precedent and legality for this approach.
I think these exchanges have been helpful in the sense that they illustrate the matters here 
are technical, specialist and cover different personal and business tax regimes. They also 
exhibit different professional opinions about what wouldve been the best strategy for Mrs 
and Mr W to have followed. 
I reiterate  its not the role of this Service to weigh alternative tax planning methods.
Further, these submissions come several years after the event, and while I am sure they 
express genuine views of alternative futures from a 2016 staring point, Im bound to be 
mindful of the influence of hindsight. If we consider the dynamic nature of personal and 
business taxation alone over the period since the advice, had such changes been foreseen 
its more likely than not they would have a significant influence on any advice.
I tend to place more weight on evidence contemporaneous with the events complained 
about. 
Following a meeting between Mrs and Mr W in November 2015, CHL confirmed in a follow-
up email one of their objectives was to look at the most tax efficient use of the funds 
currently held in their business. It was noted that:One of the most tax efficient uses of funds held within a company is to make pension 
contributions for its directors/employees. These are treated as a business expense and are 
not subject to corporation tax - the individual also pays no personal taxation on the 
contributions. We would need to be mindful of any future pension contributions due to your 
Enhanced Protection.
According to a meeting agenda dated 8 March 2016 held between Mrs and Mr W and CHL 
the main topic for discussion was expressed in the following terms:
1. Limited Company:
Use of company funds: There is over £200,000 within the limited company which you would 
like to utilise in a tax efficient way. I believe you have two options:
i. Pay funds as a dividend to receive £138,029.86 (2015/16) or £124,811.69 (2016/17)
ii. Pay £200,000 to allocate to your pension accounts.
Considerations:
-Use of funds (if taken now, if invested to pension)
-Term of investment
-Lifetime Allowance (LTA)
-Inheritance v LTA (estate planning)
-Investment returns v tax
On 10 March 2016 CHL provided a follow-up email which included the following notes of 
their conversation:
[Mr Ws] limited company is holding about £275,000 as cash and we discussed the 
options of how to use this in the most tax efficient way, if you are to take any dividends, this 
should be done in this tax year before the changes (and ultimate increase) in the dividend 
tax. The other option is to make a pension contribution for one or both of you.
Making a pension contribution from a limited company is the most tax efficient way of 
moving funds from a limited company in your own name. We feel that if you make a pension 
contribution it is likely that together with your NHS pensions your benefits will exceed the 
LTA in the future. Any pension benefits in excess of the LTA (when taken) will be subject to 
a tax charge of up to 55%. There is an argument that the LTA may no longer be in existence 
in the future, but making a pension contribution is a gamble that the LTA is abolished at 
some point in the future and there is no guarantee this will be the case. You may also feel 
that by taking the funds personally and them being subject to personal and corporation tax 
(instead of a pension contribution) that the tax position is "neutral" when compared to the 
LTA charge of 55%.
Later in March 2016, Mrs and Mr W signed a financial review form. This confirmed their top 
priority was to make provision for their retirement. And in so doing to: 
- Make tax efficient investment from the limited company.
- Invest for the long-term.
- Adopt a high-risk investment outlook; and 
- Boost retirement funds.
So, while the information from the time of the events complained about is far from perfect, 
the pattern established in whats available leads me to conclude on balance that its more likely than not extraction of funds from the business was the main focus for the advice she 
and her husband sought.
I note that when Mrs Ws complaint was brought to this Service, one of the key complaint 
points made was that CHL had advised she and her husband liquidate their business. As 
Ive already found, its clear there was discussion between the parties about the status of her 
company. But I also think its reasonably clear CHL set out the boundaries of its expertise 
and signposted her to her accountant to seek further advice on the matter. Leaving aside 
that Mrs W seems to face in a different direction on this point now, I note in Mr Ws most 
recent submission he has also drawn on the opinion of a specialist tax accountant.
I think this is important because in the matters Mrs and Mr W were seeking advice on in 
2015/16 there was clearly a strong interconnection between their personal and company 
requirements. Effective communications between their financial advisers and their 
accountant wouldve been paramount. I can see that CHL suggested discussions between it, 
the accountant and their mutual clients. But no evidence of such communication has been 
provided. I think such liaison wouldve been important given Mrs and Mr Ws circumstances. 
They held the ring here and so must take some responsibility.
It follows that I dont agree with Mrs Ws alternative proposal on redress. And so neither do I 
find it necessary to make provision for a specialist actuarial firm to make the calculations. I 
think what Ive set out should be relatively straight-forward for CHL to deliver.
So, Im requiring Canter Holland Ltd to assess any loss using the following framework.
Step one  assess the notional value of Mrs Ws equivalent funds, had she taken dividends 
from the company and invested these, instead of making pension contributions: 
i. Assume the funds Mrs W took from the company for her personal pension 
contributions in 2015/16 as advised by it, had instead been taken as dividends as 
soon as possible after its advice, and in the most tax-efficient manner.
ii. Calculate returns to these funds, had they been invested in the same holdings and in 
the same proportions as her personal pension, but instead within the most tax-
efficient alternative investment wrapper available to her, taking into account any 
existing investments that mayve used some or all the available reliefs and 
allowances. For estimating returns beyond the date of my final decision, given Mrs 
Ws risk appetite, it should assume FCAs higher rate applies. Her recorded 
preference at the point of advice for retirement at the age of 67. It should assess any 
notional tax due on returns and withdrawal of benefits, assumed to be taken in 
broadly equal instalments until average life expectancy as calculated by the Office for 
National Statistics.
Step two assess the projected value of Mrs Ws existing personal pension
i. Drawing on the existing value of Mrs Ws personal pension and using the same 
assumptions as per step one in relation to future rates of return, age of retirement 
and the horizon for taking benefits, CHL should derive a comparator projection. It 
should assess notional tax due on returns and withdrawal of benefits, for example we 
know she is likely to be a higher-rate taxpayer in retirement given her OPS benefits.
ii. Im not aware Mrs W has made further contributions to her pension (other than the 
disputed transactions). Nor whether shes taken any benefits or paid funds from it for 
matters not directly related to her complaint. After confirming the detailed position, 
then the value CHL obtains or the calculations it makes can assume these 
adjustments would still have occurred and on the same dates. The adjusted, as 
appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mrs Ws fund had she taken dividends and invested these, and the projected value of her personal 
pension will be her basic loss.
What Ive proposed doesnt mean Mrs W wouldve utilised the excess business funds in the 
way Ive set out. Rather, its a reasonable proxy based on my findings and conclusions for 
what couldve happened and a basis to compare potential financial outcomes.
So, discounted cash-flow calculations are required to compare each step. If the value arrived 
at from step one is higher than the value at step two, Mrs W has suffered a loss and that is 
the basic sum Canter Holland Ltd will need to pay her as redress. If the value of step two is 
greater than step one, she hasnt suffered financial detriment as a result of its failings.
CHL will need to provide Mrs W with details of its calculations in a clear format.
Distress and inconvenience
When Im considering a complaint like Mrs Ws, I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation where failings have occurred, separate from pure financial loss. This isnt 
intended to fine or punish a business  which is the job of the regulator. But when 
somethings gone wrong, recognition of the emotional and practical impact can make a real 
difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Canter Holland Ltd.s actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience 
or upset. Its clear to me that this was the case here.
Mrs W has been caused trouble in trying to get to the bottom of the effect of Canter Holland 
Ltd.s failings in the advice it gave her in 2016. I require it to make a payment of £300 to her 
in recognition of such.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint, but not to the extent 
shed like. If she accepts my decision then Canter Holland Ltd will need to put things right in 
the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman