DRN-4462779
The complaint
Miss B complains about a decision taken by HSBC UK Bank Plc (First Direct) to decline 
her overdraft application.
Miss B is represented in her complaint by a third party. But for ease I will simply refer to 
Miss B in this decision rather than Miss B and her representative.
What happened
In June 2023 Miss B applied to First Direct for an overdraft facility of £250 on her current 
account, which was declined. 
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of or investigators who came to the view that 
First Direct had done nothing wrong.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators view so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall outcome as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has 
already been said. 
As our investigator has previously explained, it isnt for this service to interfere with a 
business commercial decision making. Our service is set up to resolve individual disputes 
based on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case  not to investigate or 
regulate a businesss processes and practices. That is for the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority, to do.
 
However, our service can look to see if Miss B was treated fairly when she applied for her 
overdraft. That is, we can see what information was taken into account and consider whether 
Miss B has been treated any differently to other First Direct customers. And based on the 
submissions available to me, in the circumstances of this case, I think First Direct has 
treated Miss B fairly.
 
Miss Bs initial application was automatically declined by First Directs systems and so she 
requested the application be reviewed again. First Direct did this by passing the application 
to its underwriters for further consideration. I can see from the submissions that First Directs 
underwriters concluded the overdraft wasnt affordable for Miss B and it didnt meet its 
lending criteria.
I understand Miss B feels that First Direct should have approved her application, but that is 
First Directs decision to make not Miss Bs. As Ive explained, it isnt for our service to tell 
First Direct when they should lend. And First Direct have to consider their responsibilities 
and obligations as a lender  including ensuring that theyre satisfied an overdraft is 
affordable for someone. In this case, First Direct, in line with its lending criteria - concluded 
the overdraft wasnt affordable for Miss B.
 
I would also add that having considered First Directs submissions Im satisfied that it took 
everything into account about Miss Bs personal and financial circumstances, including what 
Miss B says were grounds for her application to have been approved, before it took the 
decision to decline her application. 
So, in summary, I can confirm that Ive not seen anything to suggest that Miss B has been 
treated unfairly or any differently to other First Direct customers when First Direct applied its 
lending criteria.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would add that having listened to two call 
recordings provided by First Direct Im satisfied that First Direct acted professionally in all its 
dealings with Miss B and it certainly didnt intentionally to mean to insult her.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman