DRN-3982273
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt pay him a switching bonus when he switched to 
an account with them.
What happened
In June 2022 Mr S switched his bank account to an advanced account with HSBC. He was 
incentivised to switch accounts via an online advert he saw which said he could receive 
£170 switching bonus. 
In July 2022 Mr S complained to HSBC as he hadnt received the switching bonus and was 
unhappy that he had also lost the benefits of his previous account. HSBC said that Mr S 
didnt qualify for the bonus as it was only for new customers who have not held an account 
with them since 1 January 2019. 
Mr S made a complaint about this but HSBC maintained their stance. Remaining unhappy 
he referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, she felt 
HSBC hadnt done anything wrong.  As a resolution couldnt be reached, it has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing 
for Mr S, but Ive explained my reasoning below.
In advertising the switching bonus HSBC were clear it was for new customers only and 
within the documentation Mr S wouldve seen at the point of application, it also said:
To be eligible, you cant have had an HSBC current account or opened a First Direct 
current account since 1 January 2019.
HSBC have explained that Mr S held a current account with them previously which closed in 
November 2021. Ive also seen evidence that supports this. Mr S hasnt disputed this but has 
explained that he couldnt remember when the bank account was opened and closed as he 
couldnt access online statements since the account closure. He explained he had called the 
bank to enquire about his account history, but they werent able to locate it.
Mr S said he decided to switch from his previous provider because of the bonus and had 
HSBC confirmed his previous account when he enquired, he wouldnt have opted to switch 
the account.
I understand Mr S may have been unclear on dates he previously held an account with 
HSBC and that he had tried to obtain some information about it. However, he may have 
been able to establish the date of closure based on the current account he held elsewhere 
as it appears he had switched his HSBC account to another provider in November 2021. 
Irrespective of this, Mr S decided to proceed with the switch in the knowledge he had held an 
account previously. The information HSBC provided about the eligibility criteria was clear 
and there for Mr S to see when he made his application. And as Mr S had held an account 
with them since 1 January 2019 I cant say theyve been unfair here, as in line with the terms 
and conditions for the switching bonus, Mr S wasnt eligible. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman