DRN-3168197
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the amount of time he was on hold when attempting to contact The  
Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) via telephone.
What happened
Mr H received a notification from The Co-op that a change would be implemented soon 
whereby Mr H would need to verify online transactions using a passcode sent to his mobile 
telephone. Mr H didnt have a mobile telephone and was concerned about his continuing 
ability to make online transactions on his account.
The notification that Mr H received from The Co-op included a telephone number to call if 
there were any potential issues. Mr H called this number and was advised by automated 
message that as the lines were busy the hold times may be in excess of thirty minutes at 
that time. Mr H decided to hold on the call on that basis, but gave up when his call still hadnt 
been answered after approximately an hour and a quarter. Mr H wasnt happy that hed been 
on hold for such a long period of time, so he raised a complaint.
The Co-op looked at Mr Hs complaint. They acknowledged that Mr H had been waiting on 
hold for a long time, but they didnt feel that this merited a payment of compensation to Mr H 
as Mr H was wanting. So, they didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with The Co-ops response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Mr Hs being 
on hold for the length of time he had merited any form of compensation in this instance, and 
so they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it might have been concerning for Mr H, as a person who doesnt own 
a mobile telephone, to have received the notification that he did from The Co-op which 
explained that in order to be able to continue to use the full functionally of his account that he 
would in essence need a mobile telephone. And I can similarly appreciate how Mr H might 
want to resolve this issue as soon as possible.
It's notable that Mr H sent a secure message to The Co-op questioning this matter on the 
morning of 29 July 2021, and that when no response to that message was received from 
The Co-op by Mr H by the afternoon of that same day that Mr H chose to telephone The   
Co-op using the number provided.
Its also notable that having telephoned The Co-op, Mr H was informed by an automated 
message at the start of the call that as they line was busy at that time, he might be on hold 
for longer than thirty minutes.
Given that it was explained to Mr H that he could be holding for such a significant period if he 
chose to continue with the call at that time, I find it difficult to conclude that The Co-op should 
be held accountable here for the length of time that Mr H was ultimately on hold here, and I 
dont feel that any form of compensation to Mr H is merited in this instance as a result. 
I say this because Mr H was told that the lines were busy and that hold times were 
potentially lengthy, and I feel that having been given this information, by choosing to 
continue to hold at that time, Mr H was accepting that he might be on hold for a significant 
time before his call was answered.
I also dont feel that continuing to hold on that call was the only reasonable option available 
to Mr H at that time. This is because Mr H has already sent a secure message to The Co-op 
which was awaiting a response, and also because Mr H could have chosen not to proceed 
with the call at that time but to have called back another time when lines were less busy. 
Finally, its also notable that the change that The Co-op were looking to implement, whereby 
Mr H would have needed to have access to a mobile telephone, wasnt happening 
immediately. And so while I appreciate how Mr H might have been concerned, I dont feel 
that there was any pressing requirement on Mr H to have resolved the matter necessarily at 
the time that he elected to remain holding on the call.
Ultimately, while I can appreciate that Mr H wanted to speak with The Co-op when he made 
the telephone call in question, I feel that he was given clear notification at the start of the call 
that hold times might be significant. And I dont feel that it would be fair or reasonable to 
instruct The Co-op to then pay compensation to Mr H for him then incurring such long hold 
times, given that it was explained to him that he might experience them.
I realise that this wont be the outcome Mr H was wanting here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing The Co-op to take any further action at this time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman