DRN-3474673
The complaint
Miss N complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money she lost in a scam. 
What happened
Miss N says that she received a call and heard a pre-recorded message saying it was 
HMRC and asking her to press a key to get through to someone, which Miss N did. At the 
time of the call Miss N was preoccupied, for reasons Ill discuss later. The caller Miss N 
spoke to told her that her identity had been stolen and someone had used her national 
insurance number to open eighteen different bank accounts. So Miss N needed to move all 
her money to safety and would be issued with a new national insurance number the 
following day. She was told her money needed to be moved to a cryptocurrency account so 
that her funds could be monitored, and the caller talked Miss N through how to do this. He 
also explained that a fraud investigation would take place. 
Miss N transferred nearly all of her savings into her Monzo account and also funds from 
another current account with a different bank.  Miss N then made the following payments 
from her Monzo account to the new cryptocurrency account:
Date Time Payment method Amount
06/08/21 14.24 Apple Pay £223.25
06/08/21 14.35 Apple Pay £967.88
06/08/21 14.39 Card payment £2,233.29
06/08/21 14.46 Card payment £3,233.29
Total £5,657.71
When the payments were made Miss N could see the funds in the cryptocurrency account. 
Miss N was told not to tell anyone as a family member could be involved. 
Miss N attempted to make a further payment but Monzo blocked her account and asked her 
questions about it. Miss N also talked to her sister who told her shed fallen victim to a scam. 
Miss N is unhappy that Monzo hasnt refunded her. She was also unhappy that after the 
scam Monzo arranged for a welfare call to take place, but she now understands why this 
happened.
Monzo say that Miss N didnt do enough to make sure that the caller was genuine and has 
not provided a refund. Monzo also said that in the circumstances it was right to arrange a 
welfare call. But Monzo agreed to pay compensation to Miss N for other service failings. It 
paid £125 in total for delays in escalating her complaint and issuing a final response letter. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that Monzo refund the third 
and fourth payments. She said the first two payments werent so unusual that Monzo should 
have intervened, but the position changed when Miss N made the third payment. It was the 
third payment in around 15 minutes, was in a different currency, was for a higher amount 
and it was made to a cryptocurrency wallet. The investigator said Monzo should have 
contacted Miss N about this payment and that had it done so the scam would have been 
uncovered. Miss N was unlikely to have been able to give a plausible explanation for the 
payments, did not understand how cryptocurrency worked and was in a distressed state. 
Miss N responded and said she thought the second payment should also be refunded as it 
was for a higher amount and shed never paid a cryptocurrency company before. Monzo 
also didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary it said:
- If Monzo isnt liable under the PSRs and the scam was an obvious one it doesnt see 
how its root cause can be Monzos transaction monitoring. 
- Saying a transaction should be flagged solely based on its value shows a lack of 
understanding of transaction monitoring and its complexities. And its easy to identify 
scam payments with the benefit of hindsight. 
- The investigator concluded Monzo should have provided warnings before processing 
the payments but theres no regulatory requirement in place in respect of card 
payments and the card transactions were approved using strong customer 
identification.
As neither party has accepted the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.Did Monzo act fairly and reasonably when the payments were made?
Whatever the method of payment, Monzo should have been on the lookout for unusual and 
out of character transactions. So Ive considered Miss Ns statements for the eight month 
period before the scam. Having done so, Im not satisfied that the first two payments should 
have caused Monzo any concern and so I dont think it needed to ask her any questions 
about them. Both payments were for relatively low amounts. Theres a balance to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption 
to legitimate transactions. If banks were to stop payments like the second one Miss N made, 
I think that too many legitimate payments would be stopped.
Im persuaded that the situation changed when Miss N made the third payment though. By 
this time she had paid nearly £3,500 to the same payee. This was very unusual in itself 
given Miss Ns previous account activity. But there were other factors that should have been 
red flags to Monzo, such as:
- The payments were made in a different currency
- The payments were made to a cryptocurrency wallet
- There was a pattern of payments in a short timeframe 
- The payments started small and increased in size
These are common features of a scam and should reasonably have resulted in Monzo 
asking Miss N proportionate questions about the reason for the payments. 
Monzo has referred to regulatory requirements in respect of card payments. I have set out 
above that taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, irrespective of 
the payment method, Monzo should take additional steps before processing some 
payments. I must also reach a decision that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
a complaint.  
Ive also considered Monzos comment that flagging a payment based solely on its value 
shows a lack of understanding of the complexities of transaction monitoring. Ive discussed 
above that I think the third payment should have been flagged for a number of reasons, not 
just its value. I accept that Monzos fraud detection system didnt identify the transactions 
(until the fifth) as having high risk characteristics. But I need to consider whether Monzo 
acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances, whether or not its fraud detection 
systems identified the payments. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions I believe ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been asked by Monzo would have made a difference in this case. 
Having done so, its my belief that had Monzo asked proportionate questions and given Miss 
N scam warnings she wouldnt have made the payments. I appreciate that Miss N was told 
by the scammer not to tell anyone what was happening. So any cover story she gave Monzo 
involving friends and family or buying an item wouldnt be plausible as such payments arent 
made using cryptocurrency. And if Miss N had used a cover story involving investing in 
cryptocurrency any questions about it would have revealed she had no understanding of 
how it worked or what she needed to do to protect herself. Of course, if Miss N told Monzo 
the truth the scam would have been immediately apparent. 
Miss N explained to Monzo and this service that she cried a lot when she was on the phone 
to the scammer. Her messages to Monzo after she reported the scam showed she was 
extremely distressed, to the extent that Monzo organised a welfare call. In the 
circumstances, I consider that if Monzo had discussed the third payment with Miss N it 
should have picked up on her demeanour and recognised that something was wrong.   
Should Miss N bear some responsibility for her loss?Ive also considered whether Miss N should bear some responsibility for her loss. Im not 
persuaded that the story given to Miss N by the scammer was particularly plausible in terms 
of HMRC asking her to move money to a cryptocurrency account. But I need to take into 
account the overall circumstances of the complaint and reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome.  Miss N has explained that she was vulnerable for a number of reasons on the day 
of the scam. She was pregnant and on medication to help with her mental health. In addition 
to this, Miss Ns sisters best friend had been given days to live earlier that week. Miss N had 
spent time at the hospital and on the day of the scam was on her own for the first time that 
week. As a result of the combination of these factors Miss N has explained that her judgment 
was impaired. 
As I said above, Miss N has explained that she was in tears when she spoke to the scammer 
and its clear from her communications with Monzo after the scam that she was very 
distressed. Given the evidence I have seen I think that in this case it would be fair for Monzo 
to refund Miss Ns losses in full. 
Recovery
I dont believe Monzo could have done anything to recover Miss Ns funds. I say this 
because Miss N made card payments to a legitimate cryptocurrency provider that gave the 
service it was meant to. In these circumstances, a chargeback claim wouldnt have been 
successful. 
Interest
The funds sent to the scammer were transferred into Miss Ns Monzo account from a 
savings account with a different bank. So interest should be added to the refund for the third 
and fourth payments at the interest rate that applied to that savings account at the time of 
transfer. 
Customer service
Ive considered the service Monzo provided to Miss N. I accept there were some delays in 
dealing with Miss Ns complaint but Monzo has already paid reasonable compensation in 
respect of this. And I believe Monzo acted responsibly and reasonably in arranging a welfare 
call during its investigation of Miss Ns complaint given the nature of the messages she sent 
to Monzo in its chat. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out, my final decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd should:
- Refund the third and fourth payments Miss N made (£4,466.58)
- Pay interest on these two payments from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement at the rate set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman