DRN-2545360
The complaint
Miss P complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled her claim on a 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss P had a sports utility vehicle that had first been registered in 2005. For the year from 
August 2019, she had it insured on a policy under which Advantage was responsible for 
dealing with claims. Where I refer to Advantage, I include claims-handlers and others insofar 
as I hold Advantage responsible for their actions.
The policy provided that if the vehicle were damaged in an accident, it would cover the 
vehicle up to its market value (less policy excess) and replacement of child seats.
Unfortunately, in June 2020, Miss Ps vehicle was in an accident with three children in it (two 
in child seats). The vehicle had a recoded mileage of about 240,000. Advantage said it was 
a total loss. Advantage offered a pre-accident valuation of £2,940.00. 
Miss P complained to Advantage that it was worth more. Advantage wrote a final response 
letter dated 28 August 2020. Unhappy with that, Miss P brought her complaint to us straight 
away. She says Advantage should offer about £8,000.00.
Our investigator initially recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt 
think £2,940.00 was unreasonable. But he thought that  for the car seats  Advantages 
payment of £300.00 hadnt been fair. He recommended that Advantage should pay Miss P:
1. the outstanding balance based upon the value shown in the receipts, which is 
£405.60 plus 8% simple interest from the time of the original payment of £300.00, up 
until the claim is settled; and
2. a further £50.00 for trouble and upset.
Advantage disagreed with the investigators initial opinion in part. It said it had mistakenly 
sent us an old policy booklet dated 07/14 rather than the correct one dated 05/18. 
The investigator changed his opinion. He didnt recommend that the complaint should be 
upheld. He said there was a limit of £300.00 per incident for car seats, so Advantage had 
acted in line with the policy documentation.
Miss P disagreed with the investigators changed opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. She says, in summary, that:
The time taken and the lack of information from Advantage is unacceptable. It never 
even asked if she wished to claim for any property damaged in the accident.
Advantage made a mistake in the documents it sent us. This makes her think they 
have made other mistakes. 
Her exact car is not available so she has found the next best thing, which actually 
cost more to run which is why people keep hold of the model she had, meaning they 
are not readily available.
She has provided evidence showing similar cars for sale for more.
A car like hers is not available for the price offered. Her husband has spent weeks 
now looking on line including car auctions.
With the money offered, she is unable to get a suitable replacement car to transport 
her 3 children.
She is without the money to buy one.
The policy states the market value is the cost of replacing her car. 
It says the insurer MAY use Glass's guide but this contradicts the above.
The wording is extremely misleading to a customer.
Her car has not been replaced and 6 months later shes without a car. 
She is out of pocket for her children's car seats. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the policy terms applicable to Miss Ps policy were those dated 05/18. That 
includes a limit for car seats of £300.00. I dont condone Advantage sending us an older 
version of the policy terms. But I havent seen enough evidence to say that Advantage made 
any other mistakes.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Advantage communicated well enough to allow Miss 
P to make her claim, including for belongings.
Advantage paid £300.00 for the car seats in line with the policy terms. So I dont find that it 
treated Miss P unfairly in that regard.
The policy terms included the following definition:
Market Value
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not 
necessarily be the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your 
Insurer may use publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and 
will make any necessary allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and 
the circumstances in which you bought it.
I dont share Miss Ps view that this wording is misleading. In any event Ive looked at 
whether Advantage applied its policy terms fairly and reasonably. We expect insurance companies to use trade guides such as Glasss. Its important to 
recognise that these trade guides dont just contain trade prices, but also retail prices, 
which is what we expect insurance companies to use. 
Im satisfied that the trade guides take into account supply and demand and are the best 
evidence of the value of a vehicle. So  to be clear  I accept that the trade guides contain 
retail prices that are available to consumers seeking to replace a vehicle like-for- like.
I place more weight on the trade guides than on advertisements as they contain asking 
prices which are often negotiated down to a selling price.
Ive noted the make, model, age, mileage and pre-accident condition of Miss Ps vehicle. I 
accept that such vehicles are becoming hard to find. But that is reflected in the trade guides.
For a vehicle like hers in June 2020, the trade guides contain the following figures:
Glasss £2,940.00
CAP £2,497.00
Advantage initially offered a valuation of £2,500.00. And I dont find that unreasonable. 
Advantage later increased its valuation to the higher figure. So Im satisfied that was fair and 
reasonable. I dont find it fair to direct Advantage to further increase its valuation.
 By 19 August 2020, Advantage had sent an email including the following:
£2940.00 was the highest of the guide values which leaves me no alternative 
other than to refer this matter as a valuation dispute to our Complaints Department 
who should be in contact with you within the next five working days. In the meantime 
we have to arrange an interim payment but I must stress that by banking this does 
not constitute you accepting the current value or that you consider the matter closed.
So Im satisfied that Advantage made its valuation and interim payment within about two 
months of the accident, which I find a reasonable time in the circumstances. And Miss P 
couldve banked the payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman