DRN-4321443
The complaint
Mr W complains that LeasePlan UK Limited have applied unfair charges at the end of his 
hire agreement.
What happened
Mr W entered into a hire agreement with LeasePlan in April 2019. The agreement had a 
minimum term of 36 months and following an advance rental payment required monthly 
repayments of around £479. 
Mr W returned the car and an inspection was carried out in March 2023. He says he was 
unfairly charged for damage that was within the wear and tear guidelines. He also said the 
charges being applied didnt make sense and LeasePlans response to his queries were 
curt, unclear and unconvincing.
LeasePlan said that the charges had been applied in line with the hire agreement terms. It 
said the difference in repair costs for the two scratches was due to the repair to the bumper 
being to touch in the scratch and then repolish whereas the right hand rear quarter panel 
needed to be repainted.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She was satisfied that the damage fell outside 
of the wear and tear guidelines and that the agreement set out that damage outside wear 
and tear would be charged for. She noted Mr Ws comment about mechanical polishing but 
said he hadnt provided evidence from an approved repairer that this would be suitable.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he wanted the car returned so he 
could prove it could be repaired by mechanical polishing and noted that the collecting agent 
didnt say that the damage fell outside of wear and tear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W hired a car through a hire agreement with LeasePlan. The terms of the agreement 
include that the hirer was responsible for taking reasonable care of the car and making good 
any damage. The terms include the return conditions setting out that on return a vehicle 
collection report will be completed and then a detailed inspection report carried out before 
the car is sold and charges will be applied for any damage that is in excess of fair wear and 
tear. 
Mr Ws car was inspected on 23 March 2023. The inspection found scratches on the front 
bumper and right hand rear quarter panel. Photographs have been provided and the 
scratches are clearly visible. 
Mr W hasnt disputed the damage but says it falls within the fair wear and tear guidelines. 
LeasePlan has explained that it uses the wear and tear guidelines provided by the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). In regard to scratches the guidelines say 
that scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal isnt showing are acceptable 
as long as they can be polished out. Mr W says that the scratches can be polished out.
While I note Mr Ws comments, LeasePlan has explained that on the bumper scratch the 
image shows two colours which is evidence the damage has gone through the top coat. I 
have looked at the photograph and I find on balance I agree with LeasePlan in regard to this 
damage. Likewise, having looked at the scratch to the right had rear quarter panel this also 
appears to have gone through the paintwork to expose the base coat. Given this, on 
balance, I do not find I can say that Leaseplan is wrong to apply charges for the scratches as 
they appear to fall outside of the wear and tear guidelines. LeasePlan has also explained the 
work that is needed and why the cost for the repairs differs.
Mr W has said he should be allowed to have the car returned so he can prove that the 
damage can be repaired through mechanical polishing. However, Mr W had the opportunity 
to carry out any repairs before returning the car. Now the car has been returned I do not find 
it unreasonable that he is required to pay for the repairs identified.
I understand that this isnt the answer Mr W wants but, in this case, I do not find I can say 
the charges have been applied unfairly therefore I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman