DRN-3450399
The complaint
Miss S says My Finance Club Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about five payday loans My Finance Club provided to Miss S between June 
2021 and July 2021. Miss Ss lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount Repayments Highest 
Repayment 
1 25/06/2021 13/07/2021 £200 1 £248
2 16/07/2021 16/07/2021 £250 1 £306
3 22/07/2021 23/07/2021 £100 1 £130.40
4 23/07/2021 31/07/2021 £200 1 £244.80
5 31/07/2021 12/10/2021 £180 1 £220.32
Miss S struggled to repay loan five and failed to meet repayments in agreed repayment 
plans until she repaid the loan in full. 
Our Adjudicator upheld Miss Ss complaint in part and thought loan five shouldnt have been 
given. My Finance Club didnt reply to the Adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
My Finance Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that My Finance Club should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that My Finance Club was required to 
establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
My Finance Club asked Miss S for information about her income and outgoings and it carried 
out credit checks for each loan. Miss S said her monthly income was between £1,300 and 
£1,350. She said her monthly outgoings ranged between £530 and £700. From what I can 
see, the credit checks that My Finance Club carried out didnt show anything that should 
have prompted further checks. 
I think these affordability checks were proportionate and sufficient for loans one to three. 
Miss S looked to have sufficient disposable income to repay her loans sustainably. For loan 
four, the fourth loan in quick succession in a month, I think My Finance Club should also 
have asked Miss S about her other borrowing, both short-term and long term. But, from what 
I can see, if it had asked further questions it wouldnt have found anything concerning about 
Miss Ss borrowing from other lenders. So I cant say that loans one to four shouldnt have 
been provided. 
But I also think My Finance Clubs checks for loan five didnt go far enough. I think by loan 
five, My Finance Club should have asked Miss S for details of her finances to verify what she 
had told it and to check that the loans were sustainable for her. It could for example have 
asked to see her bank statements. But I havent been provided with these, so I cant say 
what better checks would have found. 
But Miss S was borrowing and repaying loans in quick succession. Loans one to four were 
all repaid early and then she asked for a further loan the same day or a few days later. So by 
the time Miss S asked for a fifth loan in five weeks, I think My Finance Club should have 
been alerted that Miss S was showing signs of financial difficulties and that she was 
struggling to repay her loans without having to borrow again. 
So I think by loan five, My Finance Club should have realised that there was a significant risk 
that Miss S would be unable to meet her repayment sustainably. And so I think it shouldnt 
have provided loan five. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress My Finance Club should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss S from loan five, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss S may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss S would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce My Finance Clubs liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I require My Finance Club Limited to do the following:
refund all interest and charges Miss S paid on loan five;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan five from Miss Ss credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires My Finance Club to take off tax from this interest. My 
Finance Club must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Miss Ss 
complaint. I require My Finance Club Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman