DRN-3036968
The complaint
Miss N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not do enough to help her recover the money 
she paid to a scam investment company. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail. But I will provide an overview of events below.
Between March 2018 to July 2018, Miss N was a customer of Wise Trader (a brand of F1 
Markets Ltd). They rebranded as Stratton Markets around July 2018. Miss N says she was 
unhappy with Wise Trader because they lost some of her money and illegally used her credit 
card. She says F1 Markets Ltd compensated her for this, fired the account manager and 
also promised to recover her losses. Miss N felt confident to continue a relationship with the 
new brand.
Miss Ns Wise Trader account was closed (with a credit balance) and a new account was 
opened with Stratton Markets in July 2018. The credit balance was transferred over to her 
new account. 
Between August 2018 to December 2018 Miss N deposited just over £107,000 into her 
Stratton Markets trading account using her HSBC current and credit card accounts. 
Miss N says Stratton Markets misrepresented themselves which led to her not having an 
appropriate account for her level of experience. She also says they manipulated the trading 
software she used. 
 
During her time with Stratton Markets, Miss N had different account managers and she says 
they put pressure on her to invest more funds and in risky products. She says they didnt act 
in her best interests. Miss N complained to Stratton Markets in December 2018 and she was 
offered a £15,000 settlement which she declined as she says it was a small fraction of the 
losses she suffered. 
In January 2019, Miss N approached Stratton Markets regulator  the Cyprus Securities and 
Exchange Commission (CySEC) to review her complaint. Miss N withdrew her complaint 
with CySEC after she appointed a law firm to assist her. The law firm turned out to be a 
scam and CySEC refused to re-open her complaint. 
Miss N contacted HSBC in August 2019 to assist her with chargeback claims. HSBC 
processed chargeback claims for Miss N and say it took them as far as it could and 
managed to recover £7,000. Miss N says HSBC mishandled her chargeback claims and 
didnt robustly pursue them in accordance with her instructions and delayed things. HSBC 
acknowledge Miss N received poor customer service and paid her a total of £200 
compensation by way of an apology. 
One of our investigators didnt uphold Miss Ns complaint. She didnt think HSBC acted 
unreasonably by not taking her chargeback claims further and she also didnt think an 
intervention from HSBC would have made a difference to the outcome. Miss N disagreed 
and provided further evidence to explain why. She asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint, so it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering. But when simply executing authorised 
payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give 
investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has confirmed that a fraud 
warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice.  
 
So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular trader was a fraudster. 
 
were the disputed payments fraudulent? 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary options, CFD or forex scam 
is in fact a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in 
disappointing returns or losses.  
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).  
In simpler terms, some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could 
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this does 
not always amount to fraud. 
When considering this for Miss Ns case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive 
searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place 
to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being 
fraudulent.   
Upon checking both of these, its my understanding that Stratton Markets had no adverse 
information reported about them at the time Miss N authorised her payments. What I have 
noted is that they were regulated by CySEC at the time of Miss Ns payments with 
passporting rights through the FCA - which meant they could offer services to UK customers.  
In May 2020, the FCA issued a supervisory notice to Stratton Markets where it noted 
concerns about their practices and the complaints received by UK customers. In June 2020, 
Stratton Markets FCA registration was cancelled and they could no longer provide 
investment services to UK customers. But its important to note that these notices were 
published by the FCA after Miss N made all of her payments. I must therefore take into account that theres strong evidence here  particularly because 
there are no regulator warnings that were published at the material time that Stratton 
Markets hadnt been identified as a fraudulent company when these payments were made.  
I must follow the evidence and, essentially, I have no credible evidence to persuade me with 
any degree of certainty that Stratton Markets was operating a scam at the time it offered 
services to Miss N. The evidence I do have shows that Stratton Markets were indeed 
regulated at the time it offered services to Miss N. So, taking everything into consideration, 
Im not persuaded that Stratton Markets was in fact a fraudulent company.  
Having concluded that this was not a fraudulent company and was potentially a bad bargain, 
misleading/poor investment advice, I need to consider the following: 
1. Did HSBC deal with Miss Ns chargeback claims fairly? 
2. If so, were any of the disputed transactions still so unusual or uncharacteristic 
for Miss N and/or her account that HSBC fraud alerts ought reasonably to have 
triggered some sort of intervention? 
3. If triggered, would HSBCs intervention have made a difference and prevented or 
reduced the loss? 
4. And if so, was Miss N partly to blame for what happened such that it would be fair 
and reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately? 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such 
cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decisions or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Visa expanded its rules to cover situations whereby binary options/investment traders 
prevented cardholders from withdrawing their available balances from 14 October 2017. 
Effective 14 October 2017, issuers may use Reason Code 53 to address cases whereby a 
binary options (or forex) merchant has imposed obstacles to prevent cardholders from 
withdrawing funds. This chargeback right is limited to the amount available in the binary 
option account at the time funds are requested. Issuers cannot charge back more than the 
original transaction amount, so capital gains from binary options trades cannot be paid out via 
the chargeback process. 
However, Reason Code 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) required HSBC to present dated 
evidence that Miss N had an available balance (in the form of a screenshot or confirmation 
from the merchant) and that she tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, her available 
balances on the same day. 
Its clear that by March 2019 (prior to Miss N contacting HSBC) she had a small balance of 
£325.79 which was returned to her by Stratton Markets. So by the time she contacted HSBC 
in August 2019, its likely she would have had no available balances left in her account, not 
least because she was blocked from accessing her trading account. Whilst I appreciate Miss 
N clearly spent a lot of time and effort in preparing her chargeback claim submissions, I dont 
find that HSBC had any valid grounds to attempt to recover her losses under the Visa 
chargeback scheme rules. Ive noted the substantial information provided by Miss N to demonstrate how she felt 
Stratton Markets misrepresented themselves but this would have had no bearing on the 
outcome of her chargeback claims. Visa have been clear that without the card issuer 
(HSBC) presenting the required evidence of the particular reason code - in this case reason 
13.5  any claim would be deemed invalid at its arbitration stage, regardless of the 
evidence, (or lack of evidence) presented by the acquirer (Stratton Markets bank). And Visa 
would not have taken verbal misrepresentations into account when making this decision.  
I acknowledge that four chargeback claims totalling £7,000 appear to have succeeded as 
this money was returned to Miss N following HSBCs chargeback attempts. But this success 
was the result of Stratton Markets not defending these claims within the required time limit. It 
was not the result of Visa making a determination.
I find that HSBC was trying to assist Miss N by pursuing chargeback claims on her behalf 
when it stood no reasonable prospect of success at arbitration and its clear Stratton Markets 
intended to defend the claims. In my judgment, it was not unreasonable of HSBC not to take 
Miss Ns chargeback claims any further. 
I do agree that HSBC provided poor customer service during the chargeback process and 
given Miss Ns distress at the situation she found herself in, I think HSBC ought to have 
handled things better. I agree that £200 (in total) was a fair and reasonable way to 
compensate Miss N for its failings. But I do find that HSBC was trying to help Miss N recover 
her losses by attempting chargebacks for her. 
Ive not considered whether Miss N has a valid claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect of her credit card transactions. This is because she has made no 
such claim to HSBC and it would be obliged the opportunity to first consider a claim and any 
subsequent complaint before this service can get involved. 
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
HSBC is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Miss N for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. 
This is because they were made by Miss N using the legitimate security credentials provided 
to her by HSBC. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Miss N 
feels she was the victim of a scam. So, although she did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her account, Miss 
N is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks and building societies are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper 
entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting 
victimsthat it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types 
of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect a large firm to update its watch-
list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the 
FCA or IOSCO. In my judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand 
lead to the payment being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) 
to the payer.
But in Miss Ns case, in 2018, there were no warnings from the FCA or IOSCO that indicated 
Stratton Markets were scammers. And rather the evidence does suggest they were 
registered with the FCA. If HSBC had intervened and carried out further checks to ensure 
Miss N was not the victim of a scam, I would have expected it to direct Miss N to check the 
firm was registered with the FCA, inform her of any regulator warnings that it was aware of 
and inform her to carry out her own due diligence checks. 
From Miss Ns own testimony by July 2018, she trusted F1 Markets Ltd as they had put right 
some of the failings of Wise Trader, so she felt comfortable to continue a relationship with 
them as Stratton Markets. So whilst I do think some of the transactions to Stratton Markets 
were unusual and ought to have prompted further checks from HSBC (particularly in October 
2018). I dont think any intervention from HSBC would have made a difference to Miss Ns 
decision to invest with Stratton Markets. 
In other words, I am satisfied that a warning from HSBC in October 2018 probably would 
have made no difference to Miss N. Any failings by HSBC were not the dominant, effective 
cause of her losses; they were just part of the background history or occasion that led up to 
them. 
In light of my conclusions above on causation, it is unnecessary for me to go on to consider 
whether Miss N was herself partly to blame for what happened (contributory negligence). 
Indeed, I have already concluded that she was responsible for her own investment 
decisions, and that such choices were the proximate cause of her losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and despite my natural sympathies for Miss N, I am not 
persuaded that HSBC UK Bank Plc acted unfairly or unreasonably with regard to Miss Ns 
disputed transactions to Stratton Markets, so I am unable to uphold this complaint or make 
any award against the bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman