DRN-2954783
The complaint
Miss C complains that she has been unable to access her National Savings and Investments 
account online.
What happened
Miss C says she was told by National Savings and Investments (NS&I) that it was moving all 
services online and that she should update her details. She says she has been unable to do 
so due to problems receiving a security code and has been frozen out of her account. Miss 
C says NS&I shouldnt have implemented such changes until its systems could deal with 
them and would like to know when the problem will be fixed as well as access to her money.
NS&I says it is aware of account access problems due to a mobile phone issue that it 
doesnt have control over. It says it is trying to sort the issue out but says Miss C can 
transact on her account via telephone or letter. And she was able to sell some of her bonds 
and receive the money.
Miss C brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Miss C could access her account and carry out transactions using other methods.
Miss C doesnt accept that view and in summary says we should be able to hold an 
organisation to account and questions how long NS&I should have to fix this problem. She 
also questions why NS&I brought in the changes without a system that could cope with 
them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss C will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how frustrated she is 
with the situation.
I make clear to Miss C that we are not NS&Is regulator. That means its not our role to hold 
an organisation to account as Miss C suggests or direct it, as here, to sort out whatever 
problem there is with the security process. It is also not our role to comment on Miss C s 
question about why NS&I would direct customers to use online account access when there 
appears to be a known issue.
Im satisfied that NS&I has fairly explained there is a potential issue which may be causing 
the access problem. But Im also satisfied NS&I has fairly suggested alternative methods to 
Miss C about carrying out transactions such as by telephone or by letter. I can see that Miss 
C has used such methods and was able to sell her bonds. So, I dont think Miss C has been 
prevented from accessing her money and whilst I accept it may be frustrating for her not to 
be able to access her account online, I cant fairly order NS&I to allow such online access 
when it cant do so.
Overall, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require NS&I to do anything further in the 
circumstances of it. I also think it likely that the issue here is outside of NS&Is control.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman