DRN-2864136
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Aviva Insurance Limited incorrectly dealt 
with a claim that was made against its mini fleet insurance policy. 
Mr M, who is a director of B, brings the complaint on Bs behalf.
 
What happened
The facts of the case are well known to both parties, so I wont detail them again in full here.
In brief, Mr M complains Aviva: 
Caused confusion and delayed in clarifying the vehicle involved
failed to investigate the circumstances of the incident 
failed to question or limit the costs of the third-party claim 
deliberately delayed in complying with a request for evidence
Hes also unhappy about the impact this has had on the renewal premium for Bs policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided a lot of information and has raised a significant number of points about 
how he believes Aviva has handled the claim. 
My role as an ombudsman is to decide how a complaint should be resolved, quickly and 
informally. That means I will focus my investigation and decision on what I consider the crux 
of the issue to be. I dont intend to comment on everything Mr M has said or asked, unless I 
consider it relevant to the decision I need to make. But I can confirm I have thoroughly read 
and considered all the evidence presented by both parties. 
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Aviva delayed in contacting Mr M about the claim that was made against his policy. It 
did however correctly identify the vehicle registration number on the letter that was 
sent to Mr M. It appears confusion was caused as there was another claim that was 
being dealt with around the same time as this one was initially notified. Mr M has said 
Aviva gave different information to his broker, however from the evidence available to 
me I cant see that was the case.  Aviva has recognised it could have acted more 
quickly here and that contributed to the confusion, it offered £75 compensation for 
this, which I think is reasonable. 
Bs policy contains a clause which lets Aviva take over and deal with the claim in the 
way it sees fit.  This is common in most motor vehicle policies. My role isnt to decide 
if Aviva reached the right outcome for the claim, but to check that it acted reasonably 
when it did so. 
Aviva were notified of the circumstances of the incident by the third party. The 
information it was given was enough for it to decide that liability should be accepted 
for the damage caused.  Insurers are experienced in dealing with claims and have a 
duty to settle them quickly and fairly. I dont think it acted unreasonably here. 
Mr M has questioned the damage costs that were submitted by the third party. Based 
on the images he had of the damage caused, he obtained quotes that were 
significantly cheaper. Not all damage caused is initially visible, the third party was 
entitled to have the vehicle repaired properly and the work needed, and costs 
involved were signed off by an engineer. While I appreciate Mr M disputes the value 
placed on those repairs, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in paying the costs 
claimed. It was entitled to rely on the information it was provided with and use its 
experience of dealing with claims to judge if those costs were reasonable or if they 
needed to be questioned further. 
Mr M has said Aviva deliberately delayed in complying with a request for evidence.  
From the evidence available to me, I cant see that was the case. I understand Mr M 
has referred a complaint to the relevant organisation that deals with complaints about 
data protection issues, so I wont comment on this aspect further. 
I realise Mr M is disappointed with the cost of Bs renewal premium. I havent found 
Aviva has acted incorrectly in dealing with this claim, so Ive not had the need to 
assess the impact this has had on the premium quoted. If Mr M, is unhappy with the 
cost of the renewal premium, he would need to raise this issue with Aviva separately. 
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Bs complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman