DRN-2888185
The complaint
Mr Y complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund two payments he made from his bank 
account.
Whats happened?
Mr Y says he found the details of a brewery online that he wanted to do business with and 
visited its business premises. He saw the way the brewery was being run, and that beer was 
being manufactured.
Mr Y exchanged a number of emails with the brewery, agreeing details such as the product 
design and price, and a contract was drawn up. Mr Y then made two payments to the 
brewery by bank transfer  he paid £1,883.52 on 12 July 2019 and £330 on 19 July 2019 
(the payments).
But Mr Y never received the goods he paid for, and when he couldnt get in touch with the 
brewery then saw that it had closed down, he contacted HSBC for help. HSBC said this 
matter is a dispute between a buyer and a seller so it cant assist Mr Y. 
Mr Y referred a complaint to this Service which our investigator considered but didnt uphold. 
She said that this matter is a civil dispute between Mr Y and the brewery, and HSBC is not 
responsible for refunding the payments. Mr Y didnt accept what she said. He feels that the 
brewery set out to defraud him, taking his money when it knew it wouldnt fulfil his order.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having looked at everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require HSBC to refund 
the payments. I appreciate that this isnt the outcome Mr Y was hoping for, but Ill explain my 
reasoning below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
When HSBC made the payments, it was complying with Mr Ys instructions. At the time, 
Mr Y wanted to pay the brewery and there was no mistake made as the money was sent to 
the correct account details. As I dont think HSBC acted incorrectly by making the payments, 
Ive gone on to consider whether HSBC should have refunded Mr Y for any other reason, but 
I dont think it should have.
HSBC has signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), and it was in force at the time the payments were 
made. Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a 
customer who has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. But the 
code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all APPs. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
I understand why Mr Y feels he has been scammed, but from what Ive seen, I dont think 
I can fairly say that the situation Mr Y finds himself in is a scam, although I accept and 
acknowledge that Mr Y hasnt received the goods he paid the brewery for. I think the 
payments form part of a civil dispute between Mr Y and the seller. I say this because:
the receiving bank has confirmed that the beneficiary account is a legitimate 
business account which had been open for some years before the payments were 
made. 
I can see that the brewery has been registered as an active company on Companies 
House for several years.
Mr Y visited the brewerys business premises and saw its operation being run.
the brewery exchanged several emails with Mr Y, agreeing the sale details and a 
contract was drawn up.
The available evidence shows that Mr Y paid a legitimate business for an order which 
unfortunately wasnt fulfilled. As such, I dont think HSBC is responsible for reimbursing Mr Y 
because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
Mr Y has my sympathies. Hes found himself in an unenviable situation. But overall, Im not 
satisfied there has been a bank error in this case. I cant see any fair and reasonable 
grounds on which I could say that HSBC should bear the responsibility of Mr Ys loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman