DRN-1780202
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) turned down their 
home insurance claim following a burglary. Mr and Mrs S are represented in this complaint 
by their son, but to avoid confusion Ill refer to all actions as those of Mr S. 
What happened
Mr S and his family travelled abroad for a holiday, to visit family, on 31 October 2019. They 
intended to remain on holiday for around 25 days. However, Mr S, who unfortunately suffers 
from cancer and depression, had a panic attack while away. He saw a doctor, who 
recommended that he avoid stress and rest at home. So Mr S and his family remained 
where they were, to allow Mr S to rest. 
The police contacted Mr S on 13 January 2020 and told him that his home had been 
burgled. The police secured Mr Ss home. Mr S and his family returned to their home on 22nd 
January 2020. Mr S submitted a claim to Aviva. Thankfully, the burglar had been caught and 
so the police were able to return some of Mr Ss possessions to him. But damage had been 
caused to both the front and back doors of the property. Aviva turned down the claim and so 
Mr S complained. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr S needs to tell it if he is leaving his home 
unoccupied for more than the agreed number of days. It said the policy states Mr S will not 
be covered for loss or damage if his home is unoccupied for more than the period of time 
shown on his schedule, which is 40 days. 
Aviva said it could have increased the unoccupancy period to not more than 60 days in the 
event of an emergency. But it said the medical information provided by Mr S did not say that 
Mr S was hospitalised or unable to fly. Aviva said as the burglary occurred after the property 
was unoccupied for 74 days, which is longer than the unoccupancy period in the policy, it 
was right to decline the claim. 
Aviva also dealt with the service complaint made by Mr S, in relation to how he was spoken 
to by a member of staff during his initial call to Aviva. Aviva said it listened to the phone call 
and said Mr S became upset when he was told his claim would not be paid. It said it doesnt 
think it was the attitude of the member of staff that upset him, but rather that the member of 
staff was telling Mr S something he did not want to hear. 
Mr S complained to this service. He said he couldnt return home after he suffered a panic 
attack and his doctor told him to rest. He said Aviva told him it would look at whether these 
were exceptional circumstances and that if he was unable to fly home, it might reconsider its 
decision. Mr S also said he wasnt aware that there was a limit to the amount of time his 
home could be unoccupied before he was no longer covered in the event of a burglary. Mr S 
also complained that the first member of staff he spoke to about the burglary treated him 
very poorly and disrespected him. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said under the terms of Mr Ss policy, he 
should not leave his home unoccupied for more than 40 consecutive days. And as his 
home was left unoccupied for 82 days between October 2019 and January 2020, Aviva 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of his policy when it turned down the claim. Our 
investigator said Aviva looked at medical information to see if it could have increased the 
unoccupancy period to the maximum of 60 days. She said the property was burgled after 
being unoccupied for 74 days, and so this exceeded the period of 60 days that Aviva might 
have been able to extend cover to. 
Mr S responded and said he could not have known how and when he was going to fall ill 
abroad and face this unprecedented situation with his health. He said he was advised to rest 
by his doctor and wisely took this advice, like anyone concerned about their health would. 
As Mr S did not agree with our investigators assessment, this has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
But before I do, I want to explain that unoccupied properties are more vulnerable to incidents 
such as burglaries and so an insurer cant be expected to provide cover indefinitely when a 
property is unoccupied, if the contract entered into limits the number of consecutive days the 
property can be empty. If a consumer wants to be able to leave their property unoccupied for 
a greater or unlimited amount of time, then they would need to contact their insurer and 
make special arrangements or may need to take out a different type of policy. 
Having seen the policy documents from 2016, when Mr S took out the policy, and 2019, 
when the policy was renewed, Im satisfied its clear Mr Ss policy doesnt offer cover in 
certain circumstances, including burglaries, if his home is left unoccupied for more than 40 
days. 
I do understand that Mr S says he didnt intend to stay away from home for as long as he did 
and that he was unwell enough that he thought it was best for him to stay where he was, so 
that he could rest. And, as result, he thinks Aviva should have considered his situation as an 
exceptional circumstance. So Ive also considered Mr Ss complaint with that in mind. 
I can see that Aviva will sometimes increase the period of time a property can be left 
unoccupied from 40 to 60 days, if it thinks the circumstances could be considered a medical 
emergency. But it didnt think this was a medical emergency, because Mr S wasnt 
hospitalised or wasnt told he couldnt fly. And Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly when it said 
this. Aviva needs to rely on the medical information its provided with when its assessing 
whether something is a medical emergency. And Im satisfied it was fair to say that if Mr S 
wasnt considered ill enough to be hospitalised or ill enough to be told not to fly, then he 
might well have been ill, but it wasnt a medical emergency. 
But, putting that to one side, from what I can see, even if Aviva had decided Mr Ss situation 
could be considered a medical emergency, it still wouldnt have increased the allowed 
unoccupancy period beyond 60 days. The burglary happened after 74 days, and so for Mr S 
to be covered, Aviva would have needed to be willing to offer cover beyond 60 days. And its 
underwriters confirmed it wouldnt do this for this policy. So, regardless of Mr Ss medical 
condition, the cover wouldnt have been extended to 74 days.Mr S has also said he didnt know there was a limit to the number of days he could leave his 
property unoccupied. And so he didnt know to contact Aviva to discuss his situation with it. 
This might well be the case but, as I said earlier, Im satisfied the policy wording was clear in 
relation to the unoccupancy period. And so as this information was available to Mr S, it 
wouldnt be fair to hold Aviva to account for Mr S not knowing about this specific exclusion. 
So although I sympathise with Mr Ss difficult circumstances and I dont doubt he felt the best 
option was to remain where he was to rest, I could only ask Aviva to deal with his claim 
differently if I thought it had made an error or acted unfairly. And Im satisfied it hasnt. 
Mr S also complained about the phone conversation he had with a member of staff at Aviva 
when he first rang to report the burglary. He said they had an atrocious demeanour, behaved 
badly towards him and disrespected him. Ive listened to the call and I dont agree that this 
was the case. Its clear that Mr S was shocked and upset to hear that he might not have a 
valid claim because of the policy exclusion. And this is understandable given that he needed 
to return to the UK because his home was burgled. But Im satisfied the member of staff was 
not rude or disrespectful towards Mr S. She was simply delivering bad news to Mr S, namely 
that his claim was unlikely to be covered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman