DRN-3437832
The complaint
V complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited settled a claim it made on its mini fleet 
insurance policy.
Reference to Aviva includes its agents
What happened
V holds a mini fleet insurance policy with Aviva. When one of its vehicles was stolen, it made 
a claim to Aviva.
Aviva accepted the claim and offered V £45,000 minus the policy excess to settle the claim. 
It said this represented the market value of Vs vehicle. V didnt accept this. It said the 
amount was too low and that it couldnt replace the vehicle for that amount of money.
Aviva increased its offer to £49,150 minus the policy excess. But V still didnt accept this.
V brought its complaint to us. It provided a number of adverts for similar vehicles and 
explained why it thought its vehicle was worth more than the offer Aviva made. It also 
complained about delays in receiving the interim payment from Aviva while the valuation was 
in dispute.
One of our investigators looked into Vs complaint and thought it should be partly upheld. 
They thought the value Aviva had placed on Vs vehicle was fair and in line with our 
approach. But they thought Aviva needed to pay V additional interest for the delayed 
payment, and compensation of £100 in acknowledgement of the inconvenience caused by 
the delay.
Neither V nor Aviva agreed.
Aviva said it had offered to pay further interest, but this was declined. And it didnt think V 
had experienced enough inconvenience to warrant an offer of compensation.
V agreed with the offer of compensation and additional interest but didnt agree that the 
amount Aviva had offered to settle the claim was fair.
So, the case has come to me to issue an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im partly upholding Vs complaint too.
Vs policy says that the most Aviva will pay on any claim is the market value of the vehicle 
immediately prior to the loss. It defines the market value as The cost of replacing your 
vehicle with one of the same make, model, specification and condition.
Finding the market value of a vehicle isnt an exact science, and its not my role to determine 
the market value of Vs vehicle. My role is to determine whether Avivas offer is fair. And to 
do that we have a set approach detailed on our website which V has been made aware of.
In this case, Im satisfied Aviva followed our approach. It used a number of industry guides 
and made an offer within the range of those guides. Weve also used those same guides to 
run valuations for Vs vehicle, and Avivas offer of £49,150 is within the range of those 
guides.
I understand V thinks our approach is unfair. But Im not persuaded thats the case. The 
guides we, and indeed Aviva have used are constantly updating their data based on current 
trends in the market. So, I still find these the most persuasive evidence when determining 
whether or not Avivas offer to settle Vs claim is a fair reflection of the vehicles market 
value.
I find these more persuasive than adverts as they use nationwide data and take into 
consideration the make, model, specification and condition (including mileage). Adverts on 
the other hand value only the specific vehicle they relate to. And finding a like for like vehicle, 
of the same make, model, specification and condition is extremely unlikely. Of the adverts 
provided, Im not persuaded any indicate that the motor trade guides are inaccurate.
I do think Aviva delayed paying the interim payment on two occasions. I can see its offered 
paid the interest for that delay on one occasion. And that it offered to pay it for the second 
occasion too. I understand the second occasion was declined, but I think Aviva should pay 
this regardless. For clarity, Aviva should pay 8% simple interest on both the initial and 
second delay in the interim payment if its not already done so.
I also agree with our investigator that not receiving and then chasing an interim payment 
would have been inconvenient for V, even if those concerns were voiced by its 
representative on the complaint. So, I think Aviva should pay V £100 compensation in 
acknowledgment of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. To put things right I require Aviva to 
Insurance Limited to:
Pay V 8% interest for the delay to the interim payments if this has not already been 
done. Interest should be calculated from the date the payment should have been 
made, to the day it was actually made.
Pay V £100 compensation for the inconvenience of the delays and having to chase 
payments 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman