DRN-4226436
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) disposed of her TV after 
declining a claim she made under her appliance insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2022 Miss G called to register her tumble dryer warranty with D&G. During the 
call, she was sold an accidental damage and breakdown insurance policy for two TVs.
Shortly after taking out the policy, Miss G contacted D&G to make a claim for accidental 
damage to one of the TVs. The TV was collected by D&Gs repair agent, and Miss G 
submitted a claim form and the requested documents to D&G.
D&G declined Miss Gs claim as they said she hadnt sufficiently demonstrated she had a 
genuine claim. D&G said her TV would be returned to her.
Miss G chased D&Gs repair agent for the return of her TV, but by that point, the TV had 
been disposed of. D&G said the repair agent had tried to contact Miss G to arrange return, 
but as they were unable to make contact, they disposed of the TV.
As Miss G was unhappy her TV had been disposed of, she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint in part. He said that he didnt 
think there was anything to show the TV wasnt in a good condition, but he said D&G hadnt 
acted unfairly by questioning the content and clarity of the information provided in support of 
it, so he said D&G hadnt acted unfairly by declining the claim. 
However, the investigator wasnt satisfied D&G had sufficiently demonstrated attempts to 
contact Miss G to return her TV, so he said it shouldnt have been disposed of. The 
investigator recommended D&G compensate Miss G £150.
D&G didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
D&G says Miss G hasnt provided sufficient evidence to support she is making a genuine 
claim. D&G say that Miss G asked about accidental damage scenarios during the sales call, 
and a claim was made shortly after taking out the policy. They also say Miss G hasnt 
provided sufficient evidence of proof of purchase.
Ive listened to the sales call. I acknowledge that Miss G discussed scenarios of accidental 
damage that might be covered under the policy. However, there was nothing in the call to 
support the TV wasnt in a good condition. During the call Miss G asked about her fridge 
freezer and mentioned the issues it already had, and D&G said it wouldnt be able to cover it 
due to its current condition. If the TV wasnt in a good condition, then I think its likely Miss G 
would also have mentioned this, like she did with the fridge freezer.
I recognise that a claim was made shortly after taking out the policy. And that Miss G asked 
about different examples of types of accidental damage that might be covered during the 
sale. But there isnt anything in the call which persuades me that the TV wasnt in a good 
condition prior to taking out the policy.
However, the policy terms say Miss G needs to provide information to support her claim. And 
that the item needs to be owned by her. Miss G submitted information including a claim form 
and receipts, and Im satisfied D&G were reasonable in questioning the clarity of the 
information. So, I dont think D&G acted unfairly by declining the claim.
After the claim was declined Miss G was told her TV would be returned to her by the repair 
agent. D&G has said that the repair agent tried to call Miss G several times, along with 
sending her a letter. As they were unable to reach Miss G, they disposed of the TV, which 
Miss G discovered when she called on 24 January 2023. Miss G disputes she received any 
contact from D&G or their agents.
Our investigator asked for evidence from D&G (and their agent) to demonstrate the 
attempted contact with Miss G. 
D&G has provided some system notes which say, under one diary entry, previous dates 
when it says a call was attempted. However, there hasnt been anything provided which 
supports those calls were made on those dates. There isnt any information surrounding 
when the calls were actually made, such as time of day, or whether a voicemail was left or 
there was the facility to do so. 
The alleged call attempts were said to have been on 19 November 2022 and 
20 December 2022 but are all logged under a single system note dated 25 January 2023. 
Im unsure why, if they were made on the dates outlined, they wouldnt be recorded 
separately on those actual dates, rather than all on 25 January 2023  after the TV had been 
disposed of and theyd told Miss G this when she chased them. Instead, there are no system 
notes between 17 November 2022 when the claim was declined and 25 January 2023 when 
Miss G had been told the TV had been disposed of.
D&G has provided a copy of a letter dated 23 December 2022 addressed to Miss G advising 
the TV would be disposed of unless she contacted the agent within 28 days. But no proof of 
this actually being sent has been provided either, and there are no system notes which show 
this was sent at that time either. Instead this is also in the notes from 25 January 2023, 
rather than when the letter was dated.
The policy terms outline a TV would be disposed of when it is replaced under a claim. But 
that isnt what happened here. And Im not satisfied D&G has sufficiently demonstrated 
attempts were made to contact Miss G before disposing of the item when they did. 
I also note that whilst D&G say the TV was disposed of on 20 January 2023 and their system 
notes (dated 25 January 2023) say this, there is also a note on the system, (added 25 
January 2023 too) which says it was disposed of on 13 January 2023 - which would be 
within the 28 days of the letter, even if Miss G had received it and contacted D&G within that 
time. Whilst I cant be sure exactly when it was disposed of, either way Im not satisfied D&G 
has demonstrated sufficient contact attempts were made prior to doing so. So, I agree with our investigator that £150 compensation for disposing of the damaged TV is a fair and 
reasonable amount in the circumstances.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to:
Pay Miss G £150 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman