DRN-3346267
The complaint
Mrs K complaints that Barclays Bank UK PLC lowered the limit on her credit card. 
Mrs K is being represented in her complaint by her husband. For ease I will refer to all 
actions as being those of Mrs K.
What happened
Whilst on holiday with her family in August 2021 Mrs K found out that the limit on her credit 
card had been reduced from £9,000 to £3,100. This caused a lot of inconvenience and 
meant Mrs K and her family had to change their holiday plans.
Mrs K complained to Barclays asking that the credit limit be restored, or at least increased. 
Barclays said they regularly review customers accounts and that the limit decrease had been 
done as per the terms and conditions of the account. Barclays acknowledged that the 
decrease had affected Mrs Ks holiday plans, but they didnt uphold the complaint.
Barclays didnt agree to restore or increase the credit limit so Mrs K brought her complaint to 
our service where one of our Investigators looked into things. Our investigator, whilst 
acknowledging the impact of what happened, didnt think that Barclays had made any errors 
when reducing the credit limit. They said the terms and conditions allowed for the decrease 
and the letter explaining the decrease was sent as it shouldve been.
Mrs K provided more background about the effect the decrease had on her and her family. 
Because Mrs K remained unhappy the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mrs K that Ive read and carefully considered all of the information thats 
been provided. Its clear to me that the decrease in credit limit had a wide-ranging effect on 
Mrs K and her family. Mrs K said that the holiday they were on at the time was the trip of a 
lifetime, and reading all the things about her family situation I believe this was certainly the 
case. Ive not underestimated the effect of what happened, and I can very much understand 
Mrs Ks upset and level of feeling about it.
In situations like this I need to consider both sides of what happened. So whilst I know the 
impact on Mrs K and her family, I also need to think about the actions of Barclays.
Barclays have said that the terms and conditions of the account allow them to lower the 
credit limit without notice; and I agree they do say that. Here Barclays wrote to Mrs K a few 
days before the limit decrease was going to take place. So Im satisfied they acted inline with 
the terms and conditions, both with the limit decrease and the notification letter. What has 
caused the effect on Mrs K is the very unfortunate timing of the limit decrease.
Mrs K was away with her family on their holiday when Barclays wrote to her. This meant that 
she didnt see the letter, and so was unaware of the limit decrease. Mrs K has said that the 
timing, which was during the school holidays, beggars belief. And I can see why she feels 
this way. 
Barclays have said they regularly review customers accounts to make sure they are lending 
responsibly. This is standard practice for businesses like Barclays who offer revolving credit 
facilities such as a credit card. Barclays naturally werent aware that Mrs K and her family 
were on holiday at the time, and nor that she had been steadily reducing the outstanding 
balance over the previous months in order to finance the trip. 
The account review which led to the limit decrease was part of a normal process. But to say 
that it came at the worst possible time for Mrs K is an understatement and I think the timing 
was an awful co-incidence. But in the end Barclays were entitled to take the action they did, 
and Ive seen no malice or intent with the timing. It just so happens that Mrs K and her family 
were on holiday at the time.
Mrs K has asked that Barclays increase the credit limit and also pay compensation for the 
loss of the holiday. However these arent things I can recommend. The timing was bad and 
had an impact on Mrs K and her family, which as Ive said I dont underestimate. However 
Im satisfied Barclays acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions, 
when lowering the credit limit. So I wont be asking them to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman