DRN-1637586
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC took too long to remove defaults from his 
credit file. As a result, his mortgage application was declined.
What happened
Mr C held a loan account with Barclays which was in joint names with his ex wife. He also 
had a debt on a current account which was in his sole name. His assets were frozen during 
divorce proceedings and he couldnt make the loan repayments or clear the debt on the 
current account. Consequently, Barclays defaulted both accounts and registered the defaults 
with the credit reference agencies.
After his divorce, Mr C reached an agreement with Barclays to settle both debts. He made a 
payment in full and final settlement of the debts on 18 April 2019. At the time, he let Barclays 
know that he was in the process of buying a house and was applying for a mortgage. He told 
Barclays it was important, therefore, that his credit file was updated quickly. He said 
Barclays reassured him that his credit file would be updated no later than the first week in 
May 2019. 
However, his credit file wasnt updated until 24 May 2019. 
Mr C said his mortgage application was declined because the defaults were still showing on 
his credit file. He said he was left with no option but to take out a mortgage with a sub prime 
lender at a higher interest rate because he was under pressure from the vendor to exchange 
contracts.
Also, he didnt receive a letter confirming that hed settled the debts, but Barclays did send a 
letter to his ex wife. 
Mr C complained to Barclays. He asked it to compensate him for the additional interest of 
£2,000 per month that he pays towards his mortgage, or to provide him with a mortgage at a 
lower, standard rate of interest. 
Barclays admitted there had been delays in processing information internally and the 
defaults were not updated as swiftly as it would have liked. However, it said it gave him no 
assurances on precisely when the credit files would be updated and advised him that the 
credit reference agencies have their own timescales. 
Barclays offered to pay him £100 for the trouble and upset caused by its delay. However, it 
didnt accept liability for his declined mortgage application. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this outcome, so he asked us to investigate. While we were looking 
into his complaint, he received a notice of arrears letter from Barclays dated 10 October 
2019.
An investigator looked into his complaint and partially upheld it. She felt unable to conclude 
that Barclays was responsible for him losing his mortgage application. However, she agreed to increase the compensation offer to £200 because the bank sent him a letter about arrears, 
even though he had settled the accounts. 
She also asked Barclays to confirm in writing that the accounts had been settled.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view. He said he made it clear in his calls to 
Barclays that he needed his credit files to be updated. This would determine whether he got 
a standard mortgage or a sub prime mortgage. And he said Barclays continued to make 
mistakes, as the notice of arrears letter demonstrates.  
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I agree with the investigators view and for broadly the same 
reasons.
Barclays has admitted there were internal delays and has offered to pay £100 compensation 
by way of an apology. I dont believe I need to repeat why or how the delays arose.
My task is to consider whether its delays led directly to Mr Cs loss in having to take out a 
high interest mortgage. Im afraid I dont believe they did.
I understand that Mr C didnt actually receive a mortgage offer from a high street lender. A 
mortgage broker was considering his application.  Its not clear from the brokers letter 
whether any applications were made to high street lenders. He merely advises that the 
range of available products was limited because of the defaults on Mr Cs credit file.
Also, as the investigator explained, a mortgage application may be declined or withdrawn for 
any number of reasons or combination of reasons. As things stand, theres no evidence that 
any application would have been declined because of the defaults alone.
Even if an application were refused because of the defaults, I would still have to consider 
whether there was anything Mr C could do to avoid taking out a high interest mortgage, such 
as asking for more time from the vendor so that his credit file could be updated. I appreciate 
this isnt always easy in a house purchase, especially if there are other potential buyers. 
However, there is no evidence here that Mr C took any steps to mitigate his loss.
Im also satisfied that Barclays didnt give Mr C any assurances that his credit file would be 
updated at the beginning of May 2019. Ive listened to the phone conversations with 
Barclays. I thought the Barclays agent clearly explained that it would take until the end of 
April for Mr Cs payments to be processed. He said Barclays would then send the updated 
information to the credit reference agencies. He said it could take a month for the credit 
reference agencies to update their records and this was out of Barclays control.  And 
despite the internal delays at Barclays, this timescale was roughly consistent with actual 
events. Mr Cs credit file was updated on 24 May 2019.
For these reasons, I don't consider that Barclays can be held liable for Mr C having to take 
out a mortgage with a higher interest rate.
Barclays hasnt explained why it sent Mr C a notice of arrears letter but has agreed to pay 
him a further £100 for its error. I fully understand why Mr C has little confidence in the bank after receiving this letter. However, I think this is a fair and reasonable sum for the upset it 
has caused him.
In these circumstances, I wont be asking Barclays to pay more than £200 for the trouble and 
upset it has caused Mr C.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr C. I know this isnt the outcome he was 
hoping for and I appreciate he doesnt believe that the compensation award will prompt 
Barclays to improve its customer service. However, this service is an informal dispute 
resolution service and we dont have powers to fine businesses.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint. 
It remains open to Mr C to accept the offer of £200 compensation for his trouble and upset 
from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman