DRN-2468828
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds settlement offer and customer 
service following a mobile phone claim under her gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Gs husband was having problems with his mobile phone. Ms G made a claim and sent 
the phone to Assurant. She also paid the £50 policy excess. Within a couple of days, a 
replacement phone was sent to Ms G as Assurant couldnt repair the original phone.
Assurant said the new phone was an upgrade as they didnt have the exact same model 
available to send to Ms G. But Ms G and her husband said the new phone was faulty. The 
battery maximum capacity was 83% and it was shutting down by itself. Ms G contacted 
Assurant and as the phone was within warranty Assurant said it could be sent back for 
checking. Ms G said she didnt hear any more until a phone was delivered to her again a few 
days later. At this point she discovered this was the replacement phone that shed just sent 
back.
Ms G went back to Assurant who said it had checked the replacement phone and hadnt 
found the faults Ms G referred to. It said the battery capacity was above the threshold 
required by the manufacturer and it wasnt willing to do any more. Ms G didnt accept this 
and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the replacement phone provided 
by Assurant was reasonable. He said even though the battery capacity was slightly lower on 
the replacement phone than the one Ms G claimed for it was still an upgrade phone. He said 
the phone had been checked and unlike the original phone the checks had shown that this 
phone was working within manufacturers guidelines. He suggested that without evidence of 
a fault he didnt think Assurant had done anything wrong.
Ms G didnt accept this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that the phone claimed for wasnt working properly. 
Unfortunately, when Ms G said shed like the original phone she claimed for back (as she 
said it was working better than the replacement) this wasnt possible as it had already been 
sent off for recycling.
The policy allows Assurant to repair or replace and as the original phone couldnt be 
repaired it opted to replace. Based on the original model claimed for and the replacement 
Assurant provided I think this was an upgraded phone, as highlighted by the extra memory 
capacity. I understand that Ms G wasnt happy that the battery capacity was lower on the 
replacement phone and that shed found it had shutdown on occasion. But Assurant didnt 
find any fault of this nature when it checked the replacement phone again after it was 
returned.
Assurant has shown the battery capacity was within the boundaries set by the 
manufacturers. Im, afraid theres no proof of other faults with the replacement phone. Ive no 
reason to doubt what Ms G said about the phone shutting down. But Ive also no reason to 
doubt what Assurant said about there being no signs of a fault when it checked the phone 
after return. Without further evidence its difficult to uphold such a complaint.
I think the replacement phone and the time taken to provide it were reasonable. Assurant 
confirmed it ran checks on the phone when it was returned and couldnt find any of the faults 
described by Ms G, losing charge, shutting down, etc. It didnt dispute Ms Gs point about the 
battery capacity being lower but confirmed and provided evidence to show this was accepted 
by the manufacturer. Our investigator suggested some independent evidence might be 
helpful to Ms G, but Ive not seen anything further proving there were other issues with the 
phone. Ms G is questioning of what tests or checks Assurant did carry out on the 
replacement phone when it was sent back. And I can understand her suspicion. But as 
confirmed by our investigator Ms G was welcome to provide her own evidence to show there 
were faults and we can only work with the evidence provided. So, in the circumstances I 
think Assurant acted reasonably and fairly.
In terms of how quickly Assurant acted, the replacement phone was provided within a couple 
of days and the returned replacement was sent back within 5 days. Assurant couldve 
communicated the return of the replacement better prior to it being sent back to Ms G but 
overall, I think it dealt with the claim reasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Assurant General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman