DRN-2454758
The complaint
Mr F complains that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) havent settled his claim under his car 
insurance. Mr F wants Lloyds to settle the claim.
What happened
Mr F reported the theft of his car to Lloyds who in turn instructed an agent  who Ill refer to 
as company B  to carry out an investigation. Mr F was unhappy so Lloyds contacted Mr F 
to discuss concerns he had about the handling of their investigation by company B. He said 
he was concerned the main focus appeared to be an investigation into the owner of the car 
rather than the theft. Lloyds responded to Mr Fs concerns.
  
Company B sent a final report to Lloyds setting out their position in the matter. They said the 
claim wasnt validated. They set out their concerns and also evidence which they had 
requested from Mr F but which hadnt been provided. Lloyds then wrote to Mr F to say they 
wouldnt be indemnifying his claim at that stage. They said there were a number of 
discrepancies in the facts of the claim and asked him to provide the information requested 
within 28 days otherwise they would close their file.  
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr F. She felt Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly in their 
handling of Mr Fs claim. Lloyds told us they havent declined the claim but further 
information is required from Mr F before a decision can be made on the claim. Mr F 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr F will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Theres no dispute here that the claim falls within the terms of Mr Fs policy so Ive looked 
into whether Lloyds have acted fairly and reasonably in their handling of the claim. 
Insurers often appoint claim investigators experienced in this type of work to look at the 
circumstances of the claim, and thats what Lloyds did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its 
reasonable for Lloyds to rely on company Bs findings when deciding how to deal with the 
claim. I can see that company B spoke with Mr F and his father to establish the facts in the 
claim. They had concerns about the information given so they asked Mr F to provide 
evidence. Company B didnt receive the evidence requested so they closed their file. 
The file was reopened following contact from Mr F and another phone call took place to help 
company B establish the facts. Company B asked for evidence again. Having not received 
this they closed the file and sent a final report to Lloyds. I can see from the final report, 
company B set out their concerns about the claim and list the evidence they required from 
Mr F. They asked for CCTV footage, evidence of the condition of the car and receipts for all 
parts purchased for the car. Given the concerns company B had, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for them to ask for this evidence.  
Lloyds decided not to indemnity the claim and I can see they based this on the findings 
made by company B in their report. This report sets out a detailed account of the outcome of 
company Bs discussions with Mr F and his father and their concerns. They also set out the 
evidence they required and I can see why they asked for this and how its relevant to the 
claim. Ive listened to a phone call between Mr F and Lloyds in which he confirms he has 
received the requests for evidence, so it is my view that Mr F was aware about the 
information required. I can see that Lloyds have written to Mr F setting out what they need in 
order to consider the claim further. So, taking this into account, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to say they couldnt indemnify the claim. And, I think theyve acted 
fairly in asking for the evidence in order to consider the claim further.       
I note from the phone call between Mr F and Lloyds, he talks about enquiries hes made but 
it being difficult for him to get some of the information requested as it would need to be the 
police who request it. He mentions hes reported the theft to the police but they arent 
carrying out further lines of enquiry. I do understand this will be frustrating and the impact 
this will have on Mr Fs claim. However, I cant say there have been any errors in Lloyds 
handling of the claim as the information requested is considered to be necessary. Mr F might 
want to raise a separate complaint if he feels the police arent carrying out enquiries but that 
isnt something our service is able to look into. 
In summary, I dont think Lloyds have acted unfairly or unreasonably in not indemnifying Mr 
Fs claim and in requesting the further evidence in order to consider his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman