DRN-3882072
The complaint
Mr B complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to 
keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Lighthouse.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr B was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to 
Lighthouse which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered 
about his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as 
follows:
Mr B was 54 years and 11 months old and was married. He was described as having 
a medical condition currently preventing him from working. Mrs B was currently 
caring for him.
Mr B had previously accrued over 36 years worth of service with BSPS but had left a 
short time the company previously on a redundancy package. He and Mrs B were 
said to be living off the redundancy payment in the meantime, but this was due to run 
out in a few short months. Mr B was receiving around £719 per month in state 
benefits and as his current care giver, Mrs B was receiving around £268 per month in 
benefits.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Bs BSPS was approximately 
£894,144. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. 
Mr and Mrs B lived in a home valued at around £180,000 with no mortgage 
outstanding. They had no other significant assets or liabilities. 
Lighthouse set out its advice in a suitability report on 13 December 2017. In this it advised 
Mr B to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. 
Lighthouse said this would allow Mr B to achieve his objectives. Mr B accepted this advice 
and so transferred out. In 2022 Mr B complained to Lighthouse about its advice, saying he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. Lighthouse didnt agree it 
had done anything wrong.
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in May 2022. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, Lighthouse 
said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr B had at the 
time. 
As the complaint cant be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Lighthouse's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Lighthouse should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Bs best interests. In particular, I have also carefully considered the final response letter from Lighthouse. Ive carefully considered too, the 
various other responses made to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Financial viability and introductory issues 
Our investigator referred in his view letter to critical yield rates. These were also referred to 
in Lighthouses transfer analysis and suitability report. The critical yield is essentially the 
average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the 
time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the DB scheme. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Our investigator pointed out that the critical yield required to match 
the benefits of the BSPS at the NRA of 65 was 8.22%. This would normally tend to 
demonstrate that transferring away from the DB scheme was unlikely to be financially viable. 
This is because reaching this level of annual growth outside the scheme year-on-year would 
be very difficult to achieve. In my view, it would be highly unlikely.
I can say this because the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. But this hadnt been updated 
for some time and in 2017 we were in the midst of very low interest rates and low bond 
yields so I think that realistically growth projections could have been even lower. Ive also 
seen, for example, that the fund provider which was being considered by Lighthouse here 
issued low / mid / high growth assumptions that were -1.7%, 1.3% and 4.2% respectively. 
Another growth assumption used in the suitability report offered -0.49%, 2.44% and 5.37% 
respectively. Lighthouse had assessed Mr Bs attitude to risk as being low-medium and I 
noted hed never bought any shares in his life or managed his own pension funds.
However, in this case, I dont think the critical yield comparison really takes us anywhere 
other than demonstrating the inherent value someone could be giving up by transferring 
away from a guaranteed pension for life, in what were clearly challenging economic times. I 
say this because I think it was very clear from the outset that Mr B wasnt going to 
realistically wait until the NRA of 65 to start accessing his DB pension scheme. In fact, 
retirement was imminent for Mr B. Hed already stopped working and he was suffering from 
a medical condition which seemed to mean paid employment was off the agenda, at least in 
the short-term. Mr B was receiving state benefits associated with his health challenges and 
Mrs B was also receiving a carers allowance in benefits. And to make a living over the last 
year, which required an income of around £2,000 per month, theyd been supplementing this 
state support with Mr Bs redundancy payment. 
The same critical yield issue applies to comparisons with the PPF. The critical yields 
benchmarked against the PPF would have been generally lower than the BSPS, but our 
investigator still concluded Mr B shouldnt have ever been advised to transfer to a personal 
pension arrangement because even reaching the PPF critical yields wasnt sustainable in 
the longer term: at the NRA of 65 hed be worse off in financial comparison terms. So, on 
financial viability grounds, if suitably advised, the investigator concluded that Mr B would 
have probably opted not to transfer to a personal pension arrangement. It simply wasnt 
worthwhile. 
But again, I return to Mr Bs particular circumstances. These were that he wasnt ever 
considering taking his pension benefits at the NRA. In fact, he was insistent upon a 
retirement at the age of 55 which was only a few weeks away for him. This was mainly due 
to his health and the fact he had no major sources of income other than state benefits at the 
time. So, as our investigator pointed out, he needed to start drawing a pension (early). And in his case, the benefits for a 55-year-old taking more or less immediate retirement were 
slightly higher in the PPF as opposed to the BSPS2. I explain more about this later.
As regards other issues related to financial viability, I can see the transfer analysis document 
(usually referred to as a TVAS) of 24 November 2017 said that for the age of 55 in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by 
the existing [BSPS] scheme at retirement the estimated Fund Required, also known as the 
Capital Value was £1,198,163. This related to retiring and taking a tax-free lump sum. If not 
taking a lump sum then the figure was even higher; £1,540,031.
To reiterate, these figures are found in Lighthouses own analysis based on data the 
regulator required businesses to refer to at the time. I accept they related to the BSPS rather 
than the PPF, but Lighthouse didnt list the PPF values. However, because these figures are 
substantially above Mr Bs CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the 
value of the guaranteed pension Mr B could be giving up by transferring away to a personal 
plan, rather than a similar DB scheme such as the PPF that was on offer here.
However, it seems to me the adviser portrayed some other figures about this which I think 
were misleading. It said, for example, that the fund required to buy a pension was only 
£619,933 whilst Mr Bs CETV was much higher than this. But in my view it was wrong to 
portray Mr Bs options in this way. What the adviser was describing here was a pension 
which had no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no guarantee at retirement. In 
short, it was a much inferior pension to the one he already had and the options he had going 
forward.
Ive also considered some projections Lighthouse used to help show that if he transferred 
out to a personal plan, the funds could last Mr B well into retirement. But I think most of 
these were based on growth projections which were high and likely based on past 
performance. Its also fair to say these were not comparing like-with-like. What Lighthouse 
was showing Mr B were comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of 
a DB scheme. 
Of course, in this case and according to Lighthouse, its recommendation that he should 
transfer out to a personal pension was not based on the financial comparisons with his 
current scheme. Rather, Lighthouse said Mr B also had other reasons to transfer away, so 
Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was 
suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below.
Other needs and objectives
Lighthouse recommended a transfer to a personal pension plan based on what it said were 
Mr Bs wider objectives. What the adviser was trying to do was show that Mr B had a need 
for a flexible income, rather than a fixed one as provided by a DB scheme. But overall I dont 
think any credible case for a flexible income was made out by the adviser. The case for this 
was predominately based on the implication that Mr B might want to take a different income 
at certain points in the future and this might be influenced by his receipt of benefits until his 
and Mrs Bs state pensions kicked in at the ages of around 66 and 67 respectively. 
The suitability report and other documents give a flavour of what issues Mr B considered to 
be important to his pension thinking at the time:
Mr B wanted immediate retirement which meant accessing his benefits at the age of 
55. He was concerned about the uncertainties of that time, around the BSPS. 
With access to his pension, Mr B wanted to establish an annual income which would 
help cover all his living expenses and spending of around £2,000 per month. From 
what Ive seen this included essential and discretionary spending on a month-to-
month basis.
Mr B also wanted to use part of his pension tax-free lump sum allowance to fund any 
future spending events (unspecified) such as potential gifts to adult children and / or 
holidays. He also he wanted to establish an emergency contingency fund in savings 
of around £20,000.
He wanted his tax-free pension lump sum to be enough to occasionally dip into for 
income if that became necessary. 
It doesnt seem to me that any of these objectives were unreasonable. Mr Bs pension was 
large by the standards of most people and so given its size, I think these were realistic 
aspirations. However, I think its fair to categorise the advisers thinking by saying their 
rationale for transferring Mr B away from a DB scheme was mainly based on the flexibility 
and control this offered to him. I have therefore considered these issues in turn. 
Retiring early and flexibility
Ive made the assumption that Mr B wasnt going to return to paid employment in the short 
term. He may not even have been contemplating returning to work at all but the records from 
the time dont really offer a view on this. So, we know he was not working at the time and he 
needed care from Mrs B, but the longer-term prognosis is unclear.
But even if I were to consider that Mr Bs retirement plans were fixed in that he wasnt ever 
likely to return to paid employment, I think Lighthouse should have assessed the possibility 
of achieving his retirement goals whilst being a member of a DB scheme rather than 
transferring away, irreversibly, to a personal pension arrangement. The options Mr B faced 
were to move across into the new BSPS2 and we know hed already made this selection, if 
only as a precaution whilst seeking financial and pension advice. His other option was to 
move into the PPF and he could still make that choice providing he did so before the 
deadline Ive mentioned at the beginning of this decision. 
Early retirement under the BSPS2, and indeed the PPF, were therefore still viable options for 
Mr B. Retiring early from either scheme would have meant Mr Bs pension benefits would 
have been somewhat different to those hed have got if he had been able to work until the 
NRA of 65. Ive noted the adviser referred to this as a penalty but I dont think this is 
representative or fair. Taking benefits from either scheme at the age of 55 meant he would 
be accessing his pension earlier and for longer, so Mr B wasnt being penalised, he was just 
taking money out well ahead of the NRA. I think this could have been explained much better 
by the adviser as it could have unduly influenced Mr B.
Lighthouses analysis set out what he might get by opting for either the BSPS2 or PPF and 
accessing the benefits straight away, at 55. There were some minor differences in the 
annual pension figures and the tax-free lump sums depending on whether you read the 
TVAS or the suitability report. I think this was probably because some of the analysis was 
carried out before Lighthouse fully understood the details of the emerging BSPS2. However, 
these minor variances dont fundamentally change anything. What the analysis was broadly 
saying was that if Mr B remained with his BSPS2 choice, then hed be able to start drawing 
an annual pension of around £18,000 and also receive a tax-free lump sum of around 
£120,000. For the PPF, the figures were slightly higher although I note these were set out in the TVAS which pre-dated the suitability report by around 3 weeks. Nevertheless, 
Lighthouse calculated that as a member of the PPF scheme, Mr Bs annual pension would 
be around £21,000 and his tax-free lump sum around £140,000. So, I think its fair to say 
that if given the choice and had it properly explained to him, Mr B would have probably 
wanted to move into the PPF as he was slightly better off by doing so.
This all means that Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr B wouldnt want to continue 
membership of a DB scheme  in this case Im saying this was the PPF - and to use that 
scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. If all he needed in retirement income 
was around £24,000 per year, I think the adviser should have pointed out that this seemed 
achievable given the potential PPF income I have set out above and the other state benefit 
income he and Mrs B could call upon. 
There was no indication the benefit payments would be discontinued, at least for the time 
being and so I think its important to remember that the adviser couldnt possibly say whether 
the benefits would cease, and if so, when. In fact, the adviser said this about Mrs B in the 
suitability report, she is your carer so will receive that benefit long-term. So, if anything, I 
think the adviser was basically factoring-in benefit payments continuing for a long time. 
Theres no further evidence this feature of Mr and Mrs Bs overall income was really 
discussed in detail or what the rules might be if Mr Bs income or wealth reached certain 
levels. But in any event, the documents from the time of this advice say that the benefits 
reappraisal was not being made until the following year.
So, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Bs annual income from both the PPF and his 
benefits entitlement, wouldnt have fairly easily met their anticipated future income 
requirements, without any need for him to transfer away from a DB scheme. The benefits 
amounted to almost £12,000 per year and the PPF income was around £21,000 per year. 
The tax-free lump sum would have also covered off Mr Bs other objectives such as building 
an emergency fund and they had no big outstanding liabilities such as a mortgage. So, I 
think flexibility was poorly defined. It sounded good but it didnt really have any relevance to 
Mr Bs situation. In my view, he would have easily been able to achieve what he wanted to 
with his pension by moving to the PPF.
I think Lighthouse also promoted to Mr B that he could access more tax-free cash if he 
transferred to a personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as 
a lump-sum and then use the remaining funds more flexibly and in a personal pension the 
lump-sum would be much higher. 
But again, this needed a careful explanation. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash 
can be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is 
because the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But 
Lighthouse should have been telling Mr B at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being 
removed from a personal pension, clearly from the age of 55 in his case, also came with 
consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously 
decrease. I also cant see there was a need for substantially more tax-free cash. As Ive 
said, 2017 was a period where a low interest rate environment had persisted for many years 
so the interest on cash was poor and there were no specific large-scale purchases on the 
horizon for Mr and Mrs B; they seem to me very much like people who had a modest and 
sensible approach to money. 
Overall, I think flexibility would have sounded positive to Mr B. However, I cant see that he 
and Mrs B required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. In any event, 
flexibility was poorly defined by Lighthouse. Ive seen nothing that showed Mr B required 
changing how his retirement benefits ought to be paid at the point he was seeking the 
advice.  Control of the funds
In essence, this is an extension of the above points Ive made. However, Ive also seen no 
evidence that Mr B had either the capacity or desire to exercise control over his funds. Mr B 
was being offered the opportunity to transfer to the new BSPS2 or the PPF. Its true there 
were some differences in these schemes when compared to the original BSPS, but they 
remained DB schemes nonetheless and were run for him by trustees. 
I accept that Mr B may have had a basic understanding of pensions but theres no evidence 
he was an experienced investor. This was a very large amount of money so I think he would 
have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over £894,000 of his own 
transferred funds from his DB scheme to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen 
tends to show Mr B would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which 
would cost him money which his DB scheme didnt require from him. He simply didnt have 
the experience to personally manage the funds.
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject. When asked, I think most people would like their 
loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse if Mr B died. 
Mr B was married so I think the value of these benefits were most likely underplayed 
because the spouses pension provided by the PPF, for example, would have been useful to 
Mrs B if Mr B predeceased her. I think his wife would have found this benefit a source of 
comfort and security. Lighthouse didnt really record many details about Mrs Bs financial 
situation. But theres certainly no evidence she had a meaningful pension of her own as the 
only record we have is of a very small defined contribution pension totalling £4,700. If she 
had any other pension then Id have expected this to be comprehensively explained and 
used to back up the advice for Mr B to leave his DB scheme.
I therefore dont think Lighthouse made the real value of this benefit area clear enough. The 
death benefits were substantial in both the BSPS2 and the PPF; they were guaranteed and 
they escalated  they were not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
I think the adviser probably discussed with Mr B that hed be able to pass on the value of a 
personal pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. So, the lump sum death 
benefits on offer through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive 
feature to him. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B 
might have thought it was a good idea to transfer to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Lighthouse explored 
to what extent Mr B was prepared to accept a different retirement income in exchange for 
different death benefits.
An obvious drawback with a personal plans death benefits is that the amount left to pass on 
 to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the pensioner starts to withdraw his or her 
retirement income. To this end, if Mr B had lived a long life there could be much less left in 
his personal pension plan. I accept Mr B had a health condition which was no doubt a worry 
for him and Mrs B. But the full details of this medical condition werent really established and 
the adviser certainly didnt use this as a rationale for transferring due to the different death 
benefits available to Mr B. Retiring at 55 is still early. The adviser should have therefore 
additionally known that a male even with a health condition  such as the one Mr B had at the time  might still have many years ahead in which he would be drawing down his 
pension funds thus leaving less to pass on to someone.
If moving to the PPF rather than transferring to a personal pension plan, I still think Mrs B 
would have been financially well protected if something unexpected had happened to Mr B. I 
say this because shed have an income of around half his annual pension for the rest of her 
life and in due course shed have her own state pension. There was no evidence Mr Bs life 
expectancy was so short as to make these assumptions unreasonable; one document even 
said his health was average. If moving to the PPF and taking a lump sum, I think its fair to 
point out that Mr and Mrs B would initially have a substantial six-figure sum in savings  so I 
think its credible to say that even if Mr Bs health did become very concerning, or he died 
well ahead of his life expectancy, then Mrs B would still likely have had access to a 
significant lump sum as well as an ongoing spouses pension.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Bs situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr B, like many employees of his former company, was concerned about his 
pension. His former employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the 
scheme and Lighthouse said he lacked trust in the company. He may well have heard 
negative things about the PPF and Lighthouse said he could have more control over his 
pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr B was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Lighthouses obligation to give Mr B an objective picture and recommend what was in 
his best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead; Mr B had even provisionally elected this at the point of the advice. So, I 
think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
However, I think that Lighthouse should have reassured Mr B that the scheme moving to the 
PPF wasnt as concerning as he might have originally thought. As I have shown, the benefits 
available to Mr B through the PPF were actually more than the BSPS2 in his case and so 
would have provided a significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement. 
And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still 
guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns 
should have led to Lighthouses recommendation to Mr B to transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
Suitability of investments 
Lighthouse recommended that Mr B invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr B 
and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had 
been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in a DB scheme 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free 
and increasing income within the BSPS2 or the PPF. 
Because of Mr Bs situation, the PPF was the better choice for him from a financial 
perspective. He was also sure he wanted to access his pension more or less straight away 
and there was a possibility that he wouldnt be working again any time soon.
Mr B didnt need income flexibility in the way Lighthouse implied. His retirement objectives 
appeared sustainable without transferring away from a DB scheme; by doing so hed be 
incorporating a market risk which I dont think he was comfortable with and it simply wasnt 
necessary. I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the 
transfer and outweigh this. 
I therefore think Lighthouse ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB 
scheme for these reasons and his circumstances here were much more aligned to him 
moving to the PPF.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr B would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Lighthouse disclosed some of 
the risks of transferring to Mr B, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr B to transfer out, and I think Mr B relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr B would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Lighthouses advice. I say this because Mr B was an inexperienced investor and this 
was a large pension which accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at the time. 
So, if Lighthouse had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that 
advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Bs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, was advising him on this course of action. 
In light of the above, I think Lighthouse should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Lighthouses unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B 
would have most likely opted to join the PPF, rather than transfer to the personal pension if 
he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on an early retirement 
age of 55. I have explained in the decision why this is. 
To be clear, Lighthouse should use the benefits offered by the PPF for comparison 
purposes.
Lighthouse must undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress 
for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set 
out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. Lighthouse should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress 
as if hed joined the PPF. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and 
our Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what 
Lighthouse based the inputs into the calculator on.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Lighthouse should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts Lighthouses offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Lighthouse may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Lighthouse 
Advisory Services Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Lighthouse 
Advisory Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman