DRN-3286695
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) applied a default to her credit file, 
following some missed payments towards her overdraft account.
What happened
Miss C has complained about the overdraft fees and Lloyds response to her financial 
difficulties. But Ive previously issued a decision explaining why our service cant consider 
these complaint points as they arent in our jurisdiction. 
So this decision will only be looking at whether Lloyds acted unfairly in reporting a default to 
Miss Cs credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the account notes and statements. The statements show between 2014 until 
April 2016, Miss Cs account went into an unarranged overdraft, but on the couple of 
occasions this happened, Miss C brought her account back into the arranged overdraft 
within a few days. So, I dont think it would have been fair or reasonable for Lloyds to default 
Miss Cs account between 2014 and April 2016.  
Following this, Miss C contacted Lloyds in May 2016 and she notified it her partner was 
unemployed. At this point Lloyds placed a 30 day hold on the account and asked her to 
obtain information, so it could complete an income and expenditure assessment. But Miss C 
didnt contact it and so the hold was removed. The statements show after the hold was 
removed, Miss C continued to use her account and she sometimes made use of the 
accounts unarranged overdraft, but payments were made into the account to bring the 
account within its arranged overdraft limit. The last payment to the account was made in 
December 2016. As Miss Cs account wasnt in arrears for more than a couple of days 
between May 2016 and December 2016, it wouldnt have been fair or reasonable for Lloyds 
to default the account during this time.
No further payments were made to the account from late December 2016. And because the 
account had been in an unarranged overdraft for an extended period, Lloyds reported a 
default to the credit reference agencies in May 2017. 
In its Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies, the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says a business can 
register a default after a customer is behind with their payments for three months. And that it 
expects businesses to register a default by the time a customer is six months behind with 
their payments. I consider this to be representative of good industry practice. And as a 
minimum, would expect a lender to act in accordance with these principles when deciding 
whether to default a consumers account. 
Having thought about the dates here and the account activity, I think it was appropriate for 
Lloyds to report a default to credit reference agencies when it did. This is because Miss Cs 
account was in an unarranged overdraft and she was behind with her payments for around 
five months. So Lloyds was entitled to register that the account had defaulted as per the ICO 
guidance.
I now turn to Miss Cs complaint that Lloyds didnt notify her of its intention to file a default. 
She says she only found out about it when a third-party debt collector contacted her. 
However, system notes show an arrears letter was sent to Miss C in February 2017 and a 
formal demand notice was issued in March 2017. Lloyds doesnt have a copy of the letters it 
sent, but has provided us with system notes showing the dates they were sent and the 
codes for the letters that were sent. Having thought about this, I think its more likely than 
not, that they were sent to Miss C at the address Lloyds had recorded on file. In light of this, 
Im satisfied Lloyds notified Miss C of its intention to report a default to her credit file.
Overall, I think its more likely than not, that Lloyds provided the relevant notice to Miss C 
about its intention to file a default. And as the account wasnt brought up to date by the date 
provided in the notice, Im satisfied the date Lloyds reported the default is correct.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman