DRN-3305723
The complaint
Ms S complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited wont remove her ex-husband 
from their joint mortgage, and wont allow her to switch the mortgage onto a lower interest 
rate. 
What happened
In 2004, Ms S and her then husband took out a mortgage with First National Home Finance, 
on a fixed interest rate for the first five years. The mortgage has since been sold to 
Kensington, and has been on the lenders standard variable rate (SVR) of interest since 
2009. 
Ms S says she has been paying the mortgage on her own since 2010, and she and her 
husband divorced in 2016. She wants her ex-husbands name to come off the mortgage, and 
to switch it onto a lower interest rate. Kensington wont let her take a new interest rate 
product without her ex-husbands agreement, and Ms S says thats unfair; she no longer has 
any contact with her ex-husband and she has taken responsibility for the mortgage. She 
says shes a mortgage prisoner, trapped on an unfairly high rate of interest. 
Following Ms Ss complaint, Kensington said it did have a lower interest rate product 
available to her  but she would first need to apply to change the mortgage into her sole 
name. It offered Ms S £100 for initially failing to respond properly to her complaint. 
Ms S wasnt happy with that, so she got in touch with us. Our investigator found that 
Kensington had invited Ms S to apply to transfer the mortgage into her sole name following 
an enquiry from her solicitor in 2018, but she hadnt done so. The investigator also found Ms 
S hadnt asked about a new interest rate until August 2020. 
The investigator said Kensington should have put the mortgage onto the lower interest rate it 
was offering when Ms S asked in 2020, without requiring Ms Ss ex-husbands consent. She 
noted that doing so wouldnt prejudice him, since the new rate didnt come with a charge if 
the mortgage were repaid within a particular length of time. She said Kensington should re-
work the mortgage on the basis of that lower interest rate, pay Ms S 8% simple interest on 
the extra interest she had paid, and pay her a total of £250 by way of compensation.  
Neither Ms S nor Kensington accepted that conclusion. Ms S said she should receive more 
compensation for the hassle she had been put to, and Kensington said it needs both parties 
who are named on the mortgage to agree to a new rate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, for the same 
reasons.
Kensingtons records show that it received letters from solicitors in 2017 and 2018 asking for 
the mortgage to be transferred into Ms Ss sole name. But it didnt have Ms Ss authority to 
deal with the solicitors, so it wrote back to Ms S directly, inviting her to apply to transfer the 
mortgage. I wouldnt expect Kensington simply to have transferred the mortgage into Ms Ss 
sole name without first considering her circumstances, so I think this was a reasonable 
response.
However, I find nothing to indicate that Ms S has applied to have the mortgage put into her 
sole name. If she does now do so, Kensington should give her application fair consideration 
 but it cant do that until she applies. 
I also find nothing in Kensingtons records or in what Ms S has told us to indicate that she 
asked about a new interest rate product until August 2020. 
Mortgage lenders dont have to offer new interest rate products to their customers. There is 
also nothing in the financial services regulators rules or guidance to say that lenders are 
required to contact customers proactively, inviting them to apply for a new product. So it was 
up to Ms S to ask. The terms of her and her ex-husbands mortgage said that, when the 
initial fixed interest rate ended in 2009, the mortgage would move onto the lenders SVR. 
Thats what happened, and the mortgage statements sent to Ms S would have reminded her 
of the rate she was paying, as would the letters sent when her monthly payments changed 
due to changes in the SVR.
In 2020, however, things changed. Kensington wrote to Ms S in June and July 2020, saying 
it had signed up to the UK Finance voluntary agreement to help mortgage prisoners, and 
this meant it was now offering a lower interest rate product to customers like Ms S and her 
ex-husband. It said they could switch to a lower interest rate, which would be available for 
two months, until 21 August 2020. But it also said all parties to the mortgage would need to 
agree to the change.
This prompted Ms Ss complaint. She wanted to pay a lower interest rate, but she couldnt 
get her ex-husbands agreement to it. She has provided a copy of her divorce order, which 
confirms that she would pay the mortgage and any interest her ex-husband had in the 
property was to be transferred to her.  
The new interest rate product Kensington was offering came with no set-up fees and no 
charges for early repayment. It was a variable rate, linked (when it was offered in 2020) to 
LIBOR, giving a rate in June 2020 of 4.5%. The SVR Ms S was paying at that time was 
6.97%.
So the new rate would have represented a significant saving for Ms S. And, as our 
investigator pointed out, moving the mortgage onto this new rate wouldnt have prejudiced 
Ms Ss ex-husband. On the contrary, it would have meant the mortgage would be less likely 
to go into arrears and adversely affect his credit file, since the monthly payments would have 
been more affordable for Ms S. 
In the circumstances, I think Kensington should have moved the mortgage onto the rate it 
was offering in 2020, and so the resolution the investigator proposed  applying and 
backdating the interest rate product Kensington was offering in June 2020  is a fair one. I 
think the rate should begin on 1 September 2020, by which time the switch could reasonably 
have been completed. I also think that £250 is a fair award to reflect Ms Ss inconvenience 
and time, as well as the fact that she has had to make higher monthly payments to her 
mortgage than would have been necessary had Kensington switched her mortgage to the 
new product when she asked. Putting things right
Kensington should:
1) switch Ms Ss and her ex-husbands mortgage onto the interest rate product it offered 
them in June 2020  that is, a variable rate of 4.15% above LIBOR (and the rate it has 
used to replace LIBOR now LIBOR has ended) for the term of the mortgage, reviewed 
quarterly;
2) re-work the mortgage as though it had been on the product at 1) above since 1 
September 2020;
3) refund Ms S the overpayments shes made as a result of being on a higher interest rate, 
plus simple interest at an annual rate of 8% from the date of each monthly overpayment 
to the date of settlement; and
4) pay Ms S £250 compensation.
If Kensington deducts tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Ms S how much it 
has taken off and send her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one. She may then be 
able to reclaim the tax from Her Majestys Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Kensington Mortgage Company 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman