DRN-3950565
The complaint
Mr H complains that Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow (Novaloans) gave him a loan he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr H took one loan from Novaloans for £500 on 26 August 2019. Mr H was due to make 
three monthly repayments of £193.55 and one final payment of £193.34. Mr H repaid his 
loan in December 2019.
Following Mr Hs complaint, Novaloans issued a final response letter. It detailed the checks 
that it carried out which included asking for income and expenditure details as well as 
carrying out a credit search. It was satisfied that based on these checks that Mr H could 
afford his repayments. So, it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who upheld the complaint. He concluded 
Novaloans was given information from its credit search that ought to have prompted further 
checks. Had further checks been made it wouldve likely discovered Mr H had had some 
recent repayment problems with other payday lenders. 
Mr H agreed with the proposed outcome.
 
Novaloans didnt agree because it says its decision to provide the loan was reasonable and 
in summary it said:
Some of the information the adjudicator used to uphold the complaint wasnt 
available to it at the time. 
Mr H didnt provide an accurate picture of his expenditure when asked as part of the 
application. For example, he didnt disclose he had a Hire Purchase (HP) agreement. 
There were no indications from Novaloans checks that Mr H had been subject to 
either reduced payments and / or payment plans for other loans. 
Mr H still had over £200 as a good buffer to cover unexpected costs. 
Novaloans doesnt consider two defaults in the year before the loan being approved 
to be excessive. 
Mr H repaid this loan earlier than planned. 
Novaloans credit checks showed zero active short term loan accounts and Mr H 
hadnt been funded by any in the previous six months. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Novaloans had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Novaloans checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Novaloans should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied to Mr Hs case because there was only one loan. 
Novaloans was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
Novaloans has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr H for details of 
his income and expenditure. Mr Hs income was declared as being £1,900 per month and he 
also declared his monthly outgoings were £908.99. This left more than sufficient disposable 
income for Novaloans loans to reasonably conclude that Mr H could afford his repayments of 
around £194 per month. 
Before this loan was approved Novaloans also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a summary of these results in the final response letter. I want to add that although 
Novaloans carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let 
alone one to a specific standard. But what Novaloans couldnt do, is carry out a credit search 
and then not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.  Novaloans was also entitled to rely on the results it was given, and Ive looked at the results 
to see whether there was anything contained within it that wouldve either prompted 
Novaloans to have carried out further checks or possibly have declined Mr Hs application. 
A summary of the information that Novaloans was provided is;
Mr H having 15 active accounts of which two were opened in the previous six 
months. 
Mr H had one active short term loan account and in the month before this check was 
carried out, he made repayments to short term loan lenders of £112. 
Mr H had defaulted on two accounts within the previous year  but it didnt know the 
date of these defaults. 
Mr H owed other creditors over £32,000. But just over £27,000 of that was balances 
on loans.
The results given to Novaloans indicated that Mr H, in the not too distance past, had 
problems repaying at least two creditors to the extent that these accounts were marked as in 
default. It was also on notice that in the months before the loan Mr H had been borrowing 
from other high-cost credit providers. Finally, Mr H owed a not insignificant sum to other 
creditors  with the majority of this owed on loan(s). 
However, as part of his application  Mr H declared he had credit commitments of £290 per 
month. But I dont think that was realistic for Novaloans to have accepted this figure. Firstly, 
it was aware of Mr Hs use of other short term loan providers and secondly, he had total debt 
of just over £32,000 and so Mr Hs credit commitments were likely to be higher than £290.
Novaloans was also on notice that some of the information provided to it didnt quite match 
up. And as it is the one responsible for carrying out a proportionate check I do think, in the 
circumstance of this case, its checks needed to go further than just relying on what Mr H had 
told it as well as the credit check results. Given everything Novaloans had available to it at 
the time it shouldve carried out further checks, perhaps verifying what Mr H had told it or 
checking his credit commitments. 
Novaloans couldve gone about carrying out a proportionate check in a number of ways. It 
couldve asked to see copy bank statements, copy of bills, asked for a full copy of his credit 
file or any other documentation it felt was reasonable to obtain to allow it to establish Mr Hs 
true financial position. 
A copy of Mr Hs full credit file has been provided on a previous complaint and so its entirely 
reasonable to consider this in order to determine what fuller checks may have shown 
Novaloans  had these been carried out. For ease, Ive summarised the other information 
that Ive found out from his credit file.
Mr H had an outstanding HP agreement  paying £513 per month which was around 
a quarter of his declared income at the time, before any other credit commitments 
and living costs were considered. 
In the months shortly before this loan was approved two separate credit cards 
entered arrears. One had a payment status of 2 five months before this loan. The 
other, had a missed payment around the month before this loan was granted. 
One of the defaults Novaloans was aware of was recorded only four months before 
this loan was approved, for £1,470. This was a Finance House loan.
A payday loan had been subject to a repayment plan in the months leading up to the 
loan being granted. Mr H repaid a loan in May 2019, but in the months before the loan was closed there 
were significant arrears. 
Overall, Im satisfied that a further, more detailed look into Mr Hs circumstances wouldve 
showed he was having difficulties maintaining his contractual repayments that he already 
had. And knowing this, I dont think Novaloans wouldve believed that Mr H couldve repaid 
this loan in a sustainable manner. 
While I accept the above information wasnt available to Novaloans at the point of 
application, I do think it is likely it wouldve discovered some or all of what Ive seen had it 
carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check. And as such, Im therefore upholding 
Mr Hs complaint about this loan and Ive outlined below what it needs to do in order to put 
things right for him. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Novaloans should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr H, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there 
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr H in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Novaloans liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Novaloans shouldnt have given Mr H his loan. 
A. Novaloans should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan.
B. Novaloans should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Novaloans should pay Mr H the total of A plus B.
D. Novaloans should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Hs credit 
file about the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Novaloans to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow should put things right for Mr H as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman