DRN-3285143
The complaint
In summary, Mrs H has complained that Portal Financial Services LLP, provided her with 
unsuitable advice in respect of the transfer of her pensions and the reinvestment of the 
proceeds of transfer, into high risk investments. 
In bringing her complaint, Mrs H is represented by a claims management company (CMC). 
What happened
In October 2014, Portal produced a suitability report which recommended Mrs H transfer 
three pension policies and redirect ongoing contributions into a self-invested personal 
pension plan (SIPP). The basis of the recommendation set out in Portals report, was in 
summary; to improve investment performance, switch to a cheaper scheme and have 
greater fund choice. 
The suitability report records that Mrs H was 48 and out of work. She was in receipt of 
jobseekers allowance, housing benefit, council tax benefit and child tax credits. She had 
£5,000 in savings and no disposable income each month. She had three pension policies 
with one provider, the total value of which was recorded as being £46,524. 
Mrs H was recorded as having a balanced attitude to risk (ATR). The letter also 
recorded a discussion about her capacity to take risk and the implications of any 
investment losses. The recommendation was to transfer the proceeds of transfer 
approximately 75% into an equity fund,14% into bond funds with 11% remaining in cash. 
The transfers werent made until April 2015. Approximately £40,000 was invested into 
the recommended equity fund, £7,000 into bond funds, with the balance remaining in 
cash. The ongoing contributions were invested into the recommended equity fund. 
In 2016, Mrs H transferred the money that had been invested in the equity fund and in 
cash to another pension plan. The monies invested into the bonds couldnt be sold as the 
funds were illiquid.
In November 2020 the CMC complained to Portal about the advice provided to Mrs H. It 
submitted that the advice had been unsuitable, including that Portal promoted non-
standard investments. In its response, Portal said it didnt think the CMC had authority to 
act for Mrs H. 
Mrs Hs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. Portal was asked to 
provide its file. No response or documents were received from Portal. So, the case was 
assessed on the information the investigator did have. 
Our investigator asked the SIPP provider recommended by Portal, for information about 
the status of the remaining investments in that plan. The SIPP provider explained that 
the Lakeview UK fund had a five-year term and defaulted on interest payments in 
February 2019. The borrowing company for the bond issuers were placed into 
administration in March 2020. 
It said that Real Estate Investment USA had a five-year investment term. It had defaulted 
on interest payments since 2016. The company was due to be wound up and closed. 
This was due to the borrowing company no longer servicing loan payments.
Strategic Residential Development had a five-year investment term and had defaulted on 
interest payments since October 2017.  
Hypa management was illiquid from the outset and designed to be held until maturity. It 
wasnt transferable and ceased regulated activities in 2018. It went on to say the 
company was dissolved in June 2018.
In relation to the merits of her complaint, the investigator said that the recommended 
investment into bonds was unsuitable. As the SIPP was marginally cheaper than Mrs Hs 
existing pensions, he thought compensation should be limited to the bond investments 
alone. And he set out how Portal should compensate Mrs H. 
Portal responded to the complaint. It set out in summary its two principle concerns. 
It refuted the CMCs authorisation and permission to submit complaints.
In relation to the merits of the complaint it referred to the investigator saying that the 
non-mainstream pooled investments within the SIPP were unsuitable. It didnt accept 
the investigators assessment. 
It went onto explain why it didnt accept the CMCs authority to act on behalf of Mrs H, or 
recognise it as an authorised body regarding complaints submitted to our service. 
In relation to the merits of the complaint, it said that the bond investments made up just over 
14% of the original portfolio. And the proportion of the portfolio invested in the bonds had 
fallen significantly due to the growth of the liquid element of the plan. It believed the portfolio 
was suitable due to Mrs Hs term to retirement and that the investments hadnt reached 
maturity yet. It believed the investment advice was suitable. 
In response the investigator explained he hadnt said the CMC was regulated by the 
solicitors regulation authority (SRA) to bring complaints. He said that he had said:
Portafina has said that  . cannot represent consumers in complaints. Our 
understanding is that it can. Regardless of whether Portafina took that position, it could have 
responded to Mrs H direct.
In relation to the merits argument in respect of the investment into the bonds, the 
investigator didnt agree with what Portal had said. He didnt think Portal had commented on 
the restrictions applying to the promotion of such non-mainstream investments. And he didnt 
think Mrs H fell within any of the categories of investor to whom they could be promoted. He 
also thought the investments were unsuitable. Although accepting they represented a 
relatively small proportion of the portfolio, he thought they carried significant risk of loss of 
capital. He didnt think Mrs H had the capacity to accept such loss bearing in mind the size of 
her pension, her savings and that she was unemployed at the time of the advice. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CMCs authority to submit Mrs Hs complaintPortal doesnt think the CMC representing Mrs H, is authorised to represent her. In the 
context of the complaint made on Mrs Hs behalf, I believe Portal could still have 
communicated with her directly.  
Our service has written to Portal explaining why we believe Mrs Hs CMC is able to 
represent complainants such as Mrs H  and that our service expects it to cooperate with us 
in respect of complaints brought by this CMC. This issue doesnt have any bearing on the 
merits of Mrs Hs complaint, so I dont intend to say anything further on this point. 
Suitability of the advice
There is limited information available from the time of the advice. Disappointingly Portal 
didnt provide its business file as requested by our service. But Mrs H has been able to 
provide a copy of the suitability report prepared by Portal. Information about the SIPP 
Mrs H was advised to transfer into, has been obtained from the SIPP provider. And 
information about the policies transferred was also obtained from that pension provider. 
So, Im satisfied that I have sufficient information to be able to consider the suitability of 
the recommendation made to Mrs H. 
In its response to the investigators view, Portal appears to accept that the bonds it 
recommended were non-mainstream investments. And it has argued that the proportion 
of those investments has and will continue to reduce as a proportion of the overall 
portfolio over time. And it thinks the risk will fully diminish once the funds mature in a few 
years time. 
Im not persuaded by the rationale for the original recommendation for investing into the 
bonds or Portals arguments in response to the investigators findings. Ill explain why.
As Portal appears to accept from its response to the investigators assessment, that the 
bond funds were non-mainstream investments, Im surprised that it hasnt commented on 
the restrictions that applied to promoting such investments. Also, from what Ive seen of 
Mrs Hs circumstances, I dont think she fell into the categories of investor who those 
investments could be promoted to. Considering the specialised nature of the funds, I 
think they fell within the restrictions set out in COBS 4.12.
In addition, I dont think the investment into the bonds was a suitable recommendation for 
Mrs H. I say this because the majority of bond funds were it seems, set up to raise funds 
for speculative property development.  Although the advertised rates of return were high 
on these bonds, I think given the nature of the investments these were very high-risk 
investments that carried a significant risk of capital loss. And that appears to have been 
proven to be the case having regard to the information provided by the SIPP provider. 
This indicates that they have defaulted on interest payment and are in severe financial 
difficulties. So, it seems unlikely to me that there will be any distributions from those 
funds.
Portal has argued that as they formed a relatively small percentage of Mrs Hs overall 
portfolio, they werent an unsuitable recommendation. And it thinks that as the rest of the 
liquid portfolio grows over time together with income generated over time; this will reduce 
the overall risk over time.
I dont agree with Portals argument. Whilst I accept that the percentage of the 
investment into the bonds was about 14% of the overall portfolio, I dont agree that 
means the bond investments was appropriate. I say this because looking at Mrs Hs 
financial circumstances at the time Portal assessed her financial position that was set out 
its suitability report, I dont think Mrs H had the capacity to accept the investment loss 
that might occur with investing in such investments. The pensions that were transferred appear to have been Mrs Hs sole pension provision 
other than her state pension. She was recorded as being unemployed at that time and 
only had £5,000 in savings. It seems evident to me that Mrs H was going to be heavily 
reliant on the income generated from the monies transferred. And as such, I dont think 
she had the capacity to accept the high risk of investment losses on even the relatively 
small percentage of the proceeds of transfer that were invested into the bonds. 
In addition, I dont think she had the requisite ATR for the bonds to be an appropriate 
investment for her. Portal assessed Mrs H as being a balanced investor. But she seems 
to me to be someone with limited investment experience. The pensions transferred had 
been invested in a single equity fund, and Mrs H appears to have had no investment 
experience outside of her pensions. And given her circumstances and apparent limited 
investment experience, objectively I dont believe she had the requisite ATR for the 
bonds to have been an appropriate recommendation and investment. 
Ive also thought about the advice to transfer from Mrs Hs pensions into the SIPP. From 
the information I do have, it seems the SIPP was marginally cheaper than the pensions 
that were transferred. So, the advice to transfer doesnt necessarily seem inappropriate 
from a charges perspective. 
Mrs H was invested in a global equity fund prior to the transfer into the SIPP. And the 
pension provider for the pensions that were transferred, said that the pensions didnt 
contain any guarantees. The equity fund within the SIPP appears to have been a global 
equity fund. So, it seems that Mrs H was invested in a similar type of fund after the 
transfer as she was prior her pensions being transferred.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs H as close as 
possible into the position she would probably have been in now if she had been given 
suitable advice.
I think Mrs H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs Hs circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should Portal do?
To compensate Mrs H fairly Portal should:
Compare the performance of Mrs Hs bond investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Portal should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mrs H's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Portal shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs H's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount directly to her. But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs H's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Taking into account her financial circumstances, Mrs H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. I 
think Mrs H would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, so the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Portal should pay Mrs H £200 for the distress and inconvenience she 
has been caused as a result of the advice it provided to her. Portal should 
provide the details of the calculation to Mrs H in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal considers it is required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs H how 
much it has taken off. It should also give Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
Bonds still existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot 
applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investments at the end date.
If, at the end date, any bond investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portal should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as above.
If Portal is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Portal may wish to require that Mrs H provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the bond investments would have been worth at the end date had they 
achieved a return in line with the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investments should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investments should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Portal may total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs H wanted growth with a small risk to her capital in respect of this element of her 
portfolio.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs Hs risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs H into the correct position. It does 
not mean that Mrs H would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond 
and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs H could have 
obtained from investments suited to her objective and attitude to risk.
Further information
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by 
searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to their 
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, 
clicking on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates / Deposit 
rates - Fixed rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by following this link: https://www.financialombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving- complaint/understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. 
Alternatively, just type compensation for investment on our website:
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is to uphold Mrs Hs complaint about Portal 
Financial Services LLP in part. If Mrs H accepts my decision, it needs to calculate and pay 
Mrs H compensation using the methodology Ive set out in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman