DRN-3077550
The complaint
Ms Bs complaint to us is twofold  shes unhappy with:
the advice she received from Greenfields Financial Management Limited to switch a 
defined contribution pension that she held with her employer (which Ill refer to as the 
occupational pension to a personal pension, and
the way her pension was managed.
What happened
The occupational pension was administered and provided by an insurer (who I will refer to as 
the insurer). Ms B stopped paying into it in August 2018, and she switched the underlying 
investments to cash in March 2019. She told us this was a temporary measure to protect the 
fund value while she took advice.
Later in March 2019 Ms B met with one of Greenfields advisers. In June 2019 the adviser 
recommended that Ms B switch the occupational pension to a personal pension. Ms B 
followed the advice and the pension was switched.
In January 2020 Ms B raised various concerns with Greenfields  including about the 
pension pot reducing and a charge on one of the underlying investment funds. Greenfieldsc 
replied to Ms Bs concerns, saying:
the pension pot had reduced by 0.46% in real terms over six months
the overall portfolio performed above the cautious benchmark for the most part
the charge was a buy in charge that had been introduced without its knowledge
the difference in performance between the pension and Ms Bs ISA (which she had used 
as a comparison) was mainly due to the buy in charge.
In June 2020 Greenfields provided Ms B with an update on her pension. It referred to the 
Covid-19 pandemic having a detrimental effect on markets and investments; and it explained 
how Ms Bs pension had fallen and risen in comparison to the cautious benchmark.
Ms B then formally complained to Greenfields about the advice she had received to switch 
her pension and about Greenfields ongoing management of the investments. Greenfields 
said all the advice it gave took account of Ms Bs attitude to risk and her desire to invest as 
cautiously as possible. It said Ms Bs investments fell in value due to the turmoil in the stock 
market  which it had no control over. Overall, Greenfields felt the advice it gave met Ms Bs 
requirements and her overall objectives.
Ms B later switched the personal pension (aside from an investment in a fund that had been 
suspended) back to her occupational pension. The remaining fund was switched back 
around nine months later once the suspension was lifted.
Our investigator concluded that Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt the 
recommendation to switch pensions was unsuitable because it involved higher charges, 
drawdown was available through the insurer, there were investment options within the 
occupational pension which could have met Ms Bs needs, and the underlying investments 
recommended were too risky for Ms Bs risk profile. Our investigator also briefly outlined 
concerns he had with the other areas of Ms Bs complaint; however he felt the redress he 
suggested would cover any losses Ms B suffered.
Although she made various comments on what had happened, Ms B accepted our 
investigators conclusion.
Greenfields didnt accept our investigators conclusion and made various comments. It 
accepted that it made an error in respect of one of the underlying investments  in that it 
should have identified the buy in charge and told Ms B about it before recommending the 
investment. It therefore offered Ms B £8,000 compensation in settlement of this part of the 
complainant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the responses to our investigators conclusion and Ive taken them into account in 
reaching my decision. However, Ive only commented on the points that I think are relevant 
to the case and/or the decision Ive reached.
Documentation from 2019
At the initial meeting a Fact Find document was completed. This recorded basic information 
about Ms Bs finances and, of relevance here, that:
her main priority was providing for dependants in the event of her death
her attitude to risk and capacity for loss of her pension was very low. 
The adviser also made some notes of the meeting, notably:
Mrs B would like to retire by 66 (which at the time was four years away)
her attitude to risk was 2 out of 10 and following discussion it was agreed this was best
she had spoken to other advisers who had advised her to take the tax free cash from her 
pension to avoid the lifetime allowance, and to move her pension to get better 
performance
she wasn't worried about chasing high performance and her sole goal was protecting her 
pension with no unnecessary risks.
Greenfields received information from the insurer about the occupational pension. This 
included:
Ms B could invest in three lifestyle strategies (drawdown, annuity and cash) where funds 
were automatically moved to lower risk investments as she approached retirement, or in 
ten other investment funds (with risk/reward ratings ranging from 1 (low) to 4 (high)), and
the ongoing charge for the cash fund was an annual fee of 0.09%.
On 7 June the adviser emailed Ms B to outline what it felt the strategy should be. He said 
she should transfer the occupational pension to another more suitable provider, noted that 
the insurers service was abysmal, and that another provider would provide greater flexibility 
and customer service that far better suited her needs.On 18 June 2019 the adviser produced a report outlining his formal recommendation. The 
report said:
Ms B was concerned about the poor performance, lack of fund choice and the flexibility 
of taking benefits from the occupational pension
there were four potential options:
oleave the occupational pension untouched
oremain in occupational pension but switch investment funds
oswitch all schemes into an existing arrangement; or
oset up a new pension plan to move the existing arrangements into
returns on the occupational pension are likely to be poor because of low interest rates, 
which isnt suitable as a long term investment as its unlikely to keep pace with inflation
the occupational pension had an extremely limited choice of funds
there were a number of ways Ms B could use her occupational pension  including 
income drawdown (although it was noted this option wasnt available under the existing 
scheme, so would require a transfer to an alternative income drawdown arrangement 
with the insurer).
Ultimately, the adviser recommended that Ms B switch her pension because:
the new plan allowed her to tailor income drawdown benefits around her changing needs 
and circumstances
the new plan allowed her to take advantage of pension freedom legislation
there was a wider range of funds, which allowed Greenfields to select more suitable 
funds and might provide greater returns
there was greater flexibility and control in terms of implementation, management and 
monitoring of her pension assets.
The report went on to say that because of the ongoing charges Ms B would likely end up 
with a greater pension fund if she stayed in the occupational pension. However, the adviser 
felt the shortfall could be overcome given the recommended investment strategy.
Attitude to risk
Greenfields emailed Ms B on 13 June 2019 to query her attitude to risk as the 2 out of 10 
rating contrasted with what shed said about previously scoring 2 out of 5 for her 
occupational pension, and it was concerned about the lack of potential returns a 2 out of 10 
rating would provide. It recommended 3 out of 10, which it said would provide the 
opportunity for greater growth. Ms B replied the same day saying that she didnt feel 
equipped to make a decision until shed spoken to the adviser as she didnt know what was 
usual in her case. Greenfields has told me that Ms B spoke with the adviser a short time 
later and confirmed that she wished to proceed with a 3 out of 10 rating. 
I dont think whether Ms Bs attitude to risk was 2 out of 10 or 3 out of 10 ultimately affects 
the outcome of this complaint. However, theres been some discussion about whether Ms B 
was pressured into increasing the rating, so Ive provided my comments for completeness.
Given that Ms Bs stated objective was to protect her pension (as opposed to chasing 
growth), its not entirely clear to me why Greenfields was particularly concerned about the 
lack of potential returns a 2 out of 10 rating would provide. Nevertheless, I dont think the 
email pressured Ms B into a 3 out of 10 rating. However, Greenfields did clearly recommend 
that she adopt a 3 out of 10 rating. And the email also heavily implied, in my opinion, that 
this was a good idea  evidenced by it highlighting the disadvantage of a 2 out of 10 rating and the advantage of a 3 out of 10; without highlighting any advantage of a 2 out of 10 rating 
or disadvantage of a 3 out of 10 rating.
I cant comment on the later phone call as Greenfields hasnt been able to provide me with a 
recording of it. But if the call went along the lines of the email  and given the wording of the 
email theres no reason for me to think that it didnt  then I can understand why Ms B might 
have felt the need to follow the advice given and agree to the increase.
Suitability
In 2008 the regulator did a thematic review of advice given to consumers to switch pensions 
and it later produced a report outlining its findings. In the report the regulator said that advice 
was unsuitable when a consumer switched into:
a pension where extra costs were incurred without good reason  including cases where 
the reason for the switch was
oinvestment flexibility, when this was unlikely to be used
ofund performance, when there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be 
better; or
oflexibility of a drawdown option, but there was no evidence that this option was 
needed
a pension that didnt match the consumers attitude to risk and personal circumstances
In deciding complaints like this I look at the same issues identified by the regulator during the 
review. Overall, I need to be satisfied that the switch was suitable for Ms B at the time it was 
recommended.
In respect of costs (including the advisers fee for the advice and ongoing management), its 
not in dispute here that the charges on the new pension were higher than the existing one. 
That doesnt necessarily make the advice unsuitable. But as the regulator said, there needs 
to be a good reason for the switch. So the increased charges need to be weighed up against 
any other benefits that would be gained and lost in the switch.
I think its particularly important in this case that there was only a short period  four years or 
so  between the advice and when Ms B intended to retire. I say this for two reasons: (1) 
there was limited time for growth to offset the increased charges and be sufficient enough to 
make the switch worthwhile  after all, theres no real point in switching just to stand still; and 
(2) its usual, and reasonable, so close to retirement for a consumer to be reducing their 
exposure to risk in order to protect their investment; and that reduction reduces the potential 
for growth.
Fund performance
As Ive said above, advice to switch is unsuitable where the reason for the switch was fund 
performance when theres no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better. The adviser 
didnt specifically state that fund performance was a reason given for switching, but I think 
its reasonable to assume that it was one of the underlying reasons sitting behind the specific 
reasons.
Although Ms B has confirmed it was only a temporary arrangement, her funds remaining as 
cash wasnt viable over the long term as the growth on them was unlikely to be sufficient to 
overcome the effects of inflation  meaning that in real terms she was losing money. But that 
doesnt mean it was suitable to switch pensions in order to move the funds from cash  as 
discussed below, there were funds within the occupational scheme that Ms B could have 
moved the into.The recommendation report said poor performance was one of Ms Bs concerns. But, there 
is nothing to this effect in the Fact Find or the advisers notes (where I would expect it to be). 
Greenfields has nevertheless told me it was a concern that Ms B raised and that it was 
discussed with the adviser. It also said Ms B didnt raise any objection to the description of 
her concerns as set out in the report. What I dont know however is whether this really was a 
concern for Ms B, or if it was, whether it was only a concern while the funds were in cash.
In any event, I havent seen anything to show that the performance of the new scheme was 
likely to be better than the performance of the occupational pension if shed taken the option 
of remaining in occupational pension but switching investment funds. I cant therefore 
conclude that the advice to switch was suitable due to the respective fund performances.
Wider range of funds 
This is often given as a reason for switching pensions. But what I look at is whether the 
consumer really needed the range of funds given their objectives and existing arrangements.
The recommendation report said lack of fund choice was one of Ms Bs concerns. As above, 
there was nothing to this effect in the Fact Find or the advisers notes; and Greenfields told 
me it was a concern that Ms B raised and it was discussed with the adviser. Similar to the 
above point, I dont know whether this really was a concern for Ms B or whether the adviser 
made it a concern by putting thoughts into her mind.
Having weighed everything up, as Ms Bs goal wasnt to chase growth Im not persuaded 
that having a wide range of funds was particularly important to her. In my view, while they 
were limited, there were sufficient options for Ms B in her occupational pension that could 
have met her needs, whilst maintaining a sufficient degree of diversification in the investment 
to reduce the risk.
Greenfields mentioned that investing in a wide range of funds gave Ms B greater protection 
with the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in case an investment failed. 
The limit for FSCS compensation is £85,000 so if Ms B needed to claim more than that she 
stood to lose anything over and above £85,000. Although Ms B had a low attitude to risk, Im 
not persuaded that FSCS protection would have been important to her and her overall 
decision making. I say this because, although I accept the future can never be predicted, I 
think its likely this is a risk she would have been prepared to take given who the insurer is. 
And I think this is shown by the fact that shes since moved her pension back to the 
occupational pension.
Drawdown benefits 
Drawdown wasnt possible with Ms Bs occupational pension so she would have needed to 
switch to another arrangement with the insurer. But that didnt necessarily need to be done 
there and then  she could have waited until she decided to take benefits eg when she 
turned 66.
As part of his reasoning for recommending the switch the adviser referred to the drawdown 
income being able to be tailored to Ms Bs changing needs and circumstances  examples of 
which Greenfields said were touched upon in the advisers notes ie her needing funds in the 
future to help with her daughters university fees and/or her buying a property, and for home 
improvements. So it said Ms B wanted the option of taking flexible partial drawdown from her 
pension when needed, potentially at relatively short notice. Greenfields said flexible partial 
drawdown was available from the insurer, but there were significant issues with their customer service, flexibility and responsiveness  which meant staying with the insurer 
wasnt a viable option.
Its clear that Ms B could have transferred her pension fund to a drawdown arrangement with 
the insurer. And as I understand it, there was no material difference between the drawdown 
available from the insurer and the drawdown available under the new arrangement. I cant 
see that any cost comparison was done or that any consideration was given to Ms B 
delaying any transfer to allow for a drawdown until she actually wished to retire.
The insurers customer service appears to me to be the main reasoning put forward under 
this heading for supporting the recommendation to switch. However, I cant see anywhere 
that Ms B mentioned this as one of her concerns. In fact, shes told me that in her 
experience the service provided by the insurer was better than what she experienced with 
the new provider.
Im not therefore persuaded its been sufficiently shown that this was a valid reason to switch 
pensions.
Pension freedom 
I havent seen any analysis in the recommendation report which details the difference in 
pension freedom legislation options Ms B would have had if shed remained with her 
occupational pension compared to switching to an alternative arrangement with the new 
provider. Greenfields has confirmed to me that the pension freedoms apply to all personal 
pensions; however, it said that taking advantage of them in Ms B's circumstances would 
have been difficult had she remained with the insurer due to the customer service issues.
Ive already commented on those issues above so Im not going to repeat what I said  
suffice to say that for the same reasons Im not persuaded its been sufficiently shown that 
the pension freedom options were a valid reason to switch pensions.
Underlying investments
Apart from the costs v benefits points Ive outlined above, theres also the issue over 
whether the underlying investments that were recommended were in line with Ms Bs attitude 
to risk and capacity for loss.
The overall portfolio of a low risk consumers investment isnt automatically unsuitable just 
because some of the investment might be in a high risk fund. The overall risk profile of the 
portfolio needs to be taken into consideration. Im aware that after the switch and as part of 
its ongoing management of Ms Bs pension Greenfields made various recommendations to 
move certain investments to other funds  which may have slightly changed the overall risk 
profile. But in deciding whether the recommendation to switch was suitable Im concerned 
with the position in June 2019. 
Ms Bs funds were initially split across 15 separate investments, which effectively meant 
25% of the funds were invested in property, 15% in cash, 35% in equities, and 25% in 
bonds. Cash and bonds in my opinion tend to be low risk as theyre fairly safe and its 
generally relatively easy for a consumer to get their money out quickly. Equities and property 
tend to be riskier, because theyre subject to market fluctuations (which can be significant) 
and because with property its sometimes difficult for consumers to get their money out 
quickly.
Ive commented above on Ms Bs attitude to risk but irrespective of how it was decided or 
whether it was 2 out of 10 or 3 out of 10, I think its clear that Ms B was a very cautious investor. I say this because its clear she had a low appetite for risk  which is supported by 
the advisers notes from the time saying that her goal was protecting her pension with no 
unnecessary risks. That goal doesnt strike me as surprising or unusual given how close she 
was to her planned retirement. Its also my understanding that this pension is Ms Bs main 
source of income in retirement. So, while the pension pot was quite large, she had quite a 
low capacity for losing it (or significant chunks of it) given her retirement income needs.
In respect of the overall risk profile Greenfields has said it constructs a portfolio using a 
financial planning tool and that Ms Bs investments were balanced out to a 3 out of 10 rating 
overall. However, whilst Ive noted what Greenfields has said, I agree with our investigator in 
that having 60% of the investment tied up in equities and property is too high for a very 
cautious investor like Ms B  especially so close to retirement. I therefore conclude that the 
new pension didnt match Ms Bs attitude to risk or circumstances.
Summary
I conclude that the advice Ms B received to switch her pension was unsuitable. I say this due 
to a combination of:
there being no evidence the performance of the new scheme would have likely been 
sufficiently better than the occupational pension (assuming Ms B moved the investment 
away from cash) to offset the increased costs
there was sufficient diversity of funds available to Ms B in the occupational pension to 
meet her goal of protecting her capital without chasing growth
the drawdown and pension freedom options available to Ms B through the insurer and 
the new scheme were similar, and the insurers customer service wasnt sufficient 
enough reason to over-ride the increase costs
the overall profile of Ms Bs recommended investment was too risky for her.
Compensation
Our investigator recommended that Greenfields pay Ms B £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Neither party specifically commented on this further, but 
I confirm my agreement with our investigators conclusion. The redress Ive outlined below is 
designed to compensation Ms B for any losses she might have suffered; but I think £300 is 
fair for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered after she realised that the advice she 
received was unsuitable.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Ms B as close as possible to the position she would probably now be in if 
shed been given suitable advice. I think she would have invested differently, but its not 
possible to say precisely what she would have done. However, Im satisfied that what Ive 
set out below is fair and reasonable given Ms B's circumstances and objectives when she 
invested.
To compensate Ms B fairly Greenfields should:
Compare the performance of her investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below.If there is a loss, pay into Ms B's pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If compensation is unable to be paid into Ms Bs pension plan, the amount should be 
paid direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Ms B's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement 
age. For example, if she is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if she would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Pay Ms B £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable 
advice
Provide the details of the calculation to Ms B in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Greenfields considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Ms B how 
much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Interest
The 
recommended 
personal 
pensionTransferred 
back to the 
occupational 
pensionFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for 
the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed bondsDate of switch 
to the 
recommended 
pensionDate of 
switch back 
to the 
occupational 
pension8% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
The actual value means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
The fair value is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Greenfields 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
I think Ms B wanted some capital growth with a small risk to her capital
the average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds; its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return
I consider that Ms B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives; so, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put her into that position. It doesnt mean that Ms B would have 
invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return she could have obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk 
attitude
the additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money since 
the end date.
Greenfields doesnt think this redress is fair, for three reasons. The first is that part of Ms Bs 
argument, and part of why Ive concluded that the advice was unsuitable, is that she was a 
very low risk investor. So it feels its inappropriate to use the FTSE index for 50% of the 
benchmark performance as this reflects a level of investment performance that could only 
have been achieved by taking a higher risk approach.
I understand the point Greenfields makes as it could appear illogical on the one hand to say 
that an investment of 60% in equities and property is too high for Ms Bs risk profile, but on 
the other hand conclude that the appropriate benchmark for calculating redress is 50% in the 
FTSE index. However, while its clear that Ms B wanted to protect her capital at the expense 
of chasing growth, I dont think that means she didnt want the fund to grow  as no growth 
would mean she effectively lost money in real terms. So I think she wanted to achieve some 
growth. And as explained above, I think the 50/50 split recognises the reasonable return an 
investor might achieve with without risk to some of their capital and with some risk to the 
remainder.
The second reason is that the calculations dont take account of the fact that, in Greenfields 
view, Ms B was responsible for some of her losses as she stopped following its 
recommendations in mid-2020. Greenfields argues that had she continued to follow its 
advice, her investment would have made a substantial recovery since mid-2020 and would 
have left her better off than had she not switched back to the occupational pension. So it 
thinks the calculation should be based on the position Ms B would have been in had she 
continued to follow the advice rather than the actual position when she switched back to the 
occupational pension.
I again understand the point Greenfields makes, but I dont think this argument has any 
merit. It would be something I would be prepared to consider if I felt Ms Bs actions were 
totally unreasonable, and they led to her suffering more losses than she otherwise would 
have. However, Im not persuaded that Ms B acted unreasonably in switching back to the 
occupational pension. Shed lost confidence in Greenfields  partly because she felt the 
original advice was unsuitable. And given that Ive found in her favour on that point, its 
difficult to then conclude it was unreasonable for her to move her pension away from 
Greenfields. Its also the case that theres no evidence to show that Ms Bs losses are 
greater due to her switching back  they of course might be, but they might not be.The final reason was that if I wasnt persuaded by the second reason the proposed end date 
for the calculation is unfair and unreasonable as Greenfields hasnt acted for Ms B since 
21 July 2020  so it hasnt been able to provide advice or take any steps for the last year or 
so. For the purposes of the calculation Ms Bs potential loss (if there is one) has to be 
crystallised at some point; and Im satisfied that the end date Ive set is fair. The majority of 
the pension was switched back on 20 August 2020, so Im not persuaded there were any 
undue delays in the process.
Other areas of complaint
The other issues Ms B raised concerned Greenfields ongoing management of her 
investments, it not telling her about the buy in charge on one of the underlying investments, 
and one of the underlying investments being suspended.
In respect of the ongoing management, Greenfields has suggested that this is essentially a 
complaint about the performance of the investments  and it pointed to one of our rules 
which allows me to dismiss a complaint without considering its merits if I consider it to be a 
complaint about investment performance. This isnt an option available to me under this 
complaint because the rule Greenfields cites only applies to complaints referred to us prior to 
9 July 2015.
The redress Ive proposed above is designed to put Ms B as close as possible to the position 
she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice in the first place about 
switching pensions. So, in effect, any loss she might have suffered due to these other issues 
will automatically be compensated for in the calculations. I havent therefore investigated or 
judged these issues as any conclusion I reach wont affect the overall outcome of the 
complaint, the proposed redress or the compensation payable to Ms B.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Greenfields Financial Management Limited to pay Ms B 
compensation as outlined in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
Paul Daniel 
Ombudsman
