DRN-3090711
The complaint
Mr G complains about charges applied to his account by HBL Bank UK Limited (HBL).   
What happened
Mr G held two accounts with HBLs predecessor, one in USD and one in GBP. Mr G stopped 
using his accounts in 2001 leaving modest balances in each. The USD account had $536 
saved.
In 2004 HBL closed the GBP account and converted the remaining balance to USD. The 
balance was paid into the USD account. 
From December 2002 HBL applied an annual $100 hold mail charge to Mr Gs account. 
The balance was reduced each year until only $33 remained. HBL charged a $33 closing fee 
in 2008 and closed Mr Gs account. 
Last year Mr G got in touch with HBL and obtained statements for his accounts. Mr G 
queried the charges applied to his USD account. HBL didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint and 
didnt agree to refund the charges applied. 
Mr G referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. In August 
2021 the investigator sent Mr G and HBL findings explaining why they were upholding the 
complaint. Despite requests for extensions, HBL hasnt responded to the investigators 
findings. As a result, Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background to this complaint as the investigator 
has done so in detail. Ive noted the key events as I see them. 
Mr G has confirmed his PO Box was in operation until 2019 and that he wouldnt have 
agreed to pay a $100 annual no mail charge when he only had around $500 in the account. I 
think thats a reasonable point. I also note that HBL has been unable to provide copies of the 
tariff of charges applicable at the time. 
On balance, Im satisfied HBL has unfairly applied charges to Mr Gs account. As a result, I 
can see Mr Gs account balance (including the funds transferred from his GBP account) was 
depleted by charges applied. I agree the charges should be refunded to Mr G. 
Our investigator didnt award interest and I agree with that approach. The accounts in 
question were non interest bearing and Mr G didnt look to withdraw his funds until late last 
year. As no interest was due against the funds Mr G held in his accounts, Im not telling HBL 
to pay interest against the refund. 
I appreciate HBL said it wanted to respond and asked for several extensions. But we have to 
be fair to both parties and its not reasonable to leave a case outstanding indefinitely. The 
investigators findings were issued two months ago and Im satisfied HBL has been given a 
fair opportunity to respond. Im satisfied I can reach a fair outcome based on the available 
evidence, so Im going to proceed and issue my decision. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HBL Bank UK Limited to pay Mr G 
$633.70.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman