DRN-2047437
The complaint
Mr D, through his claims management company (CMC), has complained about the suitability 
of a whole of life policy that was sold to him by a business which is now the responsibility of 
Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix).
What happened
Mr D took out the policy in 1989. Very little information from the time of the sale had been 
provided by either party but what we do know is that in 1989 Mr D was single and had no 
depends. An extract of the fact find document has been provided by Phoenix which recorded 
that Mr D didnt want to discuss his financial position and that he just wanted to take out this 
policy.
The only other information we have is that in 1994 Mr D met with Phoenix again and at this 
point he was married with children. It would appear that at this time he took out another 
whole of life policy which also contained critical illness cover.
The CMC has stated that as Mr D was single with no dependants in 1989 he had no need for 
the first whole of life policy he was sold.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it should be upheld in part. 
Given Mr Ds personal situation in 1989 he saw no reason why the policy was of use to him 
at that point in time. However, he did feel that by 1994 the policy was useful as his personal 
circumstances had changed so someone could benefit the policy. He therefore suggested 
that Phoenix refund the premium Mr D had paid for the policy from the point of sale until it 
became useful for him - between 1989 and 1994.
The CMC didnt agree with the assessment and explained that when Mr D and his wife took 
out the further protection in 1994 there was no reason for the 1989 policy to remain in place.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be partially upheld.
Resolving this complaint has been made particularly difficult by there being very little 
information about the sale of the policy in 1989.
But the little information I do have leads me to conclude that the whole of life policy was 
unnecessary for Mr D in 1989. This type of policy is taken to protect whoever the policy 
holder leaves behind in the even of death. In this complaint in 1989 Mr D didnt have anyone 
to leave behind had he died as he was single and had no dependants so I see no reason 
why the whole of life policy would have been of use to him. I appreciate there is a record 
which seems to state that he wanted to take this policy, but I cant be certain that the policy 
was explained in full to him because if it had been, I am sure Mr D would have decided this 
wasnt of use to him at that point in time.
However, as explained above in 1994 Mr D met with Phoenix again and was sold another 
reviewable whole of life and critical illness policy. At this point he was married and had 
children. Phoenix has confirmed that following a separate complaint about the policy sold in 
1994 it recognised Mr D didnt have any need for the additional life cover. So it offered Mr D 
a refund of the premiums paid for the 1994 policy less the cost of critical illness. This was 
accepted by Mr D and the policy was cancelled.
This information is key in me deciding this complaint. It is correct to say that Mr D didnt need 
the 1989 whole of life policy due to him being single with no dependents.  But it would 
appear that in 1994 he did have the need for life cover. But as the 1989 policy was still in 
place Phoenix is right in deeming the life cover in the 1994 policy as unsuitable because life 
cover was already in place.
While the 1989 policy was unsuitable when it was sold to Mr D it became useful to him in 
1994 when he approached Phoenix again and he was married with children. And so whilst 
this is an unusual form of redress it would be wrong for me to ignore the effect of Mr Ds 
change in personal circumstances had upon the suitability of the 1989 policy.
Therefore, to recognise this and the unsuitable sale of the 1989 policy, until Mr D met with 
Phoenix again in 1994 I think a refund of the premiums he paid between 1989 and 1994 
should be returned, because whilst he didnt need the policy in 1989 once he had 
dependants the policy became of use to him.
Putting things right
 Phoenix Life Limited should put Mr D into the position he would have been in had he not 
taken the policy out in 1989 until the point the policy became of use to him and therefore 
suitable. Therefore, phoenix must:
Refund the premiums Mr D paid to the policy from inception in 1989 until November 
1994 when he took out the second whole of life policy.
Interest of 8% simple per annum must be added to each refunded premium from the 
date each was paid to the date of settlement.
If any of the premiums were paid before 1 April 1993, simple interest should be 
calculated at the rate of 15% per year from the date each refunded premium was 
paid up to an including 31 March 1993.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Phoenix Life Limited must pay 
redress to Mr D as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman