DRN-2889209
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim under 
her travel insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mrs K had a silver single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV. She bought the 
policy online on 6 March 2020 to cover a trip to Spain between 17 and 21 March 2020. 
Mrs K cancelled her trip on 13 March 2020 as The Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
(FCO) advised against all but essential travel to several regions of Spain. And it advised 
against all but essential international travel due to Covid-19 from 17 March 2020.
Mrs Ks trip was a linked travel arrangement. She has had a refund of her flight costs but not 
her accommodation. 
Mrs K made a claim for cancellation but URV declined it on the basis that her circumstances 
werent covered and the insurance had specific reasons in which it provides cover for the 
cancellation of a trip. Unhappy with its response, Mrs K referred her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think it was fair or reasonable for URV 
to decline Mrs Ks claim. URV disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
There are products which do carry the cover, the customer chose a cheaper policy 
and had 14 days to understand what it would cover.
The product says exactly what it provides cover for and doesnt include the pandemic 
event or anything like it. 
There is nothing confusing about the short list confirming what is covered.
The exclusion highlighted wasnt meant for the unprecedented scenario. 
It is completely irrelevant whether they would have had cover on the trip as there is 
no evidence the complainants ever intended to travel or would have been able to 
anyway.
Mrs K says the policy is misleading and says its only when you read the small print that it 
actually doesnt cover anything.
URV has also said the policy was purchased when Covid-19 was a known event and Mrs K 
was aware that she was looking at a cancellation situation. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 20 May 2021. Ill repeat my provisional findings here: 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for Business say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to;
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
customer; and
handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in 
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed. 
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) which gives customers an at a glance summary of 
their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover, including the main risks 
insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, the geographical scope and summary of 
excluded risks.
Relevant regulatory guidance, the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors 
for the Fair Treatment of Customers says firms should consider the impact of their actions  
or inactions - on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided. 
Ive looked at the documents relevant to Mrs Ks policy, namely the terms and conditions and 
the IPID. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ks policy, on the page called About this policy set out 
general Criteria for purchase. This says:
This insurance will only be valid if, at the time you bought the policy, everyone 
named on the insurance scheduleAre not travelling to an area that is classified as 
Advise against all travel or Advise against all but essential travel by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office at the time of your departure.
This criteria applies to all sections of the policy and comes before the more detailed and 
specific exclusions and inclusions of each section of cover.
Page 2 of the IPID, under the heading Where am I covered says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.
I will call this the FCO exclusion.
Mrs K was due to depart on 17 March when the FCO was advising against all but essential 
travel. If Mrs K continued with her holiday plans, her policy would have been invalidated and 
she would have had no cover under her policy. So if she had travelled, the policy would have 
been of no use to her. 
Page 7 of the terms and conditions sets out that cover is provided for cancellation in the 
following circumstances:you, a travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the person 
you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and alternative 
accommodation is not available;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces had your leave orders 
cancelled. 
Mrs K cancelled her trip due to FCO advice  this isnt one of the listed insured events for 
which cancellation cover is provided. In effect, this meant she had no cover if she did travel 
but also no cover if she cancelled her trip due to FCO advice (the FCO exclusion). 
I need to consider what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs Ks 
complaint. In doing so, Ive had regard to the industry rules and guidance outlined above, as 
well as to the relevant law (including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 
2015). 
Having done so, I dont think its fair or reasonable in the circumstances for Mrs K to have no 
cover when she had to cancel her holiday due to a change in FCO advice after shed bought 
her policy. 
Ive taken into account all the arguments URV has made about Mrs Ks policy. URV has said 
Mrs K purchased the policy when Covid-19 was a known event in the media. But I would 
have expected URV to have made this clear in the sales process if that was the case. 
Mrs K purchased silver cover. URV says cover under a similarly branded policy may have 
been available but URV has provided no evidence to show Mrs K would have been able to 
buy such a policy which covered cancellation in the circumstances. 
I accept that the FCO exclusion might not have been intended for the unprecedented Covid-
19 scenario and I understand Mrs K may never have intended to, or indeed have been able 
to travel abroad because of FCO advice in place at the time of her intended departure. I also 
note there was a 14-day cooling off period for Mrs K to consider the cover provided under 
the policy after shed bought it. 
However, I dont think the exclusion for cancellation claims arising from the FCO advising 
against travel was made clear to Mrs K. And I dont think the implications of this were made 
clear either. I think this left Mrs K in an unfair position. 
I say this because the FCO exclusion set out in the Criteria for purchase section doesnt 
say that no cover is provided for cancellation of a holiday in the event of FCO advice 
changing between the date the policy was purchased and the policyholders date of 
departure. 
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the 
policy in a way thats easy to understand. However, I dont think the FCO exclusion is 
prominent in the IPID, and cancellation claims due to FCO advice against all but essential travel arent included in the What is not insured section of the IPID. The IPID only contains 
the general exclusion that policyholders wont be covered if they travel against FCO advice. 
Page 1 of the policy terms and conditions contain a summary of whats covered under the 
policy under the heading This is what you get. Amongst other things, this says that the 
policyholder may claim up to £3,000 if they are unable to go on their trip. Similar information 
is contained in the IPID.
The terms and conditions, also at page 1, state at the top pf the page that the summary table 
is designed to show you what cover may be available under this insurance and is subject to 
the terms, conditions and exclusions detailed in the policy. The IPID also refers the 
consumer to their policy documentation for the full terms and conditions of the contract. 
So Mrs K would need to go further into the detail of the policy wording to know whether she 
could claim if she had to cancel her trip because of changes to FCO travel guidance after 
shed bought the policy. 
Page 7 of the policy documentation sets out the cover available if Mrs K is unable to go on 
her trip. But claims arising from a change in FCO advice arent listed as a specific exclusion. 
Overall, I dont think the fact that theres no cover under this policy for cancellation claims in 
the event of FCO advice changing is clearly brought to the consumers attention. 
I dont think its fair or reasonable to expect customers to be required to read the terms and 
conditions thoroughly from beginning to end in order to understand important issues 
regarding what is and isnt covered. I think a customer would be entitled to expect a 
restriction like the exclusion of cover for cancellation claims relating to a change in FCO 
advice to be more prominent, for example, to be in the IPID. 
I also think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from a change in FCO 
advice isnt transparent enough. The section of the policy setting out what will be covered if 
the customer is unable to travel, on page 7, is in plain English. But, the FCO exclusion set 
out in the Criteria for purchase section of cover isnt presented in the same place. So, I 
dont think it would be obvious to a policyholder that they would have no cover whatsoever 
under the policy if FCO advice changed in respect of their destination after they purchased 
their policy. Even with a cooling-off period, a consumer might not be able to easily 
understand the full effect of the policy. The way the cancellation section of cover and the 
FCO exclusion under Criteria for purchase are presented separately, means their combined 
effect isnt clear. 
In the circumstances, I think this is unfair and results in a significant imbalance between Mrs 
K and URV. Mrs K was left without any cover at all when the FCO advice changed and this 
shifted the rights and obligations under the contract significantly in URVs favour. Im not 
persuaded Mrs K would have freely agreed to a policy that left her without any cover in these 
circumstances if she had realised that was how the policy would operate. 
So, overall, I think the way the information about the cover available under this policy is 
presented isnt fair, and URV isnt acting in the best interests of its customer when 
presenting the information in this way. 
Therefore, I think the fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances is for URV to treat 
Mrs Ks claim as covered under the cancellation section of her policy, and to assess the 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K has responded to my provisional findings and has said that she is shocked and 
disappointed with URV. URV hasnt responded to my provisional findings, which I adopt as 
part of this final decision. As neither side has disagreed, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.     
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think this complaint should be upheld and direct Union 
Reiseversicherung AG to treat Mrs Ks claim as covered under the cancellation section of 
her policy, and to assess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman