DRN-1414177
The complaint
Mr L complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) didnt uphold a 
chargeback request he made to them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. I know that will disappoint Mr L so please let me 
explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action. Initially AESEL credited the funds back 
to Mr L but when evidence was received that the merchant was prepared to offer a full 
refund the chargeback was rejected as it was clear the goods could be returned, and the full 
value recovered.
Ive seen text messages from the merchant that confirm they were prepared to offer a full 
refund and so I dont think it would be fair to suggest AESEL didnt handle the chargeback 
request fairly. 
Mr L is also upset because he says AESEL told him he could keep the car and get his 
money back. He says he therefore paid for several repairs to the vehicle that hed lose out 
on if he had to return it.
Im not persuaded that AESEL did tell Mr L that he could keep the car. In a call on 10 June 
the advisor said if he wasnt told he needed to (return the car) then he probably doesnt need 
to. I dont think that was clear advice and I think by that time Mr L would have been likely to 
be aware the merchant wanted the car back if they were to refund his money. And, 
regardless, by that time Mr L had already had the roof bars and parking sensors fitted to his 
car and hed fixed the fuses: hed incurred those expenses the previous month. So, I dont 
think its likely that what AESELs agent had told him encouraged him to incur the costs.
And, overall, I dont think AESEL need to take any further action.
I note that Mr L has raised with us several other issues about the quality of the car. Those 
issues werent the subject of his chargeback complaint with AESEL and will need, in the first 
instance, to be addressed with the merchant.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman