DRN-1213156
 
The complaint
Mr P complains about what happened when he asked The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to 
recall a payment he had made. He said RBS didnt keep its promises about getting the 
money back. And part of the problem was RBS sent the money too soon.
What happened
Mr P made an international transfer from his RBS account, for £475.52. He then cancelled 
the transfer by phone the same morning. But he said it was still made, and RBS hadnt 
fulfilled its promises to get the money back for him within five days.
Mr P also said hed paid for a transfer that was supposed to take two to four working days. 
But RBS had sent the money the same day instead.  
He wanted RBS to pay him back the missing money, and compensate him for the time hed 
spent trying to get the money back. 
RBS said it had only told Mr P it could try to get his money back. And it had tried, but the 
person who received the money wouldnt return it. It usually charges a fee to attempt to 
recover a payment like this, but it hadnt in this case. RBS said there was nothing more it 
could do to return this money to Mr P. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She thought that the agents Mr 
P spoke to had explained that there was no guarantee of when or if his money could be 
recalled. She said shed checked, and the money was already with the recipient when Mr P 
asked for it back. RBS cant make someone pay the money back in those circumstances. 
Our investigator also said it wasnt a mistake for RBS to make the payment much faster than 
the maximum allowed time for it to be made. She thought RBS had done all it could. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said that the transfer was a contract, both parties had obligations. Hed 
agreed to transfer money, and pay the fee. RBS had agreed to transfer the money within two 
to four working days. Mr P said that by transferring the money within two to four hours, RBS 
had broken the contract. Mr P said if hed wanted the money to be there faster, he wouldve 
paid more for the faster service. And RBS hadnt told him that it might not be able to get the 
money back. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said the timescale Mr P was given was the 
latest he could expect the money to arrive. She didnt think RBS had done anything wrong 
by processing the payment faster. And RBS had tried to get Mr Ps money back. 
Mr P still thought the money shouldnt have arrived with the recipient until the next day at the 
earliest. He said RBS was in breach of contract, and our service was accepting this. 
Because Mr P didnt agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call that Mr P made to ask RBS to recover his money. He was told that 
this was being done on a best endeavours basis. Whilst I think this could have been 
explained more clearly to Mr P, I think that RBS did tell him it was just going to do its best to 
get the money back. It didnt offer him any reassurances about this.
Mr P thought RBS had committed to returning the money within five days. At the end of the 
call Mr P had, the call handler said that she couldnt give a timescale, but suggested Mr P 
should call back within five days if he hadnt received the money. So I dont think RBS did 
give a timescale for money to be returned.
Mr P says the reason all this went wrong is because RBS sent the money faster than it 
should. There are two options, and hed chosen the slower option. So he thought that RBS 
had breached its contract with him by sending the money faster. 
I think that all the two options for payments do is provide different deadlines for payments to 
be received. There are just different time limits for payments to get where theyre going. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest to me that RBS wouldnt, or shouldnt, attempt to make an 
international payment straight away, when a customer asks it to. I think thats true whichever 
service Mr P chose. And Mr P hasnt suggested he asked RBS to delay sending this money. 
So I think RBS acted reasonably and fairly when it sent Mr Ps money to the overseas 
recipient right away.
I can see that RBS asked the recipient bank to pay the money back, but it hasnt been able 
to get this money back for Mr P. The recipient wont release it. In those circumstances, I 
think RBS has done all it can to try to help Mr P. I dont think it has to do any more. 
I know that Mr P will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman