DRN-3616843
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain about the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has handled
their travel insurance claim. 
What happened
In 2019, Mr and Mrs E booked a multi destination trip abroad, departing the UK on 2 March
2020 and returning on 8 April 2020. They were also travelling with their child. This trip also
included the hire of a motorhome for nine days, from 24 March 2020 with the intention of
using this to travel across one of the countries visited. In January 2020, they purchased a
single trip travel insurance policy, insured through URV, to cover this trip.
Mr and Mrs E departed the UK as planned. On 11 March 2020, the World Health
Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 as a pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the UKs
Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel abroad due to the
Covid-19 pandemic. And then subsequently on 23 March 2020, the FCDO instructed all UK
citizens travelling abroad to return home.
As a result, Mr and Mrs Es return flights home were cancelled by the provider. In order to
follow FCDO advice, they rebooked to return on 27 March 2020, but this flight was also
cancelled. Mr and Mrs E had to purchase new flights, with a different airline, but this flight
wasnt until 11 April 2020. The government of the country they were visiting also put in place
measures to try to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and this included a ban on interstate
travel, meaning that Mr and Mrs E were unable to make use of the motorhome booking they
had made. Instead they had to rent accommodation until the date of their return travel.
Upon their return to the UK, Mr and Mrs E made a claim for the additional costs they
incurred. URV initially stated that there was no cover under the policy for trip disruption but
then agreed to consider making payment of the travel delay benefit of £300 per person as a
gesture of goodwill. In July 2020, URV issued its final response to Mr and Mrs E stating that
as they stayed abroad for longer than initially planned, there was no cover under the cutting 
short the trip section. And that whilst there was cover for additional expenses incurred
abroad due to a major incident, this didnt include pandemics. It therefore continued to
decline the claim. 
Unhappy with URVs response, Mr and Mrs E brought their complaint to this service. Our
investigator looked into the matter and thought that the complaint should be upheld. She
found that the definition of a major incident included acts of nature and she felt that these
would be things that are outside human control. She concluded that the Covid-19 pandemic
was outside of human control and therefore the claim should be considered. She
recommended that URV pay the claim, subject to the policy limits and excesses and also
pay 8% interest on that sum. She also said URV should pay a sum of £100 compensation for
the conflicting information it gave for not covering the claim.
Mr and Mrs E responded to say URV had previously made an offer of settlement in
September 2020 which was for the policy limit under the major incident section  equal to
£3000  less the £900 it had already paid for travel delay. Mr and Mrs E felt that URV had
been incompetent in their handling of the claim and that they should be awarded
compensation of the full cost of their lost holiday.
Our investigator asked URV about this settlement offer previously made and it confirmed
that this had happened but that this was a mistake and it withdrew this offer. It reiterated that
it didnt consider the pandemic as an act of nature and so there wasnt any cover. However,
it did make a further offer of £300 compensation for the mistake made.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
On 17 June 2022 I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
promptly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in this case.
The policy provides cover if Mr and Mrs Es trip was disrupted due to a major incident. Pages
26 and 27 of the policy terms and conditions set out the section if a major incident happens
when you are away. It says:
If your trip was disrupted due to a major incident.
This is what we will do:
We will pay you up to:
- £1,000 for reasonable additional travel expenses to enable you to return home, or
move to a safer area.
- £100 for each 24-hour period for up to a maximum of £700 for additional
accommodation.
- £30 for each 24-hour period for food up to a maximum of £210.
- £150 for the emergency replenishment of baby essentials or prescription
medication, if your existing supplies run out during the period that you are delayed.
Deductible amount is £60 per person, per incident
Trip in this section is defined as: travel during the period of insurance.
Mr and Mrs E bought the policy in January 2020. The policy covered dates 2 March 2020 to
8 April 2020. The trip was booked towards the end of 2019 and began on 2 March 2020. So,
Im satisfied that travel took place during the period of insurance. From what Ive seen, Im
also satisfied that Mr and Mrs Es trip was disrupted due to the Covid-19 pandemic and
thats what ultimately led to their pre-booked return flight to the UK being cancelled by the
airline. So, the crux of the issue for me to determine is whether I think the Covid-19
pandemic can fairly and reasonably be said to amount to a major incident.
Under the trip disruption section of the policy, major incident is defined as:
war, invasion, acts of foreign enemy, hostilities or warlike operation (whether war be
declared or not), civil war, mutiny, military rising, insurrection, rebellion, revolution,
military or usurped power, climatic conditions, volcanic eruption and other acts ofnature which first arise during your trip
But the phrase other acts of nature isnt defined under the policy. And in the absence of the
phrase being defined by the policy, Ive carefully considered whether URV has fairly and
reasonably concluded that this phrase doesnt include a virus pandemic. For the reasons Ive
set out below, I dont think it has.
The dictionary definition
Ive first taken into account the definition of nature in the Cambridge English Dictionary.
Although not definitive, I think its relevant that nature is defined as all the animals, plants,
rocks, etc. in the world and all the features, forces, and processes that happen or exist
independently of people, such as the weather, the sea, mountains, the production of young
animals or plants, and growth.
So, the dictionary definition doesnt expressly include a microscopic virus. However, I think
the definition  taken as a whole  is wide enough to include it. After all, a virus is organic
material that invades living cells and uses its chemical machinery to exist and to replicate
itself. As such, a virus could be viewed as part of the natural world. And given that the policy
doesnt define nature or other acts of nature, I dont think the policy contradicts the
dictionary definition of nature.
The legal position
Investors Compensation Scheme Limited v West Bromwich Building Society and
Others is relevant caselaw which sets out several principles for the construction of contracts
(the principles). They include:
Interpretation is the ascertainment of the meaning which the document would convey 
to a reasonable person having all the background knowledge which would 
reasonably have been available to the parties in the situation in which they were at 
the time of the contract.
That background knowledge is subject to the requirement that it should have been 
reasonably available to the parties and that it is not part of previous negotiations 
between the parties. It includes anything which would have affected the way in which 
the language of the document would have been understood by a reasonable person.
The meaning which a document (or any other utterance) would convey to a 
reasonable person is not the same thing as the meaning of its words. The meaning of 
words is a matter of dictionaries and grammars; the meaning of the document is what 
the parties using those words against the relevant background would reasonably 
have been understood to mean.
The rule that words should be given their natural and ordinary meaning reflects 
the commonsense proposition that we do not easily accept that people have made 
linguistic mistakes, particularly in formal documents. On the other hand, if one would 
nevertheless conclude from the background that something must have gone wrong 
with the language, the law does not require judges to attribute to the parties an
intention which they plainly could not have had.
The policy was taken out in January 2020. Applying the principles to the policy, Im
conscious that URV and Mr and Mrs E may not have had the global spread of a microscopic
virus in mind when entering into their contract of insurance together. And so, the phrase
other acts of nature set against this background may not have been understood to include a
microscopic virus.
But Im also conscious that a reasonable person with all knowledge of the background at thetime of entering the insurance contract could reasonably conclude that other acts of nature
would encompass all aspects of the natural world  including viruses. After all, different
types of coronaviruses have emerged over the years and have affected certain countries
along with other viruses such as the Zika virus and Ebola  and this this something the
parties wouldve been aware of at the time of entering into the contract of insurance.
Although, not legal authority arising out of the courts of England and Wales, the US District
Court in the Southern District of New York in JN Contemporary Art LLC v Phillips
Auctioneers LCC (No. 20-CV-4370) held that [i]t cannot seriously be disputed that the
Covid-19 pandemic is a natural disaster for the purposes of a force majeure clause in an
auction agreement which expressly referred to natural disasters. I dont think thats
inconsistent with the spread of a microscopic virus falling within the definition of an act of
nature.
Ive also taken into account the rules of language applied by the courts which say that a
sweeping up phrase will be of the same type as the previous specific provisions set out in
the clause. Applying the rules of language to the policy definition of major incident could
lead to the conclusion that the sweeping up phrase of any other acts of nature at the end of
the definition includes only acts of nature along the lines of volcanic eruption and climactic
conditions, not microscopic viruses (such as Covid-19). However, the curtailment section of
the policy, separately defines natural disaster. And when defining major disruption in the trip
disruption section of the policy, URV couldve included the term other natural disasters but
didnt. The phrase other acts of nature was used. If it had instead referred to natural
disasters when defining major disruption, then this may have been clearer for the
policyholder to understand. So, in this case, Im not persuaded that it would be fair and
reasonable to equate other acts of nature with the term natural disaster  as defined by the
policy.
Having considered all of the above, and in the absence of being separately defined
elsewhere in the policy, I think the phrase other acts of nature has more than one meaning.
Im also satisfied that the policy terms and conditions amount to a consumer contract. So, I
think The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA) is a relevant consideration here.
Section 69(1) of the CRA says: If a term in a consumer contract, or a consumer notice,
could have different meanings, the meaning that is most favourable to the consumer is to
prevail. The meaning most favourable to Mr and Mrs E would be that the phrase other acts
of nature includes microscopic viruses such as Covid-19.
Other relevant considerations
When deciding whether URV has acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mr and Mrs Es
complaint, Ive not only considered relevant law. Rule 3.6.4R of the Dispute Resolution
Rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook says, when considering whats
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, I should take into account: the
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice
and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for
Businesses, which URV must follow, including that a firm must:
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2).
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6).
pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate information to
them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading (Principle 7).The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers of financial
services in certain circumstances to do to ensure that customers are treated fairly. And this
Guide explains that firms should take account of what information the customer needs to
understand the product or service, its purpose and the risks, and communicate information in
a way that is clear, fair and not misleading.
I also think its good industry practice for underwriters of travel insurance policies to clearly
set out the terms on which someone is insured, including what they are and arent covered
for. And they ought to provide clear definitions of any words or phrases which could be
ambiguous and have various different meanings. Ive explained above why I consider the
phrase other acts of nature to be ambiguous and, without the phrase being separately
defined, that it has different interpretations.
Overall, Im satisfied that its fair to conclude that URV hasnt acted fairly and reasonably by
declining Mr and Mrs Es claim under the travel disruption section of the policy in the
circumstances of this case. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for the phrase other acts of
nature to include the Covid-19 pandemic.
The policy exclusions
The trip disruption section of the policy also goes on to list what isnt covered and that
includes if: you booked your trip, or travelled after the announcement of a major incident. Ill
refer to this as the exclusion.
Under the policy, travelled isnt separately defined but Im satisfied that it would be fair and
reasonable to interpret this as the date of travel from the UK. The travel disruption section of
the policy expressly provides cover for: up to £1,000 for reasonable additional travel
expenses to enable you to return home or move to a safer area. So, if travelled in the
context of the exclusion is interpreted more widely to include all travel  including travel back
to the UK after the announcement of a major incident - then a policyholder is unlikely to ever
be able to claim on the policy for a return flight home after a major incident is announced.
Even though there is separate cover for such a scenario under the policy.
Im also satisfied that the announcement of Covid-19 being a major incident first took place
on 11 March 2020. Although, there were reports of people contracting Covid-19 before Mr
and Mrs E travelled on 2 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) didnt declare
Covid-19 as a pandemic until 11 March 2020. So, I dont think the exclusion is applicable to
the circumstances of this complaint, as Mr and Mrs E booked this trip - and the outbound
flight departed the UK - before the WHO announcement on 11 March 2020.
As pointed out by our investigator, Mr and Mrs E would always have had to pay for a return
flight to the UK, regardless of whether there had been a pandemic or not. Section B5 of the
policy it says it wont provide cover for any costs, which you would have expected to pay
during your trip. Therefore, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask URV to pay for the full
cost of the new flights as Mr and Mrs E should be able to recover the amount paid for the
original unused return flights from the airline or travel provider. In the circumstances, URV
can deduct the cost of the return portion of Mr and Mrs Es original flight costs from the
amount claimed for any new flights.
Travel delay section (B1)
URV had previously agreed to consider the claim under section B1 of the policy, entitled If
you are delayed. It said this payment was a gesture of goodwill as the claim wouldnt becovered under this section. Pages 18 and 19 of the policy terms and conditions set out the
cover available under this section. It says:
If this happened:
Your departure from your international departure point was delayed by more than 12
hours after your scheduled departure time because of a disruption to your transport
providers service.
This is what we will do:
We will pay you
- £30 for each full 12 - hour period that you are delayed up to a maximum of £300
The policy goes on to define what it means by international departure point which it
describes as any airport, international rail terminal or port from which you leave a country
having passed through passport control.
In order to make a claim under this section, the policyholders departure needs to be delayed
from their international departure point and that requires the policyholder to have passed
through passport control. In Mr and Mrs Es particular case, their return flights were
cancelled by the airline quite some time prior to the departure date and therefore they were
not at the airport, or through passport control, when this happened. This isnt a situation
which the travel delay sections of travel insurance policies are generally intended to cover
and, based on the terms of the policy, Im not of the opinion that there is a valid claim under
this section.
So, I think URV is fairly entitled to deduct the benefit paid under the travel delay section from
the overall settlement.
Claims handling
Over a period of several months in 2020, URV provided Mr and Mrs E with several different
outcomes to their case. It was initially declined in full, followed by a payment for the travel
delay benefit. It then stated there was no cover for the additional expenses incurred but in
September 2020, URV made an offer to Mr and Mrs E to cover the claim under this section,
up to the maximum of £1000 per person, with a deduction of £900 for the amount paid for
the travel delay. It wasnt until early 2022 that URV explained this was a mistake and
withdrew its offer.
Im in no doubt that this constant change in stance by URV has caused Mr and Mrs E great
frustration. And the delay in withdrawing a previously made offer has simply added to that.
Mr and Mrs E have asked for the full refund of the unused holiday as recompense for the
poor service provided to them by URV. And whilst I fully understand that this has caused
them great upset, I do need to take into account that this was an unprecedented situation
and Covid-19 was having a significant impact on the travel insurance industry. So, I dont
think it is unreasonable that this would have had some impact on the normal levels of service
provided.
Our investigator offered a sum of £100 as compensation to take into account the distress the
conflicting information would have had on them. However, this was before she became
aware of the offer made to Mr and Mrs E in September 2020, which was subsequently
withdrawn. Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that this sum adequately
compensates Mr and Mrs E for the overall poor service they have received. URV has agreedto make a compensation payment of £300 and I think this is a fair and reasonable award in
the circumstances.
Im aware that URV has already made an offer of £150 for delays relating to a separate
claims issue  this £300 compensation award is separate to, and doesnt include, that
payment.
URV didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mr and Mrs E did reply. They explained that 
they were unhappy with the level of compensation that was being offered and they didnt feel 
that the description of how they felt about the behaviour of the insurer as incompetent went 
far enough in what they say was an unfair and unreasonable rejection of their claim. They 
made several points in respect of that, which Ive summarised below:
They dont believe that the situation regarding Covid-19 impacted the insurers 
decision and capacity to act as URV was able to make decisions quickly and easily.
The offer to make payment under the travel delay section shouldnt be considered as 
a goodwill gesture. This wasnt how it was described when the offer was initially 
made but the payment was called that by the complaints department in support of 
their decision.
The ombudsman hasnt given enough weight to the way the claim was treated and 
how difficult the insurer has made it for them to be compensated properly.
Mr and Mrs E have referred to an outstanding medical bill which was part of this 
claim and still hasnt been resolved. The ombudsman has commented that this is a 
separate claim but Mr and Mrs E say this is for the same claim. They feel it is another 
example of where the insurer is being unfair in its treatment of them.
They are surprised that our service doesnt require consumers to provide supporting 
documents for their complaint but relies on the insurer to provide the information. 
They say the insurer should have told us about the offer it made earlier even if this 
was a mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank Mr and Mrs E for their full and considered response to my provisional 
decision. Ive only provided a summary of their comments above and although I may not 
have mentioned everything that they have detailed, I would like to reassure them that I have 
carefully considered everything they have said when reaching my final decision.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Es comments that the decisions made by the insurer were quite swift 
at times and so I can understand why they dont think that the pandemic should be 
considered as having an impact on how their claim was handled. However, as I mentioned, 
this was an unprecedented situation and so I think it would have affected the claims handling 
process in many different ways, not just in relation to delayed responses. I have taken that 
into consideration when reaching my decision.
Mr and Mrs E have said that the travel delay payment wasnt made to them as a goodwill 
gesture initially but was called this by the complaints department later. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, the travel delay section doesnt provide cover for the situation Mr and 
Mrs E found themselves in and therefore URV didnt have to make any payment under this 
section. The fact that this may not have been explained as a goodwill gesture until later 
doesnt alter my opinion that their claim isnt covered under this section. So, if URV wishes to 
deduct it from the overall settlement, it can do so if it chooses.As has been pointed out by Mr and Mrs E, there is another part of the claim which relates to 
a medical bill which they say has yet to be paid. Im aware that this all stems from the same 
trip and claim, but this did not form part of the original complaint that was brought to this 
service. Therefore, it isnt something that has been investigated or that I have made a finding 
on. My comment in the decision related purely to the point that the compensation that was 
paid already should not be included in the £300 I was now asking URV to pay. I would ask 
however, that URV move forward with urgency to resolve this remaining part of their claim.
Im aware of Mr and Mrs Es comments about not being required to provide supporting 
documentation to evidence their complaint. If a consumer wishes to provide information in 
support of their complaint they are welcome to do so. However, quite often all of the 
information is available from the financial business file. I appreciate that this has not been 
the case in this instance and that has caused more upset for Mr and Mrs E  this is 
something I have taken into consideration when reaching my outcome.
Mr and Mrs E still feel that, as a result of the actions of URV, they should receive a higher 
compensation, in the form of the full refund of the unused holiday. Ive taken on board all of 
their comments about this situation and considered the impact this has had on them very 
carefully when reaching my decision. And while I understand their reasoning for this request, 
Im not persuaded that such an award would be reasonable in these circumstances. Im 
satisfied that the compensation of £300 for the poor service received is fair.
Putting things right
URV need to do the following:
assess and pay the claim on the basis that a major incident includes the Covid-19 
pandemic and is covered under the trip disruption section of the policy. The claim is 
subject to the financial limits of this section of the policy. (The cost of the return 
portion of the originally purchased flights can be removed from the assessment and 
the payment made under the travel delay section can be deducted from the 
settlement amount if URV chooses to do so.)
Add 8% simple interest to the settlement amount, from the date the claim was made 
to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs E £300 compensation already offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, Im upholding this complaint.
Union Reiseversicherung AG must put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman