DRN-3606565
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc did not fairly compensate him for taking 
too long to put things right after it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
On or around 11 July 2019, Mr H complained to RBS that it had mis-sold PPI to him in 
respect of eight loans taken out between 1997 and 2004. Mr H complained to this service 
about the sale of the cover on 25 August 2019. 
On 9 September 2019, RBS decided to uphold six of the complaints. Through his 
representative, Mr H asked RBS too escalate payment of the promised compensation as he 
was in financial difficulties. RBS indicated it may be able to do so if it was satisfied Mr H had 
a good reason. At this point, a decision on two loans was still outstanding. 
On 24 September 2019, Mr Hs representative told RBS that he accepted the decision in 
respect of the six upheld loans. I can see a further call was made to RBS on 5 October 2019 
in which Mr Hs representative said she thought the offer would be be paid more quickly 
because of Mr Hs financial difficulties. RBS said it had up 22 October 2019 to issue 
payment to Mr H. 
After intervention from this service, RBS decided to uphold the complaint about the 
remaining two loans. 
It doesnt look as though any compensation was paid to Mr H until January 2020, with the 
final payment being in June 2020. Mr H complained to RBS about how long it took to 
process the compensation. 
In response, RBS said that following the PPI deadline of 29 August 2019, it had dealt with a 
significant number of complaints. It said this caused delays in its ability to process payments 
quickly. It said that it took until January 2020 to issue some cheques to Mr H because it 
needed to obtain information about any insolvency or arrears still showing on the accounts. It 
acknowledged Mr H made it aware he was in financial difficulty. It offered to pay £150 to 
compensate him because the redress was not made within RBSs stated timescales. 
Through his representative, Mr H did not accept the offer RBS made. He said he had 
accrued significant interest on his mortgage arrears, which he says the compensation was 
used to clear. He said he wanted adequate compensation for his distress and losses. 
Our adjudicator thought RBS had fairly compensated Mr H. Mr H disagreed. He said had not 
received an offer or payment of £150 from RBS. 
As Mr H disagreed with our adjudicators view, the matter was passed to me to make a final 
decision. I asked our adjudicator to seek some further information from both parties. RBS 
provided copies of its call logs. No response was received from Mr Hs representative to our 
adjudicators email request for further information or her follow up telephone call. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, but I agree with our adjudicator that the £150 RBS offered to 
pay to Mr H is a fair way to settle the complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that RBS paid Mr H compensation in respect of his PPI complaints. On 
that basis, I dont need to look at what happened at the point of sale. Im looking at whether 
the additional payment RBS made to Mr H was reasonable. 
I said above that I had asked Mr H for some further information about the arrears he told us 
he had at the relevant time. That information has not been forthcoming, but I am satisfied I 
have sufficient evidence already within the file to make a final decision. 
Looking at the information before me, I am satisfied that Mr H made RBS aware that he was 
having financial difficulties. And from the call logs RBS provided to us, I can also see that 
RBS told Mr H on more than one occasion that his case would be escalated to the payment 
team to see if his compensation could be made more quickly. I cannot see that RBS told him 
unequivocally that he would be paid more quickly  I can just see that RBS said it would see 
if it was possible to do so. 
RBS call logs did not give precise details of the financial difficulties Mr H told it about. I 
would expect RBS to at least consider expediting payment when it had been told there were 
financial difficulties. But although RBS said it would try and escalate Mr Hs payment, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that the request was treated with any urgency. I think RBS 
should take action to put that right. 
Mr H told us that he had accrued significant interest on his mortgage arrears because of the 
delay. He inferred that if hed had the money first, he would have used it to pay his arrears 
sooner. I accept that Mr H had mortgage arrears and that by RBS taking longer to pay him, 
he lost the opportunity to use those compensatory funds as he chose. 
But, as part of the compensation RBS offered to Mr H, it paid 8% simple interest. This 
additional interest payment is to compensate him for being out of pocket for the time he 
didnt have use of his money. Our adjudicator said RBSs offer was in line with the approach 
of this service. And so that simple interest would have been calculated up to the date Mr H 
got his money back. So if the compensation was paid in January 2020, 8% simple interest 
would have been calculated and paid up to that date. 
Im satisfied that the additional 8% simple interest paid to Mr H to compensate him for being 
out of pocket is in line with what I would usually expect.
I can see that Mr Hs representative did make several calls to RBS trying to chase matters. 
The representative told us of the inconvenience she was put to in doing so.  However, in 
deciding whether to make an additional payment for inconvenience, I have to apply the rules 
that relate to this service. Those rules are known as the DISP rules, and they can be found 
online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
DISP 3.7 sets out the awards I can make. I do not have any power to tell RBS to pay 
compensation for the time spent by or inconvenience to the representative. Thats because 
Mr H is the eligible complainant in this matter, and not the representative. 
That said, I can see how Mr H would have been frustrated when RBS did not appear to treat 
his request with any urgency. With that in mind, I am satisfied that its offer of £150 is fair in 
the particular circumstances of this case. 
It is not clear to me whether Mr H has received this additional payment. If he has not and he 
accepts my decision, RBS will need to pay him the £150 as it previously indicated to him. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. However, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must pay him £150 
as offered to him on 16 September 2020 if it has not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman