DRN-3314773
The complaint
Following an incident Mr W complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited have settled a 
claim on his motor insurance policy as a 50 / 50 liability which he doesnt think is fair.
Ms C is a named driver, and was driving the car at the time, so Ive also referred to her in 
this decision.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are responsible for it 
Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements of this below, and they form part of this final decision.
In November 2020 Ms C was unfortunately involved in an incident where she says another 
car reversed into her. She got a witness details, spoke to a bus driver who told her about 
CCTV on the bus, and then spoke to the other driver. Ms C says the other driver was very 
unpleasant, and immediately said she was going to tell her insurance company Ms C had 
driven into her. Ms C said the other driver was walking around with no apparent signs of 
injury.
After speaking to the other driver, Ms C drove home, called Acromas to report whatd 
happened, and then called the bus station to ask about the CCTV. She wasnt able to get it, 
so called Acromas back and asked them to do so.
In December 2020, Mr W and Ms C were told the other party had made a personal injury 
claim  something Ms C strongly disputed.
In April 2021 after investigating things, Acromas decided to settle the claim on a 50 / 50 
liability split. They explained the damage only tells a set of circumstances, not how things 
actually happened. They said regarding witness statements theyd been trying to get them 
but couldnt, and its not appropriate for them to badger witness. They said theyd been 
proactive in contacting the bus company, and it was only after this repeated contact they 
found out the bus in question had been sold. They summed up by saying theyd taken this 
decision based on their experience of day to day claim handling  and if they went to 
litigation the judge would want to see some kind of evidence to prove one parties version of 
events, which they simply didnt have.
Mr W and Ms C got in touch with us, asking us to look into things, and explaining they felt 
Acromas should get the CCTV from the bus and a witness statement from the driver. They 
also felt it was unreasonable that due to Acromas delays the bus company sold the bus 
before the CCTV could be obtained and were concerned at the claim status affecting future 
policies.
In response to the complaint we raised for Mr W and Ms C, Acromas added itd been eight 
times theyd contacted the bus company  and that theyd got one witness statement, but the 
car descriptions were wrong so couldnt use it. And theyd been asked not to contact the 
witness again, which they had to respect. They felt theyd done all they could, including 
appointing a field investigator, and a 50 / 50 liability was the best possible settlement in the 
circumstances.
Unhappy with this Mr W and Ms C asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did 
so. She spoke to the bus company in June 2021, who explained theyd no longer have the 
footage. And, having spoken to the bus driver in question, he remembered an incident 
between two cars but because of the length of time thatd passed he couldnt remember any 
details  so he didnt feel comfortable giving a statement.
Our Investigator felt Acromas had reached a decision regarding liability fairly, so she didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr W replied and explained given all the evidence he didnt accept a 50 / 50 split. He also 
felt our Investigator was calling Ms C a liar  so the case has been passed to me to decide.
Before being able to finalise my thoughts, Ms C let us know the other party was taking 
Acromas to court. We asked Acromas about this, and they explained they had limited 
information as it was being handled by their solicitors, but it does look like the matter is going 
to court.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain I cant decide if the other party is responsible for the incident 
or not. That can only be decided by a court  and this appears to be happening. My remit is 
limited to determining whether Acromas have acted fairly and reasonably in deciding to 
settle this incident on a 50 / 50 liability basis as they did originally.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Policy terms
In Mr W and Ms Cs situation, the first step is for me to consider whether the policy terms 
allow Acromas to decide how to settle the claim. On this point, the terms say:
If we wish we may take over and deal with your claim in your name.
This is a standard term in motor insurance policies, so Im satisfied Acromas were allowed to 
decide whether to pursue the matter or not.
Evidence  bus CCTV and witness statement from the driver
When Ms C first reported the incident, she asked Acromas to get the CCTV  and says 
because they didnt attempt this for some time thats caused the evidence to be lost.Ive seen that Acromas did try and get the CCTV, and the bus drivers statement, on 
9 December 2020  which is a week after theyd heard from the other insurer was saying 
Ms C was liable.
Although I know Mr W and Ms C dont agree, I dont think thats an unreasonable amount of 
time. Its subsequently come to light the bus company keeps CCTV for around a month  
and Acromas made another effort to get the CCTV on 16 December, along with the drivers 
statement. So, I cant say Acromas efforts meant they were never going to get the CCTV.
But, I do think its relatively common for CCTV to be deleted after around a month or so. 
With that in mind, and before the month was up with the bus company not having replied to 
two emails, I think Acromas could have been more proactive. They could, for example, have 
called the bus company to try and get this information.
Instead, I can see further emails being sent to the same email address at the end of 
December, and through January and February. In April 2021, after the field investigators 
report, they sent another email  which also didnt get a reply.
In June 2021 our Investigator called the bus company. And, after a bit of investigative work, 
was able to speak to the relevant people. She confirmed the CCTV footage was no longer 
available. And, although the bus driver remembered an accident, it was so long ago he didnt 
feel comfortable giving a statement anymore.
This suggests to me that, its possible, had Acromas been more proactive, theyd have got 
more evidence to support Ms Cs version of events  the CCTV, and potentially a statement 
from the bus driver when he could remember whatd happened. I think thats important 
because of the next section.
Evidence  witness statement from other party
There was another witness to the accident aside from the bus driver. He was asked to 
complete a questionnaire to report what hed seen and return it to Acromas.
He did so, and what he said was exactly what Ms C had reported  bar the make of one of 
the cars. Acromas have said this means his statement wouldnt stand up in court. Ive noted 
though the field investigator felt this wasnt a barrier, because the witness statement aside 
from this was essentially exactly what Ms C had reported  that the other driver reversed into 
her.
Acromas havent explained why they didnt pursue this matter  as suggested by their field 
investigator. And I cant make them pursue the matter  even if the matter doesnt end up in 
court. But I do think their actions in trying to secure evidence from the bus company, 
combined with this, mean theyve not treated Mr W and Ms C fairly.
Summary
I dont think Acromas have acted fairly when handling this claim. I think they could have 
been more proactive in trying to get evidence, and had they done so, I think its at least 
possible theyd have felt they could dispute liability further and take the matter to court.
As Ive set out above, I cant decide this, or make Acromas take further action regarding this.
 Our Investigator picked up the phone and resolved in a matter of days what the position was 
with the bus companys evidence  which Acromas had failed to do in many months. Given 
that, I think had they been more proactive, this would have lessened Mr W and Ms Cs 
feeling of injustice about this whole situation. I think £300 is appropriate in the 
circumstances. As Ms C is acting as a representative, and hasnt formally joined to the 
complaint, I can only direct Acromas make this payment to Mr W.
Responses to my provisional decision
Acromas replied and said they thought it unfair to partially uphold this complaint against 
them because they actively tried to get the CCTV by calling the bus station  who told them 
to put the request in writing  which is what they did. They said if the bus station doesnt 
want to provide information, they cant force them to do so. They added regarding the 
witness statement the other insurer wouldnt have considered it credible due to the incorrect 
information. Acromas added a witness family member asked them to stop contact  so they 
couldnt have used the witness anyway.
Mr W said hed noted the payment of £300 but said its a small amount compared to what he 
and Ms C have suffered. He said hes still waiting for his excess payment of £400 to be 
returned  and hes glad its been acknowledged Ms C has been telling the truth about what 
happened. Mr W also said he noted theres no mention in my letter of how quickly Ms C 
contacted Acromas, the bus company and the Police to report what the other driver had said 
 namely they were going to make a fraudulent claim. Mr W said he couldnt understand why 
there was any delay in Acromas trying to get the bus footage, said its a shame this matter 
has been allowed to drag on for so long, and is at a complete loss as to why a 50 / 50 liability 
decision was made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Acromas comment that they did try and proactively get the bus CCTV footage. I 
dont recall seeing that in the evidence Ive been provided  but even if they did, Im not sure 
I can say they did enough. I say that because our Investigator managed to do this fairly 
promptly when looking into the case  and managed to get answers on the phone to the 
issues at hand. It seems reasonable for me to say if Acromas had handled things properly 
(whether thats by phone or email) theyd have been able to resolve this issue.
Ive also seen what Acromas have said about the witness statement, and that the other 
insurer wouldnt have deemed it credible. But this isnt what their field investigator said. They 
clearly said the statement was credible, as it directly supported what Ms C had said during 
the course of the claim. So, I cant agree it wasnt appropriate to at least share it and see 
what the other insurer would say.
Ive noted all of Mr Ws comments, but I think its important to remind him Im not deciding 
liability. So, Ive not decided whether Ms C is or isnt telling the truth  Im simply stating the 
evidence Ive seen could back up what shes said happened. I have talked about Ms Cs 
actions following the incident, although I didnt mention her calling the Police. Thats because 
Im focusing on the actions of Acromas, and whether theyve acted fairly.
As I mentioned before, it seems liability is going to be decided by a court. And thatll cover 
the excess Mr W has mentioned  as I could only tell Acromas to refund that, if I decided 
liability  which I cant.But, I do still think Acromas havent shown theyve done enough to properly look into matters 
in a proactive way. And, I remain of the opinion had they done so itd have lessened the 
impact to Mr W, and Ms C. So, I still think £300 is a fair outcome to resolve this complaint, 
for the issues I can consider.
My final decision
I partially uphold the complaint and require Acromas Insurance Company Limited to pay 
Mr W £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman