DRN-4116449
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) trading as Virgin One Account 
unfairly stopped a bank transfer.
What happened
Around September, Mr S attempted a transfer of £10,000 to a third-party individual  who 
Mr S says is a family member. Mr S contacted RBS a few days later as the transfer hadnt 
gone through - he was informed that the transfer had been put on hold because it was 
flagged by the banks fraud prevention system. RBS asked Mr S for more information. Mr S 
was able to provide most of this information but was unable to provide records relating to the 
payees account. So RBS didnt release the payment.
Although Mr S later completed the transfer in smaller instalments, he complained to RBS 
because of what happened. Mr S says the banks system shouldnt have flagged this 
payment, given the recipient was listed as an existing payee on his account. Mr S is 
disappointed that RBS couldnt explain why this transaction was specifically flagged and 
suggests the banks process is systemically racist, given the payees ethnic background was 
apparent from their name. Mr S is also unhappy that RBS didnt notify him when it placed a 
hold on the transfer and feels the bank was wrong to expect him to obtain records related to 
the third-party.
In its response, RBS stood by its actions and didnt agree that there was evidence of the 
bank being discriminatory. The bank added that it had acted in line with its terms and 
explained that the transaction was automatically flagged by its system, which is something it 
cannot avoid. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr S asked this service to get involved. He wants the bank to accept it 
had acted unfairly and in breach of the relevant rules and terms. Our investigator concluded 
that RBS had acted fairly when fulfilling its duty to take steps to prevent fraud. Mr S doesnt 
agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final say.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
I should point out that it isnt within my remit to tell RBS how it should conduct its banking 
services, nor can I provide the bank with direction on its fraud prevention procedures. 
Commercial decisions and practices are the responsibility of the bank alone, and its the job 
of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), to oversee such activities. My role is 
to consider the specific circumstances surrounding this complaint and, if I think RBS acted 
unfairly, I can instruct it to do something to put things right.
On that basis and given that RBS terms explain that it can stop payments the bank thinks 
are suspicious, I think it acted fairly when it placed Mr S transfer on hold. RBS has a duty to 
take steps to prevent fraud and its up to the bank to determine how it does this. RBS says 
its system automatically flagged this transaction, and, in my opinion, its the banks 
commercial decisions that decide the parameters of its automated system. So although Mr S 
points out that the payee had existed on his account for some time and was someone hed 
sent funds to before, this doesnt necessarily mean that RBS system wouldnt flag up a 
payment to this particular payee. 
RBS placed the payment on hold until it could establish it was authentic. To do so, it asked 
Mr S for records and information. Mr S was unable to provide everything the bank asked for, 
so I think RBS decision not to release the payment was fair.
Mr S says it was unreasonable of the bank to ask for details and records relating to the 
payees account. I understand Mr S concerns around sharing third-party information with 
RBS, but I havent seen anything that suggests this information wouldve been at risk of 
being accessed by an unauthorised party. Although RBS didnt explain why it needed this 
specific information, it was nevertheless something the bank required under its own 
procedures to verify the transaction. Mr S was unwilling to meet such a requirement, so I 
think it was reasonable that RBS didnt release the payment. 
Mr S is concerned that the banks system flagged this transaction because of the payees 
name  he thinks RBS process is therefore systemically racist. I need to clarify that this 
service is unable to make findings on whether something constitutes discrimination as per 
The Equality Act 2010. This is because this service is an informal alternative to the courts, 
and only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the definitions set out within the 
act. 
However, I can consider whether the bank has acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and to 
do that I will take several things, including The Equality Act 2010, into consideration. 
Its difficult to reach a finding that RBSs system is designed to be inherently racist. Mr S 
suggests the systems algorithm has been set up to do so. But I havent seen anything that 
persuades me this is the case. I think its more likely that the transaction was flagged due to 
its value and because it may not have reflected Mr S typical banking activities. So I cant 
fairly conclude that RBS acted in a discriminatory way when it flagged this transaction as 
suspicious. 
Mr S points to the FCAs guidance and RBS terms and highlights that the bank failed to 
notify him when it placed the transaction on hold. He says he was unaware until he called 
the bank a few days after the transfer was initiated. RBS confirmed to us that it didnt notify 
Mr S. However, it seems Mr S was aware that the payment hadnt gone through, given he 
took the first step in contacting RBS to find out the cause for the delay. 
So although Mr S expected to be notified but wasnt, Im not persuaded that the impact was 
unreasonable, given he mitigated further delay by contacting RBS himself. Moreover, my 
interpretation of the FCA guidance Mr S refers to doesnt oblige the bank to provide a 
notification for every payment that it stops. So I dont find that the bank acted unfairly 
because of this.
Overall, in my view RBS has acted fairly in the way it handled this transaction. Although I 
note Mr S experienced some inconvenience, I cant fairly conclude that this was because of 
something RBS did wrong  nor do I think the inconvenience was to a degree that would 
lead me to decide compensation is reasonable here.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman