DRN-4269958
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the delays caused by Esure Insurance Limited (Esure) following the 
settlement of her claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs R referred a complaint to our service, regarding delays following a claim under her home 
insurance policy. Our service issued a view on her complaint and made recommendations, 
that were accepted by both parties. The recommendations were that Mrs R provide two 
quotes from builders and submit them to Esure. That if there was a difference in cost, then 
Esure would pay that difference. 
Although in the view there was no timeframe mentioned, in the letter that accompanied the 
view, our investigator recommended that Esure contact Mrs R in the first instance, as soon 
as possible.
The recommendations were issued in July 2022, with our investigator recommending that 
Esure contact Mrs R as soon as possible in order to settle the claim. Mrs R raised another 
complaint with our service, as Esure hadnt contacted her as per the recommendations. 
Ultimately, the claim hadnt been settled and Mrs R said there had been further delay. 
One of our investigators considered this new complaint and thought it should be upheld. He 
said that Esure may have felt that the onus was on Mrs R to provide it with the quotes. But 
he wouldve expected Esure to have contacted Mrs R in the first instance, as recommended, 
which it didnt do. He also said that Esure told him that it had sent two emails to Mrs R that 
werent responded to. But he concluded that Esure ought to have contacted Mrs R via some 
other means, which it didnt do. So, he recommended that Esure pay Mrs R £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. He also asked Esure to contact Mrs R, so 
that it could settle the claim.
Mrs R accepted the view, Esure did not. It said that Mrs R knew she had to provide it with 
estimates, which she didnt do. It accepted that there was a recommendation that it contact 
Mrs R as soon as possible but didnt accept that there had been any specific timeframe. So, 
it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
And I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I note that both parties accepted our investigators initial view and therefore accepted the 
recommendations. I think its fair to mention that in the view itself, there was no reference to 
a timeframe at all. But the accompanying closure letter to Esure, from our investigator, 
stated: Ive told Mrs R that youll be in touch as soon as possible and to let me know if there 
are any problems sorting things out. 
Consequently, I think Esure was aware that it shouldve contacted Mrs R within a reasonable 
time, from the issue of the view. 
So, Ive had a look into the time frame. The view was issued on 21 July 2022. On 26 
September 2022 an email was sent to Esure with the recommendation that Esure contact 
Mrs R (as soon as possible) to resolve the claim as recommended. 
Mrs R contacted our service on 31 October 2022, as she hadnt heard from Esure. By this 
time, it had been just over a month without Esure having contacted Mrs R. So, our 
investigator contacted Esure on 2 November 2022, asking it to get in touch with Mrs R to 
effect settlement. 
Esure said that it sent Mrs R an email on 3 November 2022, asking for the quotes. But Mrs 
R said that she hadnt received this email. Further, despite our investigator asking Esure to 
contact Mrs R and to respond to him, Esure didnt respond to our investigator until 29 
November 2022, saying that the case handler was absent. But that someone would contact 
Mrs R soon, and in any event by 7 December 2022. 
I think, had Mrs R received the email from Esure, then its likely that she would have 
responded to Esure. Moreover, had Esure sent the email on 3 November, I wouldve 
expected it to have told our investigator on 29 November 2022, that it had contacted Mrs R. 
But this wasnt done. Instead, it asked for more time to contact Mrs R.
Mrs R then twice contacted our service on 4 December 2022 and 14 January 2023 as she 
hadnt heard from Esure. Esure said that again it had sent an email on 13 January 2023, to 
Mrs R, requesting the quotes. 
But our investigator wrote to Esure and again rather than confirming with our investigator 
that it had sent another email to Mrs R requesting the information, it asked for another 
extension until 31 January 2023, in order to contact Mrs R.  Consequently, Im persuaded 
that Esure didnt contact Mrs R as soon as possible after the issue of the view, as 
recommended by our investigator and caused additional delay. 
As a result of this delay, Mrs R (who still hadnt heard from Esure by 4 February 2023) raised 
this new complaint.
In addition, had Esure sent the emails, I wouldve expected it to have followed up those 
emails by some alternative means of contact (such as a phone call), when it didnt receive a 
response from Mrs R. I havent seen any evidence from Esure that shows that it did this. 
Furthermore, I can see that our investigator also had to chase Esure for it to contact Mrs R. 
And I wouldve expected it to mention that it hadnt received the quotes from Mrs R, yet this 
wasnt done either.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I think that Esure were unreasonable and didnt 
act fairly. I think that it didnt contact Mrs R as advised and it was responsible for the 
additional delay and inconvenience that Mrs R suffered as a result. Putting things right
I think to put matters right, Esure ought to pay Mrs R compensation of £150 for the additional 
delays. Esure ought to contact Mrs R within 14 days of the date we tell it that Mrs R accepts 
this decision, to tell her how it wishes to receive the two quotes. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
To put matters right, Esure Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs R £150 compensation.
Contact Mrs R within 14 days of the date we tell it that Mrs R accepts this decision, to tell her 
how it wishes to receive the two quotes.
Esure Insurance Limited must pay the above compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman