DRN-4215059
The complaint
Miss Y is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost after she fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 31 May 2023. The background and 
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to not uphold it were set out in 
that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision in italics below:
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Miss Y has told us that in January 2022 she was looking for a loan for an emergency 
expense. Shes said she made several applications online, across a number of websites, 
applying for a loan for £1,600 and the following day she was contacted by one of the 
companys shed applied to.
Miss Y has said the company questioned why she had such a low credit score, but said that 
she was eligible for a higher loan for £3,000, which she agreed to. Miss Y has said that she 
didnt receive any emails or documentation regarding the loan, but she thought the company 
were legitimate, as shed checked their website and they continuously spoke to her over the 
phone. But unfortunately for Miss Y, the lender wasnt genuine and shed actually been 
contacted by a fraudster.
The fraudster was operating what is known as an advance fee fraud  which involves the 
fraudster asking for upfront payments on the promise of an eventual return to the victim  in 
this case that promised return was a £3,000 loan. Fraudsters will often keep requesting 
payments until their victim refuses to pay. The first payment request was for £301 which was 
required, the fraudster claimed, for the first instalment of the loan under a new insurance 
scheme set up by government, Miss Y has said she was told this was due to her low credit 
score.
Believing things to be genuine, Miss Y went ahead and made this payment. But the fraudster 
then asked for further payments, which the fraudster told her were for tax, but that the 
amounts would be refunded to her. The fraudster added that its payment portal could only 
process payments for £4,000-£5,000, so Miss Y needed to pay additional amounts to reach 
that figure. Miss Y sent payments totalling £1,601, to four different accounts controlled by the 
fraudsters, a breakdown of those payments is detailed below;
13 January 2022 £301
14 January 2022 £300
14 January 2022 £475
17 January 2022 £525
Miss Y has said she became suspicious, when after sending a number of payments she 
hadnt received an email from the company. Miss Y raised the matter with Monzo. It has 
committed to follow the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code (although it isnt a signatory) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo 
says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Monzo issued its final response to Miss Y in January 2022, not upholding her complaint. In 
summary it said it didnt feel Miss Y had taken enough steps to check who she was paying 
and what for.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Miss Y then brought her complaint to this service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld in part and 
that Monzo should refund 50% of the money Miss Y lost along with interest. In summary she 
said this because she didnt think Monzo had met the standards of it, as it hadnt provided an 
effective warning. But our Investigator also didnt think Miss Y had a reasonable basis for 
belief when making the payments, as she didnt think the reasons Miss Y was given for 
needing to send money were realistic.
Monzo didnt agree with our Investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Miss Y authorised the payments that are the subject of this 
complaint. Broadly speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017, she would normally be liable for them. But that isnt the 
end of the story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular 
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the CRM Code. As 
Ive said above, the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. A firm may 
choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that*:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics and 
complexity of the scam, Im minded to say that I dont think Miss Y had a reasonable basis 
for believing the payments were for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or 
business with whom she transacted was legitimate. Ill explain why.
-Miss Y acknowledges that she searched online and applied for several loans across 
multiple websites. Here the fraudsters questioned Miss Y about her low credit score, 
yet were willing to offer her a loan, of almost double what she asked for. I think    
Miss Y ought to have questioned why the fraudsters were prepared to offer such a 
generous loan and Ive seen no evidence to suggest she did question this.-I also think Miss Y ought to have had concerns when the fraudsters began to request 
money from her. I think its reasonable to say that it isnt usual for a legitimate loan 
company to ask for upfront payments before releasing a loan that it has agreed. And 
I struggle to see why there could legitimately be a need for Miss Y to pay the first 
instalment, before the loan funds were released.
-Im also mindful here that the reasons for Miss Y needing to send payments became 
more and more outlandish. Its hard to see why Miss Y would be required to pay tax 
and I also think it would have been fair and reasonable for Miss Y to have had 
concerns that she needed to send payments in order to reach a minimum amount of 
£4,000-£5,000, to enable a payment to be processed through a portal.
-I say this especially as the upfront payments Miss Y ultimately paid here were for an 
amount more than the original amount of borrowing she had applied for. If Miss Y 
didnt have concerns before this point, she really ought to have done when asked for 
these upfront payments to complete the loan.
-Ive also considered here that Miss Y hadnt received any documentation regarding 
the loan or signed any loan agreement. I think it would be fair and reasonable to 
expect a legitimate company to provide loan documentation for a customer to 
consider before agreeing to progress an application.
-As well as this, Im mindful, in the circumstances of this case, that Miss Y has made 
four payments, to four different payees, three of which were in the names of 
individuals. I cant see that Miss Y has questioned or been given a persuasive reason 
as to why she would be sending payments to what would appear to be personal 
accounts, rather than directly to the company with whom she thought she was 
dealing.
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have
been enough to have prevented Miss Y from proceeding. But when considering the specific 
circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was 
enough going on and sufficient red flags that Miss Y ought reasonably to have taken further 
steps to protect herself. I think Miss Y should have done more than she did to question the 
loan and to satisfy herself that it was legitimate before making the payments.
With the above in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that Miss Y 
ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the loan shed been offered and that, in 
turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Miss Ys part. In not carrying out 
sufficient checks I dont find she had a reasonable basis for believing she was making 
payments for legitimate purposes.
Good industry practice requires that regulated firms such as Monzo engage in the monitoring 
of customer accounts and to be on the lookout for suspicious or out of character transactions 
with an aim of preventing fraud and protecting customers from financial harm. And under the 
CRM Code, where it identifies a risk of a customer falling victim to an APP scam, it is 
required to provide that customer with an effective warning.
We now know, with the benefit of hindsight, that Miss Y was falling victim to a scam. But 
based on the information that was available to it at the time, I dont consider Monzo wouldve 
had any reasonable basis for coming to that conclusion. I say this because I dont think the 
payments Miss Y made would have appeared out of character or unusual.I say that as I can see from Miss Ys account history that it is not unusual for her to credit her 
Monzo account and to then make an outgoing payment, as was the case with the payments 
Miss Y sent to the fraudster. Overall I dont think the payments Miss Y made would have 
appeared to Monzo as being so remarkable or large, in comparison to Miss Ys usual 
activity, that it ought reasonably to have suspected that she may have been at risk of 
financial harm. So I dont think the CRM Code required that Monzo display an effective 
warning as part of the payment process, and Im not persuaded it wouldve had any grounds 
for intervening to question the payments with Miss Y before allowing them to be processed. 
When considering this I think the interventions it did make in the circumstances of this case 
were proportionate.
Finally I have considered whether Monzo did all it could to try and recover the money Miss Y 
lost. Monzo was limited in terms of what it could do here; it could only ask the beneficiary 
banks to return any money that remained in the recipients accounts. It needed to make 
enquiries quickly for the best chance of recovery. Unfortunately, it is common for fraudsters 
to withdraw or move the money on as quickly as possible, which was sadly the case here 
and unfortunately, no funds remained that could be recovered. Overall, I dont think Monzo 
missed an opportunity to recover the money Miss Y sadly lost.
All things considered, Im not minded to say Monzo is liable to refund Miss Y under the terms 
of the CRM Code. In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what 
happened to Miss Y and I am sorry she has lost out here. She was the victim of a cruel scam 
designed to defraud her of her money. I appreciate that shes lost a significant amount 
because of what happened.
But I can only look at what Monzo was and is required to do and Im not persuaded that 
Monzo is required to refund her under the CRM Code, nor that the bank was at fault in 
making the payments Miss Y had instructed it to make or for any other reason.
 
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider by 28 June 2023.
Monzo accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Miss Y also responded, but didnt agree with the provisional decision. In summary she said;
- At the time she had completed several loan applications and had received other 
calls, from other companies, so it wasnt unusual for her to receive a call. Miss Y said 
the fraudsters call, was the third call she had received from a loan company that day.
- The fraudster had specific personal information about her, that she had entered on 
her loan application.
- She had specifically been looking for loans for people with poor credit scores. And 
when she was asked for an initial fee, she assumed this type of process was for 
people with poor credit ratings. She added she was in a state of emergency when 
taking out the loan and hadnt considered companies had set up to defraud people in 
this way.
- She checked the companies website and it appeared normal with a Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) number and a company registration number.- She had several conversations over a number of days, during which the offer was 
made to increase her loan to £3,000.
- She became suspicious when she had not received any loan paperwork or a phone 
call after making the third payment and she began to question things. She said she 
spoke to people who presented themselves as senior people and guaranteed she 
would receive a refund and that the loan would be released.
- Regarding the payments made to personal accounts. Miss Y said she questioned this 
after making the third payment and was given company bank details to make 
payments to.
Miss Y has added that at the time she was desperate to receive a loan and very excited to 
finally receive an offer, after searching for two weeks. Shes said the experience has caused 
her a lot of anxiety and put strain on relationships with family and friends.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their responses to my provisional decision.
Miss Y has told us something of the impact this scam has had on her, which I imagine was 
hard to do. Im sorry to hear how difficult a time this has been for her. I understand how 
falling victim to such a cruel and callous scam has been deeply upsetting and I have a great 
deal of sympathy for her.
But I can only compel Monzo to refund Miss Y if it is responsible for the loss incurred.  
Having carefully re-considered the circumstances of this case, I cant see any basis on which 
I can fairly say that Monzo should be held liable for some or all of Miss Ys loss.
Ive considered Miss Ys response to my provisional decision, but in the main, this isnt new 
information that Miss Y has told us about. To a degree the points she has raised formed part 
of the evidence that Miss Y and Monzo had previously provided to this service. As such, I 
had already considered most of these points ahead of issuing my provisional decision, so I 
wont repeat everything again here.
Miss Y has clarified that she did question, after making the third payment, why the payments 
were being made to personal accounts, and has said she was then provided with company 
account details. But, from the evidence Ive seen, the only account name that Miss Y was 
given that appeared to have been a company account was when the second payment, for 
£300 was made. And Im mindful that when making this particular payment the Confirmation 
of Payee notification Miss Y would have been presented with at the time, showed that the 
beneficiary bank was not supported (meaning that Miss Y wouldnt have received 
confirmation from Monzo that the account details she entered matched with the name on 
the beneficiary account). So it wouldnt have been confirmed to Miss Y that she was actually 
paying a company.
And importantly for the final two payments she made, she again made payments to account 
details she had been given with personal names. With this in mind, Ive not seen anything 
here to satisfy me that Miss Y ought to have been reassured, when she had been given four 
different sets of bank accounts which appeared to be predominately held by individuals. I 
dont think a legitimate loan company would ask for payments to be made to personal accounts and I think this ought to have appeared as a red flag to Miss Y, especially 
considering she was being asked to make these payments before the loan funds had been 
released to her. 
Miss Y has also shared more detail around her circumstances at the time and how she was 
desperate to take out a loan. The CRM Code talks about customers being reimbursed, 
despite exceptions applying, if the individual was vulnerable to the extent that they were 
unable to protect themselves from the scam. But from what Ive seen I dont think this 
applies to Miss Y.
I say that as Miss Y was seeking to take out a loan, a decision that she took proactively, 
rather than being cold-called or pressured into an arrangement and shes told us she made 
numerous applications. Thats not to take away from what I appreciate was a difficult time for 
Miss Y and its not my intention to suggest she didnt need a loan to help with her finances. 
But it doesnt seem to be the case that it would be unreasonable to expect her to have been 
able to protect herself.
Overall, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I indicated in my provisional 
decision. When considering the specific circumstances of this case and the factors in the 
round, on balance, I think that there was enough going on and sufficient red flags that Miss Y 
ought reasonably to have taken further steps to protect herself. I think Miss Y should have 
done more than she did to question the loan and to satisfy herself that it was legitimate 
before making the payments.
For reasons explained, when considering the CRM code, I also dont think there was a 
requirement for Monzo to provide an effective warning to Miss Y ahead of her making the 
payments and I dont think it missed an opportunity to prevent Miss Y from sadly losing this 
money.
Im sorry to have to disappoint Miss Y, but I remain of the view that this complaint shouldnt 
be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman