DRN-3168204
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the refusal of a claim made under his pet insurance policy with 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
What happened
In August 2020, Mr M made a claim under the policy for treatment for his dog who had had 
recurrent vomiting, which had started in June 2020. 
The policy with RSA started on 28 March 2020 and the claim form completed by the vet said 
the claim was for the continuation of treatment which had started in July 2019. RSA 
therefore refused the claim, as the policy excludes cover for pre-existing conditions. 
Mr M is very unhappy about this and wants the vets bills of £895 and other costs covered. 
He says it is unfair and RSA has relied on incorrect generic wording from the vet. Mr M says 
his dog had a couple of issues with sickness and diarrhoea in 2019 but these are unrelated 
and the vet presented this as a continuing problem by mistake. Mr Ms vet wrote to RSA with 
further information and he says she confirmed categorically that the incidences in 2019 were 
unrelated to this claim in 2020. 
Mr M also says that the bilious vomiting was not the issue they were concerned about  it is 
just caused by dogs not eating for a long time (normally overnight) - but that the dog was not 
gaining weight and was in poor condition, even though he eats ate a lot.  
RSA reviewed the claim but maintained its refusal of the claim. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that it be upheld, as 
he thought RSA was entitled to rely on the exclusion it had. The investigator also thought 
RSA had acted reasonably in making enquiries with the vet that had treated Mr Ms dog in 
2019 and also having the matter reviewed by its own in-house vet, to check that the 
incidences of vomiting referred to in 2019, before the policy started were related to the 
treatment being claimed for. The investigator didnt think RSA could be asked to meet the 
claim. 
Mr M does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy contains the following exclusion to cover: 
We will not pay 
3) for health issues, concerns, illnesses and injuries which you or your vet were aware of 
before you took out the policy, they are known as pre-existing conditions .
The Schedule of Cover also states:
You accept that the policy will not insure:
 health issues, concerns, illnesses and injuries which you or your vet were aware of before
you took out the policy, they are known as pre-existing conditions.
Pre-existing conditions are:
 changes in your pets health or behaviour;
 existing physical abnormalities;
 existing illnesses or injuries;
 existing illnesses, injuries or physical abnormalities which lead to other health issues or
  injuries;
 illnesses or injuries which are medically linked to existing illnesses, injuries or physical
 abnormalities.
This is not unusual or unfair. Most pet insurance policies contain a similar exclusion and 
similar definitions of pre-existing conditions. 
The treating vet linked the episodes in 2020 with the previous problems in 2019. The claim 
form asked:
Is this claim for a continuation of treatment and she answered yes. 
The form then says if yes, please advise the previous dates of treatment and she wrote 
from 19/7/19 to 8/10/19. 
Mr M says this was a mistake and the sickness his dog was suffering with when the claim 
was made was not related to the earlier episodes of vomiting.
 
Mr Ms vet provided some further information in support of the claim. She said that while    
Mr Ms dog had previously had an abdominal ultrasound, she recommended a more 
advanced ultrasound and other tests, due to the dogs poor body condition. The vet also said 
the bilious early morning vomiting which the dog is being treated for is not related to other 
vomiting and diarrhoea, as experienced in 2019: 
The investigations done here were mainly aimed at ruling out a porto-systemic shunt due to 
[the dogs] small size and poor body condition (not related to any vomiting or diarrhoea), 
 Regarding the bilious vomiting, I would not expect this to be associated with any other 
vomiting (eg vomiting food, or vomiting at other times of the day) or diarrhoea. Bilious 
vomiting is caused by bile building up in the stomach and irritating the stomach lining and is 
a distinct condition, separate from other causes of gastrointestinal upset. We are currently 
aiming to manage this with a combination of dietary manipulation and antacids.
Mr M says that this categorically rules out any link between the vomiting and stomach 
problems his dog was treated for in 2019 and the episodes he is claiming for in 2020. 
I do not agree it settles that issue. The vet does not explain why she said differently in the 
claim form. 
I also note that the referral report from the vet to a treatment centre in January 2021 says the 
referral was for: 
for further assessment/investigation of chronic vomiting, borborygami, polyphagia and poor 
body condition score.The carer's main concerns centre on the following 1) extreme polyphagia 2) poor weight gain 
3) chronic vomiting which is poorly responsive to prescription diets, B12, lypex and
fibre management 4) borborygami + posturing/bowing 5) 'burping'. 
So chronic vomiting was one of the reasons for this referral and the ongoing treatment and 
investigations.
RSA also contacted the previous vet to ask if they thought the episodes were linked. They 
said:
 
I can confirm that there is no evidence to confirm that  [the dogs] episodes in 2019 & 
2020 are related, or for that matter not related. 
RSA called the previous vet to try and get further comment on this, but the vet said they 
couldnt comment further. However, the previous vets response suggests there can be a link 
 they just cannot confirm one way or the other. RSAs in-house vet also reviewed all the 
clinical notes, as a result of which it maintained its position to refuse the claim. 
Of course vomiting can be caused by many things and might not necessarily be the sign of 
any condition or illness. If there were only mention of random isolated incidents of vomiting 
in 2019, then it might not be reasonable to link the two periods of treatment. However, it is 
clear Mr Ms dog had a lot of gastrointestinal problems ongoing since 2019. And, even if the 
vomiting and diarrhoea episodes 2019 were not related to the bilious vomiting, there is 
mention of bilious vomiting in the vets notes for August and September 2019.
Having considered all the available evidence, I am not persuaded that RSA acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in refusing the claim. The evidence is that Mr Ms dog was suffering from 
ongoing gastrointestinal problems, which started before the policy. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman