DRN-2194145
The complaint
Mrs B is complaining that she was told by SD Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at Home 
(Loans at Home), that she had to pay off a debt for a relative who used to live at her 
address. 
What happened
Mrs B had been borrowing from Loans at Home since April 2019. Mrs B took a total of six 
home collected loans and the amounts borrowed ranged between £375 and £1,100 and 
were to be repaid on a weekly basis. The terms of the loans were between 33 and 46 weeks 
and the weekly repayments were between £15 and £44.
Mrs B has said for her final loan, loan six, taken in January 2020, part of this was to repay a 
loan taken by a relative who I understand used to live at her address. Mrs B had no 
responsibility for the loan. Shortly after Mrs B took the loan she complained to the business 
as she didnt think it was right that she should repay another partys debt. 
In response, the business said that it had spoken with the area manager  who Mrs B says 
told her she needed to pay the third partys account in full before loan six was agreed to  
and the agent who were both present at the time. They said it was Mrs B who wanted to 
repay the loan. I understand that she had been making token payments on the third partys 
account for some time. Because of this, Loans at Home didnt uphold the complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. They said there was nothing to show that Mrs B 
had been forced into making the repayments for the third party. 
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicator. She said she had been told the debt would be 
recorded against her address if she didnt repay it. Mrs B also said that she had tried to give 
Loans at Home the third partys new address, but she was told her relative couldnt be traced 
at that address. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about Mrs Bs situation. And I can understand why she feels she shouldnt 
be repaying a debt for a third party  a debt for which she has no responsibility.
But I have limited information and evidence to refer to. And when that happens, I have to 
take into account the information and evidence I do have and consider what I think is more 
likely to have happened. 
While I dont doubt Mrs Bs recollection of events, I dont have enough evidence for me 
safely to conclude that Loans at Home advised her that she would need to repay her 
relatives debt in order for her final loan to be agreed to. 
Theres no information about why Mrs B had already been making token payments towards 
her relatives debt prior to making the final repayment other than her relatives post was 
being sent to Mrs Bs address. Mrs B hasnt said that during this time Loans at Home told 
her she had to service the debt. It may have been the case that Mrs B was concerned that 
the debt would be recorded against her address  which she says she was told  if the debt 
wasnt being repaid. But I dont have anything to show me this is what happened.
And Mrs B wasnt responsible for that debt, so I think it was more likely it was Mrs Bs 
decision to service that debt and eventually repay it in full. I know Mrs B feels strongly that 
this is not the case. But in the absence of any further information or evidence I cant fairly 
and reasonably conclude that Loans at Home advised Mrs B that she needed to repay the 
third partys debt. As Ive said above, it wasnt her responsibility and Loans at Home wouldnt 
have had any recourse against Mrs B if the debt wasnt repaid. 
Im sorry that I cant do anything more for Mrs B, but I have to be fair to both parties to the 
complaint. And in this case, there are conflicting recollections of what happened, and Ive 
had to reach my decision on the limited information that is available to me. I hope Ive been 
able to explain that to Mrs B. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman