DRN-1999488
The complaint
Mr D complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans (Oakbrook) acted 
irresponsibly when agreeing to provide him with a top-up loan. 
What happened
Mr D says he applied for a loan to top up his existing borrowing with Oakbrook. Mr D says at 
the time he applied for the loan Oakbrook should have carried out more affordability checks 
given the significant increase in the monthly loan repayments. Mr D says he is now 
experiencing financial difficulties and has been harassed by a debt collection agency. Mr D 
wants Oakbrook to refund the interest charged, amend his credit file, award him 
compensation and set up an affordable payment plan. 
Oakbrook says they carried out a reasonable credit assessment before granting the top up 
loan. Oakbrook says they have done nothing wrong and the loan has since been passed to a 
debt collection agency following its default. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Oakbrooks response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt the checks Oakbrook undertook were reasonable and proportionate. 
Mr D wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When looking into this complaint, I have considered this on its own individual merits and  
considered if Oakbrook carried out, what this service believes to be reasonable and 
proportionate checks before granting the top up loan to Mr D. 
I understand Mr D is experiencing financial problems and this must be a difficult time for him. 
What happened here is Mr D applied online to Oakbrook for additional borrowing which 
topped up a loan he had taken out around 15 months earlier with them. Mr D says when the 
new top up loan was granted, Oakbrook didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks and 
relied upon his previous repayment history with them. 
I understand the point Mr D is making here and this is central to his complaint. I can see 
from the information made available to this service, Oakbrook carried out a series of checks 
before granting the top up loan top Mr D. There are no set rules as to what checks a lender 
must undertake other than they are reasonable and proportionate relative to loan requested. 
I can see the checks included income confirmation, a review of Mr Ds credit file, searches to 
check financial commitments along with the history of loan repayments with them. 
The investigator felt Oakbrook should have also asked for sight of bank statements at the 
time of the top up loan request. While I dont support the investigators view on this particular 
issue, because that is not a mandatory requirement, when these bank statements were 
provided to this service, I couldnt see they showed any obvious financial stress. A loan with 
another provider was evidenced on the bank statements Mr D provided, although that in 
itself is not a reason for Oakbrook to decline Mr Ds request as they had taken this into 
account when assessing the overall affordability.
I have also looked at a credit report at the time the top up loan was granted by Oakbrook 
and while other credit had been made available to Mr D, there is no evidence, leading up to 
the top up loan approved by Oakbrook there were issues with his existing credit facilities. 
There is nothing from the information I have seen, Mr D made known to Oakbrook he was 
experiencing financial problems at the time he took out the top up loan. It follows, on 
balance, I cant see Oakbrook could have been aware of Mr Ds financial difficulties from the 
checks they carried out or from the information Mr D provided on his loan application. As I 
have said earlier it is the responsibility for lenders, like Oakbrook to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before granting borrowing and for the reasons I have already stated, I 
am satisfied Oakbrook did that here. 
Mr D says he is unhappy Oakbrook have passed the loan to a debt collection agency, 
although as the loan had defaulted, I am satisfied Oakbrook have acted in line with the credit 
agreement Mr D signed, under sections 3, 9.1 and 10.2. Mr D says that when Oakbrook 
transferred the loan to the debt collection agency it included front loaded interest. I cant see 
that would be incorrect for this type of loan, as no refund of interest is due -this would only 
be the case when the loan had been settled early, which is not the case here. If Mr D is 
unclear of the amount he now owes, he should discuss his financial situation with the debt 
collection agency to gain a better understanding, and to put in place an appropriate payment 
plan.
While Mr D will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of Oakbrook. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman