DRN-1901551
The complaint
Mr M complains that the vehicle he acquired through a conditional sale agreement financed 
by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to end the 
agreement and reject the vehicle.
What happened
Mr M tells us that in March 2019 he acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as S. He 
says that on 24 July 2019 the vehicle broke down suddenly and it was later diagnosed that 
the engine had seized. Mr M says that the limit on the warranty supplied with the vehicle was 
£5,000. But the repair estimate is more than £17,000.
Santander told us that it had supplied a report prepared by an independent vehicle 
examiner, a company Ill refer to as A. It said that A had concluded that there was no 
reason to suspect that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think a 
reasonable person would expect the engine to fail so soon into the agreement. She said that 
she was satisfied the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied and that Mr M 
should be able to reject it.
Santander didnt accept this outcome. It said the vehicle had been of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been 
asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr M being concerned and disappointed to be potentially faced with such a 
large repair bill within a few months of acquiring the vehicle.
Mr Ms conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Santander supplied the vehicle so its 
responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle. 
Mr Ms complaint is that about four months after the vehicle was supplied to him the engine 
seized. And the cost to repair it is substantially in excess of the warranty limit.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Whilst I dont apply the law - directly  I do take it into account. Relevant legislation here 
includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to 
contract goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined 
as being what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And can include 
aspects of previous use; price and durability.
Where information is unclear or incomplete - as is the case here - I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The vehicle when supplied to Mr M was about four years old and had covered about 57,735 
miles at that time. The cash price was almost £45,000. As a used vehicle it would not be 
reasonable to expect it to be in the same condition as a new vehicle. But I dont think its 
unfair to suggest that most reasonable persons would expect a vehicle carrying this price tag 
to still meet fairly high standards of performance and durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of supply they must be taken as not having conformed to it at the time of supply. 
This presumption applies unless its shown the goods did conform to contract at that time.
Santander has said its supplied information in the form of the report by A which shows the 
vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I disagree. Ill explain why.
The report by A doesnt reach any firm conclusion as to the cause of the breakdown. It 
concludes the engine has seized but says that unless it was dismantled it wouldnt be able to 
identify the cause. It suggests the most common causes of engine seizure would be 
lubrication issues; engine overheating; mechanical failure/fatigue. I cant see that A has 
addressed the issue of durability in reaching its conclusion that the vehicle was probably of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. It seems to be stating the obvious to say that the 
engine wasnt seized at this time. But the fact that it was functioning at that time doesnt 
mean it was of satisfactory quality. That the vehicle was able to cover approximately a 
further 3,200 miles before it seized is not, in my opinion, anywhere near sufficient to indicate 
the aspect of durability was met. Its challenging to suggest that a reasonable person would 
expect that having paid almost £45,000 for a vehicle it would breakdown from an unidentified 
cause within such a short period of use. In my opinion, the vehicle lacked durability.
Santander has not provided sufficient information to displace the statutory presumption - 
which applies in these circumstances - that this vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at the 
time of supply.
As the short time right to reject (30 days) had expired Id usually expect the supplier to be 
given the opportunity to have the vehicle repaired. Santander had that chance. But as it 
wouldnt cover the excess cost above the warranty limit, I understand the vehicle hasnt been 
repaired. The CRA requires repairs to be carried out in a reasonable time and without 
significant inconvenience to the consumer. As its over a year since the breakdown it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable to expect Mr M to accept the vehicle back at this stage.
Out of completeness, Ill deal with some other comments made by Santander in its response 
to our investigators view.
A MOT does no more than confirm that the vehicle has satisfied certain legal safety 
requirements. Its not a test of mechanical soundness. Nor is it a certificate of satisfactory 
quality.A warranty has no bearing on whether goods supplied are of satisfactory quality. Whilst the 
provision of a warranty may extend the rights of protection a consumer enjoys under relevant 
legislation, it cannot act as a limit on those rights. Where a vehicle is supplied which isnt of 
satisfactory quality and the costs of repair exceed any limit on the warranty, the effect may 
be to limit the liability of the warranty provider. It doesnt limit the liability of the supplier of the 
goods to cover any remaining costs.
In summary, I find on a strong balance of probabilities that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. I also find that Santander should have accepted its obligation to Mr M 
in these circumstances. Its failure to act has undoubtedly increased the inconvenience hes 
experienced in not having this vehicle available.
For the reasons given above Im upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
Santander should now take the following action:
1. End the agreement with nothing further for Mr M to pay from 24 July 2019;
2. Arrange for collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mr M;
3. Refund the deposit of £6,000;
4. Refund all payments made which have accrued from 24 July 2019 (pro rata 
calculation should be used where required.);
5. Pay £250 to Mr M for distress and inconvenience;
6. Arrange to have removed any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Ms 
credit record.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to sums arising from items 3 and 
4 above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I now require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to take the 
action Ive outlined in the immediately preceding paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman