DRN-4437305
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs B complain that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly blocked and closed 
their accounts. They say this caused them a lot of problems and upset and want NatWest to 
pay them compensation.
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr R and his wife Mrs B were long standing customers of NatWest. They had a joint current 
account and savings accounts with the bank. Mr R has explained that although he has other 
accounts with a different bank, the NatWest accounts were he and his wifes main accounts. 
He has said that he used the accounts to receive his salary, pay bills including direct debits 
and pay for important things for his family such as his childrens school dinners.  
In September 2022, NatWest blocked and reviewed Mr R and Mrs Bs accounts. This meant 
they werent able to access the funds in the accounts. The accounts were blocked between 
20 and 30 September 2022. Following this, in November 2022, NatWest decided to close 
Mr R and Mrs Bs accounts. NatWest wrote to them to let them know they had 60 days to 
make alternative banking arrangements. The accounts were closed in February 2023.
Mr R discovered that the accounts were blocked when he noticed his accounts had vanished 
from his banking app and he couldnt access them via online banking. Mr R made several 
phone calls to NatWest whilst the accounts were blocked seeking an explanation for the 
banks actions. He said NatWest wouldnt provide him with much information, didnt call him 
back when promised and overall, he was passed from pillar to post, speaking to around half 
a dozen different members of staff, which was frustrating, time consuming and upsetting.
Mr R has said that due to the block he and his wife couldnt use their bank cards so he had 
to ask a work colleague to buy him lunch, and his wife couldnt pay for things in a shop for 
their daughter, both of which were embarrassing and upsetting. Mr R says that this was 
more stressful for Mrs B because at the time she was pregnant.
Mr R has also said that the accounts of other members of his family were blocked at the 
same time. Hes said that this is no coincidence, and he believes NatWest has a vendetta 
against his family based on their ethnicity and religion. In support of his beliefs, he has 
explained that NatWest have blocked his accounts previously after he made some 
transactions relating to a religious pilgrimage trip hed planned. So, he says NatWest has 
discriminated against him in taking the actions it did. He wants NatWest to pay him £5,000 
compensation for the trouble and upset the block and closure of his accounts caused him 
and his wife. 
NatWest said it was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations when it had blocked 
and closed Mr Rs and Mrs Bs accounts. It acknowledged that at times it didnt provide the 
best service in response to Mr Rs calls and apologised. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr R and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service where an 
investigator considered it. The investigator asked NatWest to provide more information about 
why it had blocked and then closed Mr R and Mrs Bs accounts. The investigator also asked 
NatWest to provide a copy of the call recordings of the conversations it had with Mr R. 
NatWest gave us some information but said it couldnt provide anything more than it had 
already provided to us. The bank said it was complying with its legal obligations and hadnt 
discriminated against Mr R and Mrs B. 
The investigator said that based on the limited information the bank had provided, he 
couldnt say the bank had treated Mr R and Mrs B  fairly when it had blocked and closed 
their accounts. So, he said that NatWest should pay Mr R and Mrs B £150 compensation for 
the trouble and upset this had caused them. Mr R disagreed and said that the amount of 
compensation offered is insulting and doesnt adequately reflect the amount of trouble and 
upset he and his wife suffered. He also wants NatWest to explain why it did what it did.
In response to the investigators view NatWest provided more information about the reasons 
it blocked and closed Mr Rs and Mrs Bs account. It also pointed out that as a former 
employee of the bank, Mr R would be well aware that it doesnt tolerate discrimination. It also 
said that after searching, it couldnt find any call recordings of the calls Mr R made to the 
bank. So wasnt able to provide them to our service.
The investigator reviewed the further information NatWest provided. Based on the 
information he said he no longer thought NatWest had treated Mr R and Mrs B unfairly when 
it blocked and closed their accounts. So, he didnt uphold their complaint.
Mr R disagreed. He said NatWest are deliberately withholding the calls he had with them, 
and he strongly believes NatWest actions are based on discrimination. Hes said he has 
done nothing wrong and always maintained his accounts properly. He wants an explanation 
and £5,000 compensation for all the upset and trouble the banks actions caused him and his 
wife.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information NatWest 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I 
havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mr R and Mrs B, but Id like to reassure them 
that I have considered everything.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr R, 
Mrs B and NatWest have said before reaching my decision.Account block and closure 
NatWest are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect 
persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Theyre also required 
to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means 
they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their 
review. 
The terms of the account also permit NatWest to block an account. This means NatWest is 
entitled to block and review an account at any time.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for NatWest to block Mr R and Mrs Bs accounts. NatWest has explained that this was its 
standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so NatWest were 
complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions 
caused Mr R and Mrs B inconvenience and upset when it blocked their accounts, I cant say 
the bank did anything wrong and treated them unfairly in doing so. 
Banks are also entitled to end their business relationship with a customer, as long as this is 
done fairly, doesnt breach law or regulations and is in keeping with the terms and 
conditions. And unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a 
bank must keep a customer. But they shouldnt decline to open an account without proper 
reason, for instance of unfair bias or unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and 
existing customers fairly. In this instance the terms of Mr Rs and Mrs Bs accounts say that 
in certain instances NatWest can close the accounts with immediate notice and by providing 
60 days notice. NatWest wrote to Mr R and Mrs B in November 2022, giving them 60 days  
notice that it was closing their accounts and that theyd need to make alternative banking 
arrangements. 
This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the 
customer. Just the same as if Mr R and Mrs B decided to stop banking with NatWest, they 
wouldnt have to explain why. Based on what NatWest has shared with this service, Im 
satisfied their actions were reasonable in the circumstances. And the banks decision to stop 
providing Mr R and Mrs B with banking facilities was reached legitimately and fairly. 
In reaching this conclusion Ive also considered Mr Rs submissions that he and Mrs B has  
believe they are victims of racial discrimination by NatWest. While I can appreciate this is 
their perspective, it is not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide whether 
the business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Im required to 
consider a number of factors in order to decide Mr Rs and Mrs Bs complaint in accordance 
with what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Part of this 
has meant considering the provisions of the Equality Act 2010 . And after looking at all the 
evidence, Ive not seen anything to suggest that NatWest decided to block and close Mr Rs 
and Mrs Bs accounts for an improper reason. 
Communication
Mr R says he made numerous phone calls to NatWest to try and find out what was 
happening to his accounts. He has explained that he had to take time out of his working day 
to make the calls and the bank wouldnt give him any information, were generally unhelpful and he never received promised call backs. Mr R says that the bank does have the call 
recordings and are deliberately not providing them to this service. 
This is a serious allegation. Weve asked NatWest to set out its rationale for closing Mr Rs 
and Mrs Bs accounts. Weve also asked for the recordings of all the calls Mr R had with 
bank staff. I would expect it to set out for our service the full details of all of its interactions 
with Mr R when asked to do so. And the events which led to the block and closure of Mr Rs 
and Mrs Bs accounts. Ive not seen any evidence that would suggest it hasnt done so. And I 
dont think, as Mr R seems to fear, that there is anyone within NatWest who is deliberately 
misleading or withholding information from this service. 
Based on his detailed submissions, I accept that Mr R made a number of calls to NatWest 
and that each time he did he spoke to a different member of staff. Its unfortunate that 
NatWest havent been able to provide the recordings. So, I dont know what was said. But I 
can see that NatWest wrote to Mr R on 26 September 2022, explaining that it had blocked 
his accounts. From looking at the final response letter NatWest sent to Mr R dated 28 
September 2022, the bank accepted that the service it provided to Mr R when he called the 
bank to try and find out what was happening with his accounts fell short. NatWest apologised 
and I think this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Mr Rs complaint. So, I 
wont be asking the bank to do anything further.
In summary, its clearly caused Mr R and Mrs B trouble and upset when they werent able to 
use their accounts.  I appreciate it must have been a worrying and frustrating time for them. 
So, I realise they will be disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the evidence 
and circumstances of this complaint, I cant say NatWest treated Mr R and Mrs B unfairly 
when it blocked and closed their accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman