DRN-3319257
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as 
RSA (RSA)s decision to reject a claim they made under their home insurance policy. RSA 
has applied an exclusion for fraud when rejecting their claim under the policy and avoided 
their policy.
What happened
Mr M contacted their insurer RSA following an incident where damage occurred from spilt 
paint to their home. 
RSA investigated the claim and as part of its investigation instructed a forensic investigation 
company to review the circumstances of the claim as described. RSAs findings were that 
the damage wasnt consistent with Mr and Mrs Ms explanation of what happened. 
As a result, RSA concluded that Mr and Mrs M breached the fraud exclusion under the 
policy. And because of this it avoided the policy and refused to deal with the claim. In 
addition, RSA sought recovery of the claim costs it had already incurred from Mr and Mrs M. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to RSA but it said its decision was correct. So Mr and Mrs M 
asked us to look at their complaint. 
Our Investigator thought that  based on the information available to RSA  it had 
reasonably applied the fraud exclusion. And so she didnt recommend their complaint should 
be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. They said their explanation of what happened is true and the 
photos and video theyve provided supports this. Mr M says there was no motive for them to 
make a fraudulent claim as it cost less to clean the items than the excess. Mr M says this is 
what he asked to have done in the first place.
So as Mr and Mrs M dont agree, they want an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA can avoid a policy and refuse a claim if it believes a condition of the policy has been 
breached. In this case, RSA say, based on the evidence it has, its likely Mr and Mrs M did 
breach the fraud condition of the policy. Ive checked the terms and conditions of the policy 
in relation to this, and they say:
Fraud - If your family, or anyone acting on behalf of you or your family, uses 
dishonesty, exaggeration or false documentation to obtain or support:
 a claims payment under your policy, or
 cover for which you do not qualify, or
 cover at a reduced premium
all benefits under this policy will be lost, the policy may be invalid, you may not be 
entitled to have your premium refunded, and legal action may be taken against you.
Given the above, Im satisfied that, if a policyholder has breached this condition, RSA is 
entitled to cancel or avoid the insurance policy and refuse to deal with a claim if it wants to. 
It isnt for us to decide whether a policyholder has acted fraudulently or not. Instead, I need 
to decide if RSA acted reasonably on raising the fraud condition and taking the action it has.
So Ive looked at what RSA has taken into account, and whether I think this was fair.
Mr and Mrs M said that the damage happened when Mr M was carrying a new and what he 
believed to be a sealed paint pot. Mr M noticed that the paint had come out while he was 
walking across the room and had splashed onto him, onto the carpet, a sofa and a chair.
The forensic investigating company interviewed Mr and Mrs M and carried out a recreation 
of the circumstances as described: both with a paint pot of the same brand and type with a 
broken seal - and then with the lid loosely fitted. It found that on both occasions no paint 
leaked following the movements as Mr M described. It reported that the paint was thick in 
consistency and even with vigorous shaking, no paint escaped between the lid and the rim of 
the container. It reported that the photos and video provided by Mr and Mrs M showed lots of 
isolated trails of paint and in their view, was inconsistent with the circumstances described 
by Mr and Mrs M. It reported that the paint damage couldnt be rationally explained as 
occurring in a single accidental event. They said:
I am therefore of the opinion that the most plausible explanation is that the damage 
was the results of multiple events, and that either some or all of the damage arose by 
the deliberate application of paint.
Mr M said the forensic Investigator seemed to concentrate on their belief he had shaken the 
tin vigorously. Mr M says if that were the case, paint would be on the ceiling, walls, and on 
top of the couch and elsewhere. Mr M says;
the paint was simply carried from one side of the room to the other, lid obviously 
gently rested on top (believing it to be on - not sure why but at some point it was 
removed) and sloshed over the side whilst walking from one side of the apex to the 
other. It went mostly on myself, the curtain that can be seen on the video rolled up (to 
stop anymore paint running on to the carpet) and some splashed on to the side of the 
couch. I have a video of myself unravelling the curtain that was used before throwing 
it away, you can see the amount of paint that came out and in no way does it look as 
if it was shaken vigorously, it came out almost like a wave of paint. Im happy to 
forward this to yourselves if needed.
However, I dont think the forensic report suggests that Mr M shook the pot vigorously. From 
the recreation of walking side to side with the paint pot with the lid in two positions  and 
even with shaking the pot vigorously  no paint left the pot. And so it couldnt find the 
circumstances as described matched with the damage being claimed for.
Ive listened to a recording of the first discussion about the claim between RSA and Mr M. I 
didnt find that Mr M had asked for the items to be cleaned. Hed submitted his claim online 
and the agent discussed the claims process, the excess payable and that they would instruct a company to come out and see if the items could be cleaned or if they would need to be 
replaced. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed with my decision. But I think RSA properly 
investigated the claim. And having received the information it did, I think it was fair for RSA 
to rely on the forensic investigation report. 
I therefore dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to decide the fraud condition of the policy 
had been breached. And having reached that conclusion, I dont think RSA acted 
unreasonably in deciding to avoid their policy and refusing to deal with their claim. And this 
means I think it is entitled to seek recovery of the claim costs in line with the terms of the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman