DRN-3399994
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains about the sale of a property owners insurance policy by 
Protect Commercial Insurance Solutions Limited. 
The complaint has been brought on Ds behalf by its director, Mr N. 
What happened
Mr N asked a company (that Ill call W) to arrange a property owners policy for D. W 
contacted Protect Commercial and obtained a quote. This was accepted and the policy went 
into force on 1 October 2018. The policy renewed in October 2019 with no changes made to 
the cover.
After December 2019, Ds tenant stopped paying rent. Mr N wanted to make a claim under 
the policy for this, but the insurer said the policy didnt include rent guarantee cover. Mr N 
complained to Protect Commercial about the sale of the policy. He said hed specifically 
asked for rent guarantee cover to be included under the policy. 
Protect Commercial didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. It also confirmed it wouldnt 
have been able to provide quotes for rent guarantee cover as it doesnt have a 
product/insurer for this type of cover. Unhappy with this, Mr N brought a complaint to this 
service on Ds behalf.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think the policy had 
been mis-sold. 
Mr N didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
W acted on Mr Ns behalf and wasnt an agent of Protect Commercial. Ive noted that Mr N 
also wishes to complain about W, as he thinks both W and Protect Commercial are 
responsible for what happened. However, I havent considered whether W did anything 
wrong in this decision, as this would need to be considered under a separate complaint 
against W. Ive therefore only considered the sale of the policy by Protect Commercial.
Mr N says he specifically requested that rent guarantee cover be included under the policy. 
In other words, he wanted the policy to pay benefit in the event a tenant defaulted on their 
rental payments. Ive therefore looked at what happened.
On 28 September 2018, W asked Protect Commercial for a quote for D. They explained 
what they wanted covered, which included loss of rent with a sum insured of £45,000.
Ive checked the quote provided by Protect Commercial, and this included £45,000 for rent 
receivable (more commonly known as loss of rent).
Then on 1 October 2018, Protect Commercial sent W several documents, including the 
schedule and policy terms and conditions. The schedule confirmed that D had £45,000 cover 
for rent receivable. The policy terms made it clear that this would be paid if loss of rent was a 
consequence of damage covered by the policy. 
I agree with our investigator that theres no evidence to support that W told Protect 
Commercial they wanted rent guarantee cover for D, or that Protect Commercial led W to 
believe that this was included. 
There may well have been some confusion on Ws part when it asked for loss of rent cover. 
However, this is a common term in the insurance industry - it means protection if a property 
becomes damaged due to an insured risk which then results in a loss of rent. This is what 
Protect Commercial arranged, and Im satisfied the information provided to W made this 
clear. I wouldnt have expected Protect Commercial to have known that W meant they 
wanted rent guarantee cover. 
I therefore dont find that the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman