DRN-3830735
The complaint
Miss C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund a transaction on her account 
which she didnt make. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
Miss C has explained that she fell victim to a scam. First, she received a text saying she had 
missed a delivery and needed to click a link, seemingly from the post office, to rearrange 
this. She thought this was legitimate as she was expecting a parcel at the time. She clicked 
the link and, as prompted, provided personal information including her card details. 
The next day, she received a call from someone claiming to be from Monzo. They said there 
had been a suspicious payment on her card. When Miss C said she couldnt see this on her 
app, they said this was because they had frozen it to check if she had requested it. 
The caller said a security message would appear on Miss Cs app, and she would need to 
enter her PIN to confirm the suspicious payment attempt had been fraudulent. After she did 
this, the caller hung up. Miss C then checked her account and saw a £720 payment to 
Coinbase had left her account.
Miss C reported the scam to Monzo but it wouldnt refund her. It said she had not taken 
enough steps to keep her details safe. Unhappy with this response, she referred the matter 
to our service. 
Our investigator concluded that Miss C hadnt authorised the payment. And they didnt think 
she had failed with gross negligence or intent to keep her security details safe. They 
recommended that Monzo should refund the transaction, with interest, and pay Miss C £100 
compensation for the worry caused by failing to refund her sooner. 
As Monzo didnt accept the investigators recommendation, the matter has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss C isnt liable for 
payments she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
The PSRs specify that authorisation depends on whether the payment transactions 
were authenticated correctly  and whether the account holder consented to them. 
Its not in dispute that the payment was properly authenticated. 
The PSRs go on to state how consent is given. Briefly (Ill cover this in more detail 
below), consent happens when Miss C makes the agreed steps to make a payment. 
Or if someone else acts on her behalf and uses these agreed steps.
Its my understanding that, in order to make this payment to Coinbase, Miss Cs card 
details (such as the card number, expiry date and CVV) and the payment amount 
would have been entered on Coinbases website. Then the PIN was entered on her 
app. 
Im persuaded it wasnt Miss C who entered the card details to start the transaction. 
Monzo hasnt disputed this. We have a credible explanation, supported by the 
screenshot of the text and call, for how a scammer obtained these details the 
previous day. 
Monzo argues that, in line with its terms, Miss C consented to the payment by 
entering her PIN in the app. But she didnt do this with the understanding she was 
consenting to a payment. Rather, she thought this would block a fraudulent payment 
attempt. 
Furthermore, the PSRs set out that a payment is regarded to be authorised if the 
payer has given consent to the execution of the payment transaction. That consent 
must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between 
the payer and its payment service provider. 
As Monzos terms allude to, entering your PIN alone isnt enough to execute a 
payment. Further steps, such as entering the card details, are needed. As set out 
above, I dont think Miss C completed these earlier steps. Nor did she enter the PIN 
with the intention or understanding that she was authorising a payment. 
As Miss C didnt complete all the steps to make this payment, nor did she consent for 
someone else to do so, the payment is unauthorised.
I dont find that Miss C intentionally failed to keep her account or security details safe. 
She shared her card details as she thought she needed to do so to rearrange the 
delivery of a parcel she was expecting. And she only entered her PIN thinking this 
would stop a fraudulent payment; this wasnt disclosed to the scammers.
I dont find that Miss C failed with gross negligence either. The link in the initial text 
did refer to the post office. And in the context of Miss C expecting a parcel, I dont 
think she seriously disregarded an obvious risk by clicking the link and providing the 
details requested. 
The scammer was then able to use these details to more convincingly pose as 
Monzo when they called Miss C. Shes told us she was persuaded by the personal 
details they knew. And she did question them about why she couldnt see the 
fraudulent payment they were referring to  but was persuaded by their explanation 
for this.
In the context of being concerned that her account was risk, I can see why Miss C 
trusted the caller and followed their instructions. We know scammers use pressure 
and social engineering to persuade people. They had primed her to see entering her 
PIN as a necessary administrative step to secure her account. Monzo has pointed out that the call wasnt from an official number and only lasted 
five minutes. But given the circumstances Ive outlined above, I can see why Miss C 
thought she was following instructions from her bank to protect her account. I dont 
think she was alert to an obvious risk she was in fact making a payment or otherwise 
putting her account at risk. Or that she acted with a very significant degree of 
carelessness.
I therefore find that Miss C isnt liable for this payment. In line with its obligations 
under the PSRs, Monzo should have promptly refunded her when she reported what 
had happened. Its failure to do so unnecessarily caused her additional worry and 
upset. To address this, I consider it fair for Monzo to pay her £100 compensation.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Refund Miss C for the unauthorised transaction of £720;
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised payment to 
the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible), to compensate her for the 
loss of use of the funds; and
Pay Miss C £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to put things 
right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman