DRN-2446169
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish Widows Bank mis-sold 
them a monthly paid PPI policy alongside their mortgage in November 2005. To keep 
things simple, Ill refer to the business as Lloyds in the rest of this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a regulated mortgage in November 2005. They had a guarantor on 
the mortgage they applied for. They also took out a PPI policy at the same time. The policy 
was taken out by post, although Mrs M said she spoke to Lloyds about PPI on the phone 
first. They said they were told they had to have PPI. 
The cost of the PPI policy was £32.93 per month. The PPI policy provided a total monthly 
benefit of £670.70 to cover their mortgage repayments. When they took out the policy the 
benefit was split so if either of them made a successful accident, sickness or 
unemployment claim under the policy they would have received 50% of the monthly benefit 
amount. This would have been paid for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and did not uphold it. They didnt 
accept our adjudicators view and asked for their case to be considered by an 
ombudsman. They said, in summary:
Although the policy was quoted and signed for by post, Mrs M was told during a 
phone call that as this was their first mortgage, they would need to take PPI. 
They were not told at all, that if they couldnt meet their repayments they could 
choose to rely on their guarantor or their PPI policy. They always believed that their 
guarantor would have to meet any deficit in the repayments. The options were not 
made clear. 
In 2009, when Mrs M called Lloyds because her job was at risk, she was told the 
cover was split 100% in favour of her husband. She wrote to the bank to restore the 
PPI to a 50/50 split.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our adjudicator and am not going to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Did Lloyds make it clear that PPI was optional?
Mr and Mrs M said it wasnt made clear the PPI was optional and they didnt have to have it. 
Ive seen the paperwork from the time of sale. I can see that the mortgage offer made it clear 
that PPI was not a condition of the mortgage. Mrs M said she spoke to a representative of 
Lloyds on the phone and they said she had to have PPI. I cant know what was discussed 
during the call. But, looking at everything, I dont consider that I have enough to fairly 
conclude that Mrs M was misled into believing she had to get PPI to get the mortgage. They 
had to have a guarantor to get the mortgage, but not to PPI and I think the paperwork they 
were sent, including their mortgage offer, made that clear.
At the time this policy was sold Lloyds said that it didnt sell PPI over the phone and that PPI 
applications had to be made by post. I can see that Mr and Mrs M completed and signed a 
separate form to apply for PPI.
I think it more likely that Mr and Mrs M opted to take PPI knowing they didnt have to have it, 
having received paperwork about the PPI from Lloyds. So, I cant fairly say that Lloyds did 
not make it clear the policy was optional.
Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs M information about the policy that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. If they recommended the policy, they also had to consider whether it was 
suitable for their needs before recommending it. Lloyds had to draw the main features of 
the policy to their attention. Based on what Ive seen, I think it unlikely that Lloyds 
recommended this policy to Mr and Mrs M, so it didnt have to consider whether PPI was 
suitable for their particular needs and circumstances, that was for Mr and  Mrs M to 
decide. 
Informed choice
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, I cant see that PPI was 
inappropriate for them, or that if they had been provided with more information, they 
wouldve opted not to take out PPI. I think Mr and Mrs M were provided with enough 
information about PPI to make an informed choice about whether they wanted to buy it. 
Ill explain why:
They were both eligible to take out PPI given their circumstances;
Mrs M said she wouldve been entitled to at least three months worth of sick 
pay through work.    Mr M said he also wouldve got at least three months 
worth of sick pay. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per 
successful claim, so likely longer than their work benefits wouldve covered 
them for. It wouldve also paid out if they were made redundant. So, I think the 
policy couldve provided them with valuable protection in their circumstances, 
to protect their home;
They said they couldve relied on family assistance to help make their 
repayments. But help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time 
comes, so I havent placed much reliance on this. And this was a guarantor 
mortgage, so if Mr and Mrs M defaulted on their repayments, Lloyds potentially 
couldve pursued their family member, who provided the guarantee, for the 
guaranteed mortgage amount. It was for Mr and Mrs M to choose whether they 
wanted PPI to safeguard their guarantors interests should they not be able to 
meet their mortgage repayments; 
I cant see that Mr and Mrs M were affected by any of the main limitations or 
restrictions in the policys terms and conditions, so I dont think having more 
information about these things wouldve put them off taking out the policy. They 
couldve benefitted from everything the policy offered; and
From what Ive seen, I think Lloyds set out the costs and benefits clearly. It was 
a
monthly paid policy and couldve been cancelled at any time without Mr and 
Mrs M losing out financially. The monthly payment didnt carry interest.Overall, I think Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M enough clear and fair information for them to 
decide whether they wanted to take PPI and they opted to do so.
Benefit split
Mr and Mrs M said the policy wasnt set up correctly as the benefit split shouldve been 
50/50. Ive seen their PPI application asking for the cover to be split equally between them, 
and the letter they were sent when the plan was first set up. That letter showed that the 
benefits were split 50/50. They said when they contacted Lloyds in 2009, they were told it 
was split differently. That may have been the case, but Im looking at the position at the time 
of sale, and it seems to me that the policy was set up appropriately, in the way they wanted it 
to be, with a 50/50 split. So, I cant see that Lloyds did anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman