DRN-3051662
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that British Gas Services Limited declined a claim under their home 
emergency policy. 
  
What happened
  Mr and Mrs H had a home emergency policy with BG, which they had held for around 21 
years. Over the years their central heating system had loss of pressure issues, which they 
reported to BG. 
Mr and Mrs H described that some of the radiator valves developed leaks which they 
believed was caused by the loss of pressure in the system. The leaks caused damage to 
their property. 
Mr and Mrs H contacted BG as they believed that had the engineers (who had previously 
balanced the radiators) picked up the leak in the valves, then the damage might not have 
happened. Following a call with a senior BG engineer, Mr and Mrs H said that BG told them 
to get a third-party to carry out the repair work. 
Mr and Mrs H engaged the services of an engineer to replace the leaking valves and paid 
£570 for this. Because of the damage caused to their property, they had to have some fitted 
furniture removed at a cost of £792. They also had to get some carpet cut away, that had 
become mould and moth infested, at a cost of £320.  Mr and Mrs H said that they will now 
need to replace the damaged carpets, which cost them £5618 in 2016, when they bought 
them new. Finally, some curtains were also damaged. Mr and Mrs H asked BG to reimburse 
their costs. 
In its final response, BG declined their claim on the basis that there was no link between the 
leaks and the last time it was called out (which was about a year earlier). It said that there 
could be no suggestion that it was their engineers who were responsible for the damage 
caused, based on their failure to pick up the leaks on previous visits. It also said that Mr and 
Mrs H had prejudiced their claim as they had replaced or repaired items, before it had had 
the opportunity to inspect them. 
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with this outcome and referred a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and ultimately upheld it. She said that BG 
couldnt disprove that it hadnt told Mr and Mrs H to carry out the work, so it was unfair for it 
to say that their claim had been prejudiced by carrying out the work. She said that she 
couldnt hold BG responsible for the damage to the property. But she recommended that BG 
pay compensation of £250 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept this outcome. They said that it wasnt right that BG year after 
year didnt resolve the problem and used contractors who couldnt identify issues with their 
system. They maintained that BG had been fully aware about the leaking valves, as the 
issue had been ongoing for a while. So, it was only fair that as it failed to identify and rectify 
the problems, it should be held accountable for the damage caused. They asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 30 July 2021. In my provisional decision I thought that Mr and Mrs H 
had shown that BG were fully aware of the leaking valves as this had been an ongoing 
issue. I also thought Mr and Mrs H had shown that BG had failed to identify and rectify the 
problem. I asked both parties to provide me anything else they wished me to consider by 29 
August 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
I have reviewed the policy documents and can see that Mr and Mrs H held a home 
emergency policy with BG for over 21 years, which covered (amongst other things) their 
central heating system. 
Mr and Mrs H describe water leaking from a few radiators in their home which they believed 
happened as a result of the loss of pressure in their central heating system. The main issue 
of this complaint is whether BG missed identifying that the leaking valves were the reason 
for the loss of pressure their system had. Which, then led to the damage that was caused to 
their property. 
BG said that it wasnt liable for the damage caused to Mr and Mrs Hs property, as it didnt 
agree that the servicing and balancing of the system wouldve caused several radiator 
valves to leak, unless there were unforeseen pre-existing faults with the system. 
I have considered the call out history and as far back as 2011, Mr and Mrs H have reported 
issues with loss of pressure from their system. I have also seen that there have been 
occasions when BG attended to repair and replace leaking valves. But I havent seen any 
evidence from BG that can disprove what Mr and Mrs H said. In that, there was a link 
between the loss of pressure and the valves leaking. All BG said was that there wasnt a link 
with no explanation as to why. 
The policy provides a service, replace or repair cover. BG explained this meant that its 
engineers didnt diagnose faults but only repaired, replaced or serviced systems. But having 
looked at the call out records I think that BG do diagnose faults because it advises 
customers if there is a need to replace any parts  just as it advised Mr and Mrs H to replace 
their boiler a few years ago. So, Im persuaded that BG ought to have identified whether the 
loss in pressure caused the valves to leak. 
BG said that the last occasion that Mr and Mrs H contacted BG was around a year earlier, so 
there was no link between the leaking valves and the damage caused. However, Mr and Mrs 
H provided evidence that they had told BG about the leaking valves and that they believed that this was the cause of the loss of pressure in the system. So, Im satisfied that BG were 
aware of this issue. Because of this, I dont think its reasonable that British Gas didnt take 
responsibility for the damage caused by the leaking radiator valves.
Mr and Mrs H said that BG told them in a call, to get a third party to carry out the repairs. On 
this advice, Mr and Mrs H did just that. However, BG later told them that they had prejudiced 
their claim:
We have also been advised that the radiator valves have been replaced by a third party and
disposed of before we could inspect them, resulting in you prejudicing your claim. Similarly, 
with regard to the property damage, we have been advised that the repairs to the property 
are also underway, again without us having been able to inspect the damage, and in doing 
so means you have prejudiced your claim.
BG have been unable to provide any evidence that it didnt tell Mr and Mrs H to get a third 
party to carry out the repairs. So, I dont think BG was fair to decline the claim after Mr and 
Mrs H followed the advice given. 
Overall, I think that BG didnt do enough to identify the issue with Mr and Mrs Hs system 
and because of this, damage was caused to their property. To put matters right, BG should 
reimburse Mr and Mrs Hs costs and pay for the damaged carpets. All on production of an 
invoice from Mr and Mrs H. 
I have also considered compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Our 
investigator recommended that BG should pay £250 and I think that is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs H didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
BG said that:
the decision to uphold the complaint was based on the acceptance of liability under 
the public liability insurance claim. It said that Mr and Mrs H were directed to contact 
their household insurers to make a claim. Those insurers would then follow their own 
processes for counter claiming against BG.
BG believed that our service didnt have the remit to consider matters relating to the 
damage. It also relied upon the terms and conditions of the policy that said that it 
wouldnt be responsible for any loss or damage caused by a system failing or 
breaking unless BG caused it.
BG asked whether Mr and Mrs H had mitigated their losses and whether the radiator 
valves that were leaking were ones previously replaced by BG. 
BG also said that moths preferred dry conditions, rather than damp and wet 
conditions. 
I have further reviewed the evidence given the responses received. 
Mr and Mrs H held a home emergency policy with BG for several years. They said that they 
had been in discussion with BG about the leaking valves, in which a senior engineer 
instructed them to use a third-party engineer to carry out repairs.  Proof of damage was later 
provided, and I have seen correspondence from Mr and Mrs H in which a senior BG 
engineer acknowledged and thanked them for providing evidence of the damage caused. I note that BG hasnt denied that discussions took place between them and Mr and Mrs H 
regarding the leaking valves. 
I asked Mr and Mrs H to clarify where the valves were located and whether they had been 
previously replaced by BG. They confirmed that the valves were the same valves that BG 
had replaced previously. One set of which had been replaced when a radiator was installed 
in 2019 but had continued to leak into 2020. The other valves had been in another bedroom 
and were behind some curtains that had also been damaged due to the leak. 
Mr and Mrs H provided photos of the damaged curtains, which BGs senior engineer 
acknowledged receipt of.  As well as the damaged carpets that had become mould and moth 
infested. Mr and Mrs H confirmed that the leak was a slow leak, which caused a damp area. 
BG has said that moths prefer dry conditions. But having reviewed this, their preferred 
habitat is damp and humid areas. Mr and Mrs H provided evidence of the moth infestation 
and Im satisfied that moths were present, given the damp conditions caused by the leak. 
Mr and Mrs H said that they had told BG that they believed that the loss of pressure in the 
system caused the valves to leak. Im satisfied that BG were aware of this issue and 
because of this, I dont think its reasonable that British Gas didnt take responsibility for the 
damage caused by the leaking radiator valves. 
BG said that the decision to uphold the complaint was based on the acceptance of liability 
under the public liability insurance and that Mr and Mrs H were directed to contact their 
home insurers for the damage. But I dont think its reasonable to expect a consumer to 
claim under a home insurance policy, when that consumer has a home emergency policy 
and has reasonably relied upon that policy to cover when a home emergency occurs. 
Accordingly, where a leak isnt identified and repaired (as in this complaint), I think that it is 
fair and reasonable for BG to be responsible for the consequential losses that Mr and Mrs H 
faced.   
Finally, BG felt that our service didnt have the remit to consider matters of damage, as this 
is best placed to be dealt with elsewhere. I have thought about what this means, and I am 
satisfied that this complaint is the usual home emergency complaint that our service would 
normally look at. Mr and Mrs H had a policy with BG to sort out any home emergency issues 
that arose, given that BG didnt do enough to identify and repair those issues, then I think 
that it should be responsible for the damage caused as a result. 
  
Putting things right
To put matters right, BG should reimburse Mr and Mrs Hs costs and pay for the damaged 
carpets. All on production of an invoice from Mr and Mrs H. 
I have also considered compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I am 
satisfied that there was a level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs H, 
especially as they mentioned the numerous calls, they had to make to BG to try and resolve 
the complaint. So, I think that compensation of £250, is fair in all the circumstances. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. To put matters right, British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse the following costs, on production of the invoices: 
£570  engineer costs for the installation of the new valves. 
£792  removal of fitted furniture.
£320  removal of moth and mould infested carpets.
£5618  replacement carpets.
British Gas Services Limited should also pay compensation of £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
British Gas Services Limited must pay all the above amounts within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr and Mrs H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
If British Gas Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman