DRN-3466692
The complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr I was given a credit card by Barclaycard in November 2017. The limit was £3,800 and 
this wasnt increased. Towards the end of 2020, minimum payments were around £80 per 
month, but at that time Mr I fell into financial difficulty and arrears started to build up. By 
March 2021, the arrears were £351.09, and in April 2021, the arrears were £432.29. 
Barclaycard sent Mr I a Notice of Default in May 2021 with the arrears at £515.52. The 
account was passed to Barclaycards collections department and a debt collection agency 
were engaged to monitor payments. Mr Is credit file was marked with missed payments and 
a default.
Mr I complained. He said that he shouldnt have been given a card in the first place, and 
Barclaycard didnt complete the necessary checks. He said Barclaycard had increased his 
limit without making sufficient checks. He also said Barclaycard hadnt offered him help 
when he was struggling. He didnt understand about the involvement of a debt collection 
agency. He said that they didnt handle his complaint effectively either.
Barclaycard apologised that theyd taken longer than normal to deal with Mr Is complaint 
and for that paid compensation of £100. They couldnt see why Mr I had complained about 
increases in his limit and asked him more questions about his complaint. 
Mr I brought his complaint to us in May 2021. Our investigator said Barclaycard hadnt acted 
reasonably. They shouldnt have given Mr I a limit of £3,800  based on the income and 
expenditure analysis they did at the time when the card was issued. This showed that Mr Is 
disposable income was only £76.30 each month, while the minimum payment was then 
£61.96. So  that was tight and left no margin for any problems that might occur. He said 
that interest and charges should be refunded from when the card was issued in 2017. And 
the default and missed payment markers should be removed from his credit file.
Barclaycard agreed with our investigators view and refunded interest of £946.85 and late 
payment charges of £24. They removed the adverse information from Mr Is credit file.
Mr I remained unhappy. He said he was confused about the involvement of a debt collection 
agency; and said the interest and charges refund didnt appear to be sufficient. And  he 
didnt know what his current balance was. He asked that an ombudsman look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I complains that:
He shouldnt have been given a card with a limit of £3,800 in the first place; and 
Barclaycard shouldnt have increased the limit subsequently. 
Barclaycard didnt give him any help or support when he needed it.
He didnt know what was going on in terms of the involvement of a debt collection 
agency.
He didnt think the refunds of interest and charges were sufficient and had paid more.
Barclaycard were slow to deal with his complaint.
While some of these aspects werent part of Mr Is initial complaint to us or Barclaycard, I will 
deal with them to try to be helpful to Mr I.
Credit card limit: All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We have to check 
whether Barclaycard acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on 
creditworthiness assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that 
a firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the 
risk to it of the customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of 
not being able to make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made.
Mr I was given a credit card in November 2017 with a limit of £3,800. He told Barclaycard he 
earnt £16,500 per annum; had monthly income of £1,208 with outgoings of £1,123. So that 
left disposable income of £76. The new minimum payment on the card was about £62  so 
while he could just afford to pay that, it didnt leave any room for any problems that might 
arise. And so  I agree with our investigator that on balance, Barclaycard shouldnt have 
given him a limit of £3,800. 
Increases in limit: Mr I says Barclaycard increased his limit  but I can see from their records 
that they didnt. So  I havent looked at this aspect any further.
Help and support: I can see that Mr I started to have problems in making payments to 
Barclaycard late in 2020. The payment due by 9 November 2020 was paid late; and the 
minimum payment due in December 2020 wasnt paid in full. Arrears started to build up then 
and subsequently. Barclaycard then wrote to Mr I to say he had missed payments and that 
arrears were increasing  on 20 December 2020 (arrears £82.03); 18 January 2021 
(£187.16); 15 February 2021 (£269.96); and 15 March 2021 (arrears £351.09). Mr I says 
Barclaycard didnt offer any help and Ive considered this. In the letters they sent, they asked Mr I to get in touch if he needed help. The letters said However, there are a number of ways 
we can help, so please let us know if youre ever struggling to make a payment  What are 
my options? If youre struggling to make a payment, there are a number of ways we could 
help. For example, a repayment arrangement could be set up to help clear the arrears on 
your account. We'll do our best to find a solution that works for you, so please call us on 
xxxxx.
The letters also gave contacts details for free debt advice organisations.
I cant see that Mr I contacted Barclaycard to ask for help or go through his situation with 
them. If he had, we would have expected Barclaycard to look at his income and expenditure, 
and his other debts and consider whether a payment plan, involving possibly an interest free 
period and lower or zero payments were appropriate. But  its only fair to say that Mr I 
needed to contact Barclaycard to ask for help in the first place. So  I think Barclaycard 
acted reasonably here.
Debt collection agency (DCA): Mr I has said hes confused about how a debt collection 
agency is involved. I looked at this. In Barclaycards Notice of Default dated 19 May 2021, it 
said We may pass your debt to a third party debt purchaser who will ask you directly to 
repay the outstanding balance. So  Barclaycard could pass Mr Is debt to a DCA to collect 
payments if they wished. We asked Barclaycard about this  and they confirmed that Mr Is 
debt hasnt been sold to a DCA; but they use a DCA to monitor payments and chase them 
up if theyre not made. So  Mr Is debt remains with Barclaycard at the present time. And so 
 he should make his payments to his Barclaycard account. But any discussions or 
negotiations about the debt should be with the DCA. I hope that makes things clearer for Mr 
I.
Interest and charges refund: we asked Barclaycard to check the refunded amounts and they 
confirmed they were accurate  and date back from when the card was issued to when the 
refunds were made in May 2022. They did this and confirmed the refunds to be accurate.
Barclaycards complaints process: Mr I says Barclaycard were slow to deal with his 
complaint. But Im afraid this isnt something we have the power to investigate. This service 
is governed by strict rules about what complaints we can, and cannot, look at. These are 
covered in The Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This defines a complaint as being 
about a financial product or service. So, complaints specifically about a businesss complaint 
handling or processes arent included. Mr Is concerns about Barclaycards response here 
are specifically about how they handled a complaint and replied to it, so  this aspect of Mr 
Is complaint isnt one we can look at. But I note that they did apologise to Mr I  and paid 
compensation of £100.
Putting things right
I agree that Barclaycard shouldnt have given Mr I a limit of £3,800 when they issued the 
card in November 2017. And so  this decision formalises what theyve already agreed to do 
 which is to refund the interest and charges from the issue of the card to the present time; 
and remove the adverse information from Mr Is credit file. I note that Barclaycard have already done this. I dont think Barclaycard need to do any more than that.
Mr Is debt in May 2022 was £3,109.34. His last payment was in June 2021. And so  the 
debt still needs to be dealt with by Mr I; and so I would encourage him to get in touch with 
the debt collection agency (who monitor his repayments) to agree a sensible payment plan 
going forward. Its important to say that this decision only says that Mr Is credit file has 
markers removed up to this moment in time  so if he was to not repay the debt, or stick to 
any agreed repayment plans in the future, then its only fair to say that the debt collection 
agency may take action against him. So  he must bear this in mind.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard must:
Refund interest and charges on Mr Is account from when it was opened to the date 
of this decision.
Remove adverse markers from Mr Is credit file from the date of opening Mr Is 
account to the date of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman