DRN-2964259
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has dealt 
with his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr G has a group income protection policy through his employer, underwritten by Aviva. This 
provides a benefit if Mr G is unable to work as a result of illness or injury. A claim was made 
and accepted by Aviva. Since 2018, Mr G has been working 15 hours a week and has been 
receiving a benefit for the hours hes unable to work. 
Aviva arranged to review the claim and in November 2020, an independent medical 
examination (IME) was carried out by a consultant in occupational medicine, who I will refer 
to as Dr X. She concluded that Mr G would be able to increase his hours from 15 to 20 per 
week but Mr G disagreed and complained. He explained why he thought Dr Xs report and 
opinion was wrong and Aviva responded to his complaint. However, despite the errors made 
by Dr X, it didnt think her opinion was wrong and so it reduced payment of Mr Gs benefit by 
5 hours. 
Unhappy, Mr G referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint but didnt think Avivas decision to reduce benefit was incorrect.
Mr G disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
His condition hasnt improved and so how could he be expected to increase his 
working week by a third
He had a second opinion done in February 2021 which said he should continue with 
15 hours 
The IME from 2018 and the second opinion from 2021 both show that Dr Xs report 
was incorrect
His health condition has worsened but Aviva has ignored this and hasnt requested 
his up to date medical records or another review 
He is now struggling to work 15 hours and has been signed off by his doctor. So he is 
unsure how he can increase his hours whilst he is signed off 
Aviva insisted on a report from Dr X and so a biased report was done 
Dr X has multiple complaints against her
Aviva should get further medical records and an updated report  it hasnt allowed for 
a phased increase in hours and has reduced his benefit even though he cant 
physically work
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying that my decision is limited to the complaints set out above. Im aware 
that Mr G raised a further complaint about a subject access request. If Mr G remains 
unhappy with the outcome of that complaint, that would need to be dealt with separately.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Ive seen that Aviva were paying a benefit to Mr G based on his ability to work 15 
hours a week. In late 2020, an independent medical examination was arranged by 
Aviva in which Dr X answered Avivas specific questions and found that Mr G 
remained fit to work on a part time basis and would now be fit to increase to 20 hours 
per week. If Mr G was able to achieve this successfully for a period of three to six 
months, he could then increase to 25 hours per week. She didnt believe he would be 
able to work beyond this. A copy of the full report was sent to Mr G.
Mr G was unhappy with the contents of the report and wrote back to Dr X. He 
explained what he disagreed with and what he thought was incorrect. Dr X 
responded and made some amendments. Mr G wrote again and complained to 
Aviva. He said Dr X had failed to note his medication accurately. 
Aviva investigated Mr Gs complaint and asked Dr X to clarify her notes about Mr Gs 
medication. Dr X accepted that she had made a mistake and clarified that this didnt 
change her opinion about the number of hours Mr G could now work. 
Mr G had provided Aviva with a copy of letter from a chiropractic doctor dated 
December 2020. This said Mr G was finding it difficult to carry out normal day to day 
activities and perform his occupation. 
Mr G also attended an occupational health assessment in February 2021 which 
confirmed that Mr G was working 15 hours over three days and that this was likely to 
be the case going forwards.
Aviva reviewed the above information and explained that the letter from December 
2020 didnt comment on Mr Gs ability to work any specific number of hours and the 
occupational health report from February 2021 was done by an occupational health 
physician. As the IME was completed by Dr X who was a consultant in occupational 
medicine, more weight would be given to that report. It also said the occupational 
health report didnt comment on Dr Xs findings or disprove them. 
Aviva told Mr G it would consider any further evidence he wished to provide but that 
this would have to come from a medical expert with the same level of qualifications 
as Dr X. And it would need to detail why it disagreed with Dr X - without this, Avivas 
position was unlikely to change. 
Having considered all of the above, I cant say Aviva has treated Mr G unfairly. Aviva 
is entitled to review a claim and request medical evidence or arrange an IME. It can 
rely on that opinion to make a decision about the amount of benefit payable. Im 
satisfied Avivas decision is based on the evidence available and I think it has also 
responded to Mr Gs complaint reasonably and has explained that it would consider 
any further evidence Mr G has  and has specified the evidence it would require for it 
to consider changing its opinion. Mr G has made a number of comments which I have considered carefully and in full. Ive 
summarised and addressed those comments which I consider to be key to my decision.
Mr Gs comments
His condition hasnt improved and so how could he be expected to increase his 
working week by a third
He had a second opinion done in February 2021 which said he should continue with 
15 hours 
The IME from 2018 and the second opinion from 2021 both show Dr Xs report was 
incorrect
His health condition has worsened but Aviva has ignored this and hasnt requested 
his up to date medical records or another review 
He is now struggling to work 15 hours and has been signed off by his doctor. So he is 
unsure how he can increase his hours whilst he is signed off 
I should start by saying that Aviva is entitled to carry out periodic reviews when a claim is in 
payment. In Mr Gs case, Dr X was instructed to examine and prepare a report based on the 
number of hours Mr X might be able to work. In Dr Xs opinion, she explained Mr G would be 
fit to increase his hours from 15 to 20 based on his current functional state at the time of the 
assessment. She commented that he had an excellent IT set up and the capacity to work 
flexibly. I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to rely on Dr Xs opinion on the basis of a 
fully detailed report and Mr Gs medical history of his condition. If Mr G didnt think he could 
increase his hours, he would need to provide medical evidence to support this. 
The second opinion from February 2021 was an occupational health report done by a doctor. 
This isnt as detailed as the IME by Dr X and Dr X is a consultant and so her report would be 
given more weight. In addition, the opinion didnt confirm whether Dr Xs report had been 
taken into account and why Mr G wasnt able to increase his hours. 
The report from 2018 was done two years before Dr Xs report and so Aviva would be 
entitled to request a new IME and rely on that.  I dont think Aviva has acted unreasonably by 
reviewing the claim and requesting a new IME.
Mr G also says that his condition has worsened and has provided sick notes to show that he 
has been signed off by his GP. However, Mr G would need to provide this evidence to Aviva 
as I can only consider the information Aviva had available at the time. Im satisfied that Aviva 
acted reasonably based on the information available to it. In addition, Aviva has explained 
what Mr G needs to provide in order for it to reassess his claim. And I think that is 
reasonable. 
Aviva insisted on a report from Dr X and so a biased report was done 
Dr X has multiple complaints against her
Aviva should get further medical records and an updated report  it hasnt allowed for 
a phased increase in hours and has reduced his benefit even though he cant 
physically work
Aviva explained Dr X was chosen as a result of her specialism in occupational medicine. 
Although Mr G says Dr X has multiple complaints against her, Aviva arent responsible for 
this and wouldnt necessarily be aware of any complaints at the point they instructed her. In 
addition Aviva has confirmed to Mr G that it reviews and monitors information about all the 
consultants it uses and it didnt have any concerns. It explained that complaints can often be 
raised if a patient isnt happy with the conclusion in a report. I think Avivas explanation here is reasonable and Im satisfied it took Mr Gs concerns into account and responded to them 
appropriately by giving him reassurances.
Aviva also explained that any further medical report would now need to be provided by Mr G 
from a medical professional with at least the same qualifications as Dr X. It confirmed that if 
Mr G attempted an increase in hours but this proved to be unsuccessful, Aviva would 
undertake a further review. I dont think Aviva has adopted an unreasonable position here. 
And so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman