DRN-3162141
The complaint
Miss P is a sole trader. She complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed her bank 
accounts and refused her request for a Bounce Back Loan despite initially approving it.
What happened
Miss P was a personal customer of NatWest and opened a business account with the bank 
in June 2020. 
On 9 August, Miss P applied to NatWest for a Bounce Back Loan of £48,500. Later that day, 
the bank sent a loan agreement to Miss P having approved the application  but shortly 
afterward, it reversed the decision and terminated the loan before any funds were drawn 
down.
NatWest wrote to Miss P on 12 August to say that it had undertaken a review of her banking 
arrangements and decided to withdraw its services. It said it would be closing all of her 
accounts in 14 days time.
Miss P complained but NatWest maintained its decision to close Miss Ps accounts and said 
it couldnt disclose any further details. It also said the Bounce Back Loan application ought 
not to have been approved and apologised for any confusion this had caused. 
Miss P remained unhappy and referred her complaint to us. She said that the sudden 
closure of her accounts, for which the bank hadnt provided any reason, had left her unable 
to run her business. She said she had no other accounts through which to make or receive 
payments and that while the bank held the account balances, shed had to stop working and 
borrow money from relatives. She wanted NatWest to reinstate her accounts and reconsider 
her request for a Bounce Back Loan.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ps complaint but didnt think NatWest had done 
anything wrong. She thought the banks decisions had been reasonable and that it had 
closed all the accounts in accordance with the applicable terms and conditions. And while it 
was understandable that Miss P wanted to know the banks rationale, it wasnt required to 
disclose this.
As Miss P didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
The Bounce Back Loan application
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, lenders were expected to carry out 
certain checks, including anti-money laundering, Know Your Customer and fraud checks. 
Miss Ps application failed these checks, so it was right that NatWest ultimately declined to 
provide her the loan shed requested. Having reviewed the information on which the bank 
based its decision, I think it was reasonable. 
As Miss P should not have received the loan in the first place, I think it was reasonable for 
NatWest to terminate the agreement. This was allowed for under the terms and conditions. 
And Ive not seen that Miss P suffered a loss in any way as a result of the incorrect approval, 
particularly as the decision was reversed swiftly and funds werent drawn down or utilised. 
The closure of Miss Ps accounts
NatWest explained that following a review of Miss Ps accounts, it decided that it no longer 
wished to offer its services to her. This was a decision it was entitled to make. And under the 
banks terms and conditions, it is entitled to close an account immediately in certain 
circumstances. Im satisfied that it was reasonable to do so here, although note that the bank 
provided Miss P with 14 days notice, giving her time to make alternative arrangements. 
I understand that Miss P would be frustrated by the lack of explanation as to NatWests 
reasons, but its not required to disclose any more information than it already has  and it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require that it do so.
Miss P also says that NatWest retained the money held in her accounts, which caused her 
difficulty in running her business. And I can see there was some delay in arranging the 
transfer of Miss Ps closing balances  the accounts were closed in August 2020 but funds 
werent released until April 2021. But I dont think thats down to an error on the banks part. 
NatWest explained when notifying Miss P of its decision that she needed to complete and 
return a form along with appropriately certified identification documents. I cant see that the 
bank received this until March, and thereafter released the funds in a reasonable timeframe. 
I understand that these matters had a significant impact on Miss P and her business. But as 
Ive set out above, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in declining her request for a 
Bounce Back Loan or closing her accounts. So there is no basis on which I can require it to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman