DRN-3842158
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about the problems she experienced when trying to access her ISA 
account which had been transferred to ITI Capital Limited (ITI) from a previous business. 
Mrs P experienced delays and frustration in trying to transfer her ISA account away from ITI 
to another platform provider. Mrs P has also complained about ITIs failure to address her 
complaint.
What happened
Mrs P had an ISA account which was held with a previous firm that had gone into 
administration and was transferred over to ITI in July 2020.
ITI emailed Mrs P on 13 July 2020 and explained that she should be able to access her ITI 
account using temporary login details which would be issued to her. Mrs P experienced 
problems accessing her account/changing her password and in August 2020 decided to 
transfer it to another platform provider which I shall refer to as Company B in my decision.
Company B informed ITI of the transfer request on 5 August 2020 and ITI confirmed to Mrs 
P receipt of the transfer request from Company B on 8 September 2020. It explained what 
would happen  Company B would agree to the transfer and confirm this with ITI, ITI and 
Company B would agree transfer dates and ITI would deliver the holdings to Company B. It 
said it would respond to all requests or agreements with Company B within 24 hours.
Mrs P experienced delays during the transfer of her account and it wasnt until 23 November 
2020 that the last of her shareholdings was transferred and 27 January 2021 that Company 
B confirmed receipt of the final cash transfer from ITI.
Mrs P complained to ITI on 5 September 2020 and at the time of bringing her complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman in May 2022, hadnt received any response. It did however email 
her as it had not responded within eight weeks to her complaint as it should have done. In 
August/September 2021 it said would be paying Mrs P £50 for this delay over and above any 
compensation that may be paid.
To put the matter right Mrs P would like for ITI to pay her the £50 it promised in its emails of 
12 August and 20 September 2021, pay compensation for the upset and inconvenience she 
has been caused and provide her with a proper closing statement of her ISA account.
Our investigator who considered Mrs Ps complaint thought that it should be upheld. He said;
He couldnt consider anything prior to Mrs Ps account being transferred to ITI. ITI 
wasnt responsible for anything before then.
Mrs P had been sent her account login details by email and she wasnt satisfied this 
was secure. But he couldnt see that Mrs P had been adversely affected by this or 
that it had formed part of a data breach.
He acknowledged that Mrs P did experience problems accessing her account and 
when she asked for support from ITI wasnt responded to quickly. Overall Mrs P 
didnt receive good customer service while she was with ITI  from July 2020 to 
when she raised her complaint in September. This caused her an unacceptable level 
of distress and inconvenience.
Mrs Ps account was being transferred in specie but there shouldnt have been any 
reason it couldnt be completed within the 30-day HMRC guidelines.
ITI was trying to transfer accounts in bulk, no doubt in an effort to be more efficient 
but took longer. Company B tried to chase for the transfer, but it took nearly 14 
weeks for the shares to be transferred and the final cash payment  which was a 
Euro transfer to Sterling  took five months which was a long time.
Mrs Ps concerns werent responded to and the level of involvement from Company B 
and Mrs P in chasing ITI was significant and would have been an inconvenience to 
her.
He recommended that Mrs P be paid £250 for the distress and inconvenience she 
had been caused as well as 8% interest on the cash that was transferred on 27 
January 2021. And if ITI hadnt already done so, it should send Mrs P a statement of 
account.
In response to the investigator Mrs P was pleased that it was upheld but said;
She was disappointed with the level of compensation for distress and inconvenience 
especially if the £250 included the £50 already promised by ITI.
She referred to other decisions on our website and the awards we give.
She explained that she continued to have problems changing her password on the 
account once she had logged into it.
She asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
Our investigator summarised for Mrs P why he had reached the distress and inconvenience 
figure that he did;
Mrs Ps account remained in specie  she was never out of the market and could 
have traded if she had wanted to.
The in-bulk transfer meant that an overall agreed timetable was worked to rather than 
on an individual basis.
ITI couldnt be held responsible for the impact of the previous business going into 
administration.
Each case brought to the Financial Ombudsman was considered on its own merits. 
And this service couldnt look into complaints about complaint handling.
Mrs P still remained unhappy;
She detailed the timeline of the ISA transfer plus her own and Company Bs 
involvement in that.
She didnt think the investigator had taken into account the wasted time and 
frustration she had experienced in ITI failing to respond to her complaint before June 
2021.
She wanted clarification of whether the £250 recommended by the investigator 
included the £50 promised by ITI which was for ITIs failure in responding to her 
complaint. The investigator responded to the points raised by Mrs P and confirmed that the £250 
included the £50 already offered by ITI. Mrs Ps comments didnt cause the investigator to 
change his mind.
ITI agreed with the investigator and calculated the interest payment of £7.27, so a total of 
£257.27.
Mrs P provided a final submission for my consideration and that she would accept an offer 
by ITI of £500. She reiterated her complaint points and said;
During an in specie transfer she said she was out of the market during the transfer 
period, being unable to trade and without access to their cash funds. Shareholdings 
are in limbo between the two platforms.
ITI ignored standard timeframes relating to transfers.
She was told by ITI the award of £50 was for a breach of its regulatory obligation and 
separate from any other awards.
Mrs P referred to other distress and inconvenience awards given in similar 
circumstances, information about assessing complaints on our website regarding the 
time and effort it had taken her to try and resolve her complaint and a forum she had 
been using.
The investigator put the Mrs Ps suggested offer of settlement to ITI but didnt receive a 
response.
As the complaint remained unresolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision explaining that I intended on upholding the complaint but with potentially 
a different conclusion as to how the matter should be put right. But I asked both parties to 
give me anything that they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres 
what I said; 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator and 
provisionally Im going to uphold the complaint. I dont think ITI has behaved 
reasonably however I think the £250 compensation recommended is broadly fair and 
reasonable, but I comment on this further in my decision.
I very much recognise Mrs Ps strength of feeling about her complaint. Its very clear 
she is, and has been, extremely frustrated and stressed by the process. Ive 
considered the submissions she has made very carefully. And I hope she wont think 
I am being discourteous by not addressing all of the points she has made in any 
great detail. Ive kept my focus in this decision on the core matters to the complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I should also clarify that in this decision I cannot comment on Mrs Ps account prior to 
its transfer to ITI by the joint administrator after the previous business went into 
administration. I will only be considering ITIs actions.
The ISA transferAs outlined above, Mrs P instructed Company B to transfer her ISA away from ITI on 
5 August 2020 and Company B instructed ITI on the same day. However, the transfer 
of the last of the shareholdings wasnt completed until 23 November 2020 and the 
final cash transfer wasnt completed until 27 January 2021.
HMRC guidelines are that a stocks and shares ISA transfer should complete within 
30 days and clearly that didnt happen here.
Mrs P has said she wasnt able to trade or access her cash during the in-specie 
transfer. But I havent seen any evidence of specific trades Mrs P wished to make or 
any other actions she wanted to carry out but was stopped from doing so by actions 
or omissions of ITI.
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to make an award for Mrs Ps 
assertion that she couldnt trade when I havent seen any evidence that this was 
something she tried to do but was prevented from doing so. But I do appreciate 
though the delays she experienced must have been very frustrating for her and no 
doubt she was caused worry while her shareholdings were in limbo.
The cash transfers
However, I do think Mrs P should be awarded interest for the time she was out of 
pocket for the cash on account. ITIs own guidelines are that cash payments should 
be made within two days of request. Mrs P requested the transfer on 5 August 2020, 
but I see that the first transfer of cash wasnt made until 15 October 2020 and the 
second and final transfer on 26 January 2021.
Mrs P should receive interest at a rate of 8% simple from two days after her initial 
request  so 7 August 2020  to the date the cash sums were transferred to 
Company B  15 October 2020 and 26 January 2021.
For the sums that were credited to Mrs Ps ITI account after the main cash transfer 
date of 15 October 2020  the dividends  and later paid to Company B, interest at 
the same rate should be applied to those amounts from two days after receipt by ITI 
to the date of transfer to Company B.
The award for distress and inconvenience
The investigator recommended that ITI pay Mrs P £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience she had suffered. And he said to Mrs P that it would include the £50 
that had previously been offered by ITI in respect of it not responding to her 
complaint within the regulatory eight-week time limit.
My understanding is that offer, made prior to Mrs P bringing her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman hasnt been paid to her. But that offer of £50 was for the 
handling of Mrs Ps complaint and as explained by the investigator is not something 
this service can consider. So, its not right for this service to comment one way or 
another about that offer as it was awarded by ITI for something I cant consider.
Any award I make is for the complaint as it is put to me, taking into account what I 
can and cant consider. And as I cannot consider any complaint about complaint 
handling, I cannot comment on the offer for that aspect of Mrs Ps complaint. The 
award I am provisionally recommending is for the aspects of the complaint that I can 
consider  the delays and inconvenience etc that Mrs P experienced in her dealings 
with ITI about her ISA account and its transfer to Company B.Mrs P referred to other decisions that had been issued by the Financial Ombudsman 
and the compensation that had been awarded to other complainants in which she 
thinks are similar circumstances to her. However, I know that Mrs P appreciates that 
every case is different. And as mentioned above, each case is considered on its own 
particular merits and in the individual circumstances of that complaint.
I do think Mrs P should receive a payment for the considerable frustration she has 
been caused during the transfer process. Ive carefully considered Mrs Ps points and 
I am aware she feels strongly about her complaint. But I have also borne in mind our 
long-standing approach awards for distress caused. Taking all of the above into 
account, I think the £250 as recommended by the investigator is a fair reflection of 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs P. And ITI has agreed to this.
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider 
that went into administration. But I think its likely that the new additional accounts 
and investments will have had an impact on ITIs capacity and ability to deal with new 
customers and increased requests. And it seems evident there were some IT issues.
Company B was also nominee custodians for another financial business which was 
also receiving transfer out requests from ITI customers. And I note ITI was trying to 
complete a bulk net transfer for multiple clients, but Company B wasnt able to accept 
a net valuation from ITI for all of the clients on Company Bs list. I do accept that ITIs 
actions were no doubt an attempt to be more efficient in the transfer process of a 
large number of requests but this meant that Mrs P didnt receive the individual 
responses and attention that she should have reasonably expected to receive.
In any relationship between a consumer and a business there are always 
opportunities for errors or misunderstandings. And it is how a business responds to 
that that is important and despite Mrs Ps evident frustration, I dont think ITI intended 
to cause this. ITI told us that the reason for the transfer delay was due to the backlog 
of transfers it had at the time. I think it was working under stretched circumstances 
which resulted in Mrs P not receiving the timely and efficient service that she should 
have done.
In conclusion I said that ITI should pay Mrs P £250 for the delays, frustration and 
inconvenience she was caused. I also said that Mrs P should receive 8% simple interest per 
year on the cash transfers that were delayed. And if ITI hadnt already done so, it should 
provide Mrs P with a statement of her ISA account over the period it was with ITI. 
Mrs P responded to my provisional decision by saying she thought the £250 award was too 
low. She made further points;
The selection of ITI to manage these accounts  after the previous business went 
into administration  was questionable. ITI was ill-prepared to administer the number 
of customers involved. 
Prior to the transfer to ITI customers of the previous failed business hadnt been able 
to access their account for over ten months. ITI was given some additional time to 
make arrangement as to its capacity and abilities to deal with the workload. ITIs 
actions or inactions should be considered in the light of this. 
Mrs P agreed that she had not provided any evidence that she wished to trade during 
the period her shareholdings were in limbo. Mrs P didnt know how long she would 
remain in limbo and had no way of knowing when ITI would deal with the transfer of 
her shareholdings. As I couldnt consider the element about the complaint handling, she asked how she 
could obtain the £50 promised by ITI. 
Mrs P was disgruntled as she couldnt reconcile the award of £250 with other 
decisions issued against ITI by the Financial Ombudsman. She referred to other 
examples and that ITI hadnt even responded to her 29 messages and emails. 
Any interest payable on the delayed cash transfers should only run from                    
3 September 2020. 
She wanted clarification as to whether interest would also be payable on the delay in 
the dividends being credited to her. 
She wanted to ensure that the direction I gave in my final decision allowed for full 
details of ITIs calculations of interest to be determined. And, that any compensation 
should be paid within 28 days of acceptance of the decision. 
ITI should provide a tax deduction certificate if it were to deduct any tax on any 
interest if paid. She also wanted a specific confirmation that ITI had closed her 
account and a proper final closing statement. 
In the meantime, I made further contact with Mrs P as I wanted to reconsider how I could 
more accurately put things right with regard to the 8% simple interest I provisionally thought 
she should be paid on any delayed cash transfer. So, I asked if she had taken any action 
with that money or had intended to. In her response Mrs P said;
She hadnt taken any action with her shareholdings or cash during the transfer of her 
ISA as she didnt want to jeopardise the tax benefits. She hadnt taken any action 
during the transfer process with previous ISA transfers she had carried out but this 
one had taken significantly longer. Once the funds were received by Company B 
most of the funds were invested within a month and she hadnt held a cash balance 
of anywhere near £4,000 since.
Mrs P again highlighted the awards this service had made for distress and 
inconvenience and that if ITI hadnt intending on causing such evident frustration 
why did it not respond to any of the correspondence she had sent or addressed her 
complaint. She would have been better off bringing her complaint direct to the 
Financial Ombudsman rather than her trying to resolve matters with ITI in the first 
instance. 
ITI didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ITI hasnt given me anything further for me to consider. 
While I appreciate the frustration Mrs P must have experienced during the ten months she 
couldnt access her account after the previous business had gone into administration but that 
is not something I can consider in this decision. That was prior to ITI being responsible for 
Mrs Ps account. And also, I cant comment on the decision that was made to select ITI to 
manage those accounts. 
With regard to the £50 already offered by ITI but not yet paid to Mrs P for the lack of 
response to her complaint, that is something she will have bring up with ITI. It was an award 
offered by ITI for its lack of dealing with her complaint as it should have done. As it relates to 
complaint handling it is not something I can comment on. What I can consider though is how Mrs P was treated after her account was transferred to 
ITI and if appropriate, how I can put that right. 
Mrs P had confirmed that she cant evidence that she tried to take any action with her ISA 
account during the transfer process but was prevented from doing so by ITI. Mrs P said she 
hadnt tried to take any action during previous ISA transfers she had carried out, but I fully 
appreciate the comment Mrs P has made that this transfer took a lot longer than expected. 
As mentioned above, I did refer back to Mrs P reconsider how I could more accurately put 
things right. I wanted to know if she was waiting on the transfer to her new provider to invest 
the cash and whether the delay had affected her financially. 
The main cash transfer was just over £4,500 on 15 October 2020  some two months after 
Mrs Ps original request.  on 5 August. And the final cash transfer of £230.34 was received 
on 27 January 2021. Mrs P told us she invested the funds within one month of that final 
receipt.
While I accept that Mrs P told us she did reinvest the funds received within a month of the 
receipt of the final cash balance of £234.34 in January 2021, but Mrs P had already been in 
receipt of the significant majority of her cash - £4,597.40  from 15 October. So, she held 
those funds for three months or so prior to investing them in around February 2021 when 
she could have invested them earlier if she had wanted to. 
So, from what Ive seen, I dont think there is any evidence that Mrs P formed a firm intention 
to carry out any particular transactions on her account during the period of ITIs delay. So, I 
do not think it would be fair or reasonable to make an award for her not having been able to 
carry out particular trades. Mrs P could have invested the majority of her funds sooner than 
February 2021 if she had wanted to. So, I havent seen enough to conclude that its more 
likely than not the result would have been trades or changes to her portfolio of a kind from 
which she would most likely have profited. So, I make no award for interest.
The investigator who considered the complaint recommended that ITI pay Mrs P 8% on the 
cash transfer of £230.34  the dividends/Euro conversion to Sterling  from 30 days after the 
transfer request to the date of receipt. ITI has already agreed to do this so I make no further 
comment other than as outlined in my provisional decision that the interest ITI has agreed to 
pay should be calculated from two days after receipt of the transfer request (or two days 
after receipt of the dividend by ITI, if later) to the date it was received by Company B on     
27 January 2021 (not 26 January 2021 as referred to in my provisional decision).  
With reference to the award for distress and inconvenience of £250 Mrs P has said that if ITI 
hadnt intending on causing such evident frustration why did it not address her complaint. 
However, ITI has already acknowledged that it had not respond within eight weeks to her 
complaint as it should have done, hence the offer it has already made of £50. But I do 
appreciate that Mrs P has consistently said that I should make a higher award than £250 and 
has referred to other final decisions made by the Financial Ombudsman. 
I recognise  and dont underestimate  Mrs Ps strength of feeling about her complaint. Its 
very evident how frustrated she was in not being able to log on and how long Mrs P waited 
to get an answer to be able to access the portal and then not being able to change her 
password. Plus, the lack of responses from ITI and the delays in getting the shares and cash 
transferred to her.
Mrs P made her transfer request on 5 August 2020. The majority of her shares (13 out of 16) 
were transferred on 8 October. This was as a result of a bulk net transfer of around 200 clients which as Ive mentioned above was in an attempt by ITI to be more efficient. Two 
more shares were transferred on 13 October and the final share transfer was on 23 
November. ITI has said the delay caused to Mrs P was because of a backlog in transfer 
requests so Im satisfied its attempt at the bulk transfer was to improve that backlog albeit 
not resulting in the more speedy and personalised service Mrs P was due.  
The majority of Mrs Ps cash was also received around two months after Mrs Ps transfer 
request. So, while the transfer as a whole wasnt completed until early 2021 Mrs P did have 
control of the majority of her assets with her new provider around two months after her 
transfer request. But I do recognise that chasing for the remaining cash and shares must 
have been worrying and frustrating.
And I do accept that Mrs P was also considerably frustrated by other aspects during the 
transfer and in particular, ITI not responding to her questions and not addressing her 
complaint as it should have done. However, Mrs P is aware that each complaint is 
considered on its own merits and taking all of the above into account I remain of the opinion 
that £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs P is the right amount in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
So, to put the matter right, ITI Capital Limited should pay Mrs P £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience she has been caused. And as already agreed by ITI, it should also pay 
interest on the final cash payment made to Mrs P  £230.34  but to be calculated from two 
days after receipt of the transfer request (or two days after receipt of the dividends by ITI, if 
later) to the date it was received by Company B on 27 January 2021. ITI should provide 
details of its calculations as requested by Mrs P. 
If ITI Capital Limited doesnt pay Mrs P the sum above within one month of receiving from us 
notification of Mrs Ps acceptance of my decision, ITI Capital Limited should also pay Mrs P 
simple interest on the sum at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my decision until the 
date ITI Capital Limited pays my award.
If ITI considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs P. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
If it hasnt already done so, ITI should provide Mrs P with a statement of her ISA account 
covering the period it was with ITI from which she can ascertain the account is closed.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold the complaint and ITI Capital Limited should put 
matter right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman