DRN-2629242
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Wilson Tarquin Limited (WT) and the settlement fees shes been 
charged after they made successful claims for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) 
on her behalf.
What happened
In February 2018, Mrs M instructed WT to make PPI claims against several lenders. She 
signed a Letter of Engagement (LOE) and several Letters of Authority (LOA) at the time. WT 
were successful with a claim against Lender M, and invoiced Mrs M for their fee.
Mrs M was unhappy with size of the fee as it equated to 48% inclusive of VAT of the refund 
she received. By this time, a fee cap of 24% inclusive of VAT had been imposed by the 
regulator of the industry at the time. So, WT agreed to reduce their fee to 36% inclusive of 
VAT, and Mrs M paid this towards the end of 2018.
In August 2019, Mrs M signed a new LOA which authorised WT to submit a new claim 
against Lender S. This was the first time Mrs M had provided WT any authority to act on this 
claim. WT were successful in obtaining a PPI refund and invoiced Mrs M for their fee in early 
2020. This fee was 36% inclusive of VAT of the refund Mrs M received. But Mrs M didnt 
think this was fair as the fee cap had been in place when she signed the new LOA. So, she 
paid the amount of 24% inclusive of VAT. WT explained they expected full payment of their 
total fee and advised they would start debt collection activity if this wasnt received. Mrs M 
then paid to remainder of WTs initial fee but raised a complaint.
Mrs M thought WTs fee was excessive. She explained a fee cap had been in place for over 
a year, so she didnt think it was fair for WT to invoice her for a fee larger than this. She was 
also unhappy with WTs threat of debt collection. So, she wanted the difference between the 
24% and 36% fees refunded to her.  
WT didnt agree. They thought the agreement Mrs M entered into with them was signed in 
February 2018, before a fee cap was introduced. And they thought they 36% inclusive of 
VAT they negotiated in November 2018 was made clear to Mrs M and thought it was 
reasonable for her to assume this would still be the case for any other claims she wanted to 
make. As Mrs M had returned to them to make the claim against Lender S, rather than use 
another company, they thought they were fair to charge her the fee of 36% inclusive of VAT. 
So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mrs M remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld. She thought WT acted fairly when 
charged Mrs M the full fee for her claim against Lender M as the LOA and LOE were signed 
before the fee cap was introduced. But she didnt think this was the case for Lender S. She 
thought as Mrs M had signed a LOA for Lender S in August 2019, some time after the fee 
cap was introduced, WT hadnt acted fairly or reasonably when charging a fee which was 
above the fee cap. So, she thought WT should refund Mrs M the difference between the 
24% fee cap amount and the 36% fee shed already paid plus 8% statutory interest from the 
date she made the final payment to the date of refund.
Mrs M agreed with this view. But WT didnt. They reinforced their opinion that the agreement 
Mrs M entered into was signed in early 2018, before the fee cap. And they thought she was 
aware of this, and the fact a fee cap was put in place. So, they thought they were fair to 
charge the 36% inclusive of VAT fee and didnt think they needed to do anything more. As 
WT didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Im aware WT didnt agree with our investigators initial view and referred to the terms and 
conditions of the agreement that was signed. Ive seen the agreement explains WTs fee as 
48% inclusive of VAT. And Im aware this was negotiated down to 36% inclusive of VAT at 
the end of 2018. I dont think its disputed that this was the only LOE signed, so I can 
understand why WT think these terms are applicable when deciding what fee should be 
charged for the work they completed in 2019. This is something Ive considered as I would 
expect WT to work within the terms of the agreement. But, as well as considering the terms 
of an agreement, as a service we also consider whether it was fair and reasonable for a 
business to rely upon them. And crucially, in this situation I dont think it was.
Mrs M signed a LOA authorising WT to make a claim against Lender S in August 2019. This 
LOA doesnt make any reference to the fee WT would charge Mrs M. But as WT said, the 
LOA provides them with authority to act as Mrs Ms representative and it isnt the same as 
an LOE. So, I dont think it necessarily needed to contain this information.
But this was the first document Mrs M signed after the fee cap had been introduced. And 
Mrs M has explained she assumed any claims made after the fee cap was introduced would 
have any fee limited to that amount. Although I have considered WTs comments about the 
negotiation in fee in November 2018, I dont think this was an unreasonable assumption for 
Mrs M to make. The negotiation for the first successful claim was agreed as the LOA for the 
claim against Lender M was signed before the fee cap, not after. I dont think this meant Mrs 
M shouldve expected this 36% inclusive of Vat fee would be applicable to any future claims.
The guidance issued by the Claims Management Regulator (CMR) who introduced the fee 
cap explains clearly that a business shall act fairly and reasonably in dealings with all 
clients. And in this situation, as it had been a substantial amount of time since the original 
LOE was signed and the first claim had been settled and concluded, I think WT shouldve 
made it reasonably clear to Mrs M that they intended to charge the fee higher than the cap if 
she signed the LOA. And I dont think they did.
As Mrs M hadnt asked WT to look into a claim against Lender S before August 2019, I think 
it was reasonable for her to assume she was making a new claim that would be subject to 
the cap that was in place. And as all of the work WT completed to secure the PPI refund was 
done after the fee cap was introduced, I dont think WT have acted fairly when charging Mrs 
M a fee higher than the 24% inclusive of VAT.
Putting things right
As I dont think WT have acted fairly, Ive then thought about what I think they should do to put things right. Had WT acted fairly, I think they wouldve made Mrs M aware that by signing 
the LOA, their fee would be 36% inclusive of VAT. And Mrs M wouldve been able to 
consider this and decide whether she wanted to use another company who would charge 
her a fee in line with the cap that was introduced.
And having considered Mrs Ms testimony and her unhappiness with the fee, I think on the 
balance of probability, its likely this is what she wouldve done. And in that situation, I think 
shed have received the same refund from Lender S but only paid 24% inclusive of VAT as a 
fee.
Its not in dispute that WT completed the work on Mrs Ms behalf. So, they are entitled to 
claim a fee for the work theyve done. But I think this should be reduced to the amount of 
24% inclusive of VAT to fall in line with what I think Mrs M wouldve paid.
Im aware Mrs M has already paid the 36% inclusive of VAT amount. So, I think WT should 
refund the difference to Mrs M. And as I think shes been without the money unfairly, I think 
WT should also pay Mrs M 8% statutory interest on this amount, from the day she paid the 
final amount to meet WTs 36% inclusive of VAT fee, to the date its refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Wilson Tarquin Limited 
and direct them to take the following action:
Refund Mrs M the difference between the amount shes paid WT and the amount she 
wouldve paid if their fee had been 24% inclusive of VAT.
Pay Mrs M 8% statutory interest from the date WTs 36% inclusive of VAT fee was 
fully paid to the date the refund is issued.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman