DRN-2457526
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society sent him a letter in error saying his 
account was overdrawn.
What happened
During early 2020, Mr M asked for his account with Nationwide to be transferred to another 
bank. Nationwide began the process, but this led to Mr M receiving a letter from them saying 
that the account was overdrawn £500. This caused Mr M great concern. He didnt believe 
this was the case, so he called Nationwide in March 2020.
Nationwide looked in to the circumstances of his complaint. They confirmed that his account 
wasnt overdrawn. They explained that the letter had been sent as a result of a computer 
system problem. They said that it was a known problem that they were trying to resolve. Mr 
M asked that the issue be raised as a formal complaint. He felt that he should receive 
compensation for the inconvenience and stress caused.
Nationwide looked in to Mr Ms complaint and apologised for the error. They also explained 
why this happened and offered a compensation payment of £50. Mr M accepted the apology 
but was not happy with the compensation amount. Nationwide said they werent willing to 
increase the compensation amount. So, Mr M decided to refer his complaint to this Service.
The complaint has been reviewed by one of our investigators. Based upon the information 
provided by Nationwide and Mr M, the investigator said that an error had been made here 
but did not agree that the amount of compensation should be increased. Mr M has asked 
that his case be referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms worry and frustration here. I have looked at the bank statements 
provided by Nationwide covering the period referred to. It is clear that, at no point, was the 
account overdrawn. Therefore, I can see no reason why Nationwide should have written to 
Mr M to say that his account was overdrawn.
 
Nationwide have now confirmed that the letter should not have been sent. They also 
confirmed that this was as a result of a computer system problem that they were aware of.
While its fortunate that Mr M wasnt financially impacted by this mistake and that it didnt 
have an impact on moving his account elsewhere  its clear it would have been very 
worrying for him.
Having looked at Nationwides notes relating to the complaint together with their letters to Mr 
M, they have apologised for the error and explained the nature of the problem clearly. They 
have also made a compensation payment of £50 to recognise their error and the 
inconvenience caused to Mr M. It is also clear that Nationwide are taking steps to make sure 
that similar mistakes do not happen again.
 
Overall, I think thats a fair resolution to this complaint. I realise the compensation wont be 
as high as Mr M may have expected and that he feels hes due more than this. But I think 
that amount is fair to reflect the worry and confusion caused by Nationwides letter and is 
consistent with what wed expect a business to offer in circumstances such as these. In the 
circumstances I dont think I can fairly tell Nationwide that it needs to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
David Morgan
Ombudsman