DRN-3427782
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has declined to reimburse the money hes lost to a 
scam.
Whats happened?
Mr F has fallen victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. He says that he looked for 
investment opportunities online and came across a company Ill refer to as (G). He had no 
prior trading or investment experience, but his research showed that G had featured on 
popular television shows, had celebrity customers and had received lots of positive reviews. 
A charismatic investment manager contacted him and even sent Mr F a photograph of 
himself. The investment manager persuaded Mr F to invest £250 initially and gave him 
access to a live portal which he could use to keep track of his investments and profits. 
Seeing his investments grow gave Mr F confidence and, over time, he was convinced to 
invest more money.
In August and September 2020, six debit card payments were made. Mr F says that the 
investment manager made the payments on his behalf after he gave him remote access to 
his laptop, and he didnt realise they were debit card payments. 
Mr F was then advised to open a genuine third-party bank account and pay funds into it that 
would be invested with G. He was told that the third-party account would assist the flow of 
money and enable him to invest larger amounts. Between September and November 2020, 
four faster payments were paid into the third-party account through online and telephone 
banking and the investment manager moved Mr Fs funds on from there. Full details of the 
debit card payments and faster payments are set out in the table below.
Date of 
transactionType of 
transactionAmount of 
transactionCurrency of 
transactionTransaction fee
13 August 2020 Debit card 
payment£2,427.36 EUR £66.75
28 August 2020 Debit card 
payment£2,193.24 USD £60.31
1 September 
2020Debit card 
payment£2,255.64 USD £62.03
2 September 
2020Debit card 
payment£2,315.76 USD £63.68
3 September 
2020Debit card 
payment£1,960.59 USD £53.91
17 September Debit card £2,402.29 USD £66.06
2020 payment
22 September 
2020Faster 
payment£25,000.00 GBP £0.00
23 September 
2020Faster 
payment£25,000.00 GBP £0.00
5 October 2020 Faster 
payment£3,821.00 GBP £0.00
23 November 
2020Faster 
payment£25,000.00 GBP £0.00
Mr F says he realised something was amiss when it proved difficult to make a withdrawal, 
the live portal showed a significant drop in profit and his communication with the investment 
manager dwindled. He reported the scam to HSBC in April 2021.
HSBC declined to reimburse Mr F. It said that hed authorised the debit card payments, and 
the faster payments went to an account in his own name, so there was no loss. Mr F referred 
a complaint about HSBC to our Service.
Our investigator considered all of the evidence and upheld Mr Fs complaint. They found that 
the debit card payments were authorised and made with Mr Fs knowledge and consent, but 
HSBC couldve prevented the scam, and Mr Fs loss, in conversations it had with him about 
the £2,427.36 payment on 12 August 2020.They recommended that HSBC refund Mr Fs 
entire loss from that date, minus any money already recovered or refunded, together with 
interest from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
HSBC accepted that the payments made as part of the scam were unusual in consideration 
of Mr Fs usual account activity, but it didnt agree that it had caused his loss  particularly in 
terms of the faster payments which went to an account in Mr Fs own name. In relation to the 
debit card payments, it said its likely that Mr F was under the scammers spell and wouldve 
responded to any questions it had asked on 12 August 2020 in the way he was told to. So, it 
probably wouldnt have been in a position to uncover the scam. But, as a compromise, it said 
that it would refund the debit card payments only.
Our investigator didnt think HSBCs offer was fair, so Mr Fs case has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Ive thought about what Mr F has told us and Im satisfied that all the debit card payments 
made as part of this scam were properly authorised and authenticated under the Payment 
Services Regulations. Mr F may not have been aware that the payments were made via 
debit card, and an agent may have carried them out on his behalf, with his authority. But he 
consented to money leaving his account. And the payments were made by his agent (the 
investment manager) using the debit card linked to his HSBC account, after he had been 
given actual authority to make the payments via remote access to Mr Fs laptop. So, the 
starting point is that HSBC had an obligation to follow Mr Fs payment instructions, and Mr F 
is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story. There 
are circumstances in which a bank should make additional checks before processing a 
payment, or in some cases, decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect its 
customers from the possibility of financial harm. I consider that HSBC should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before making a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Considering the low value of the first debit card payment made as part of the scam (just 
under £250) at the end of July 2020, and Mr Fs prior account activity, I dont think its 
reasonable to expect HSBCs fraud detection systems to have been triggered by it. So, 
I dont think HSBC couldve done more to prevent this particular loss, and it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable to ask it to refund this payment.
But the debit card payment for £2,427.36 which was instructed in mid-August 2020 did 
trigger HSBCs fraud detection systems and the bank had a telephone conversation with 
Mr F in which its reasonable to expect it to have asked some probing questions about the 
payment in order to satisfy itself that Mr F wasnt at risk of financial harm. But, considering 
what was said during the telephone conversation, it doesnt appear that HSBC did. HSBC 
has argued that it wouldnt have been in a position to uncover the scam even if it had done 
enough during its telephone conversation with Mr F, because its likely he was under the 
scammers spell at the time and wouldve responded to any questions it asked in the way the 
scammer told him to. I accept that this may be the case but Ive seen the notes the bank 
made at the time, and its apparent it was aware that Mr F was on another telephone call 
whilst he was speaking to it  relaying information to the caller and being told by the caller to 
start the payment process again straight away. I think this shouldve raised alarm bells for 
the bank. Its not unusual for scammers to coach their victims through telephone 
conversations with their bank when its fraud detection systems have been triggered, and 
I think HSBC wouldve been aware of this. HSBC couldve declined to make the payment 
based on what it had heard during its telephone conversation with Mr F and, in the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that it would have been reasonable for it to do so.
Of course, HSBC could also have imparted information during its telephone call about the 
risks of financial harm. For example, it could have told Mr F that scammers often coach their 
victims through conversations with their bank and advised him what to do if he was in this situation and/or it could have given him information about relevant fraud and scams based 
on the details it had been given on the payment instruction  including that scam investment 
companies often claim to have celebrity customers and to have featured on popular 
television shows. If it had done so, I think its likely that Mr F wouldve realised something 
was amiss and the scammers spell wouldve been broken, if indeed he was under it.
I acknowledge that the main perpetrator here is the fraudster. But overall, I think appropriate 
questions should reasonably have been asked during the telephone call between the bank 
and Mr F on 12 August 2020, and relevant information should have been imparted. If this 
had happened, I dont think its likely that Mr F wouldve wanted to proceed with the payment 
or, if he did, HSBC couldve declined to make the payment. Either way, I think the scam 
wouldve been prevented and Mr F wouldnt have lost the £2,427.36 payment to the scam, or 
any further money  so its fair for HSBC to reimburse his full loss from this point.
For the sake of completeness, I will address HSBCs argument that the faster payments 
went to account in Mr Fs own name, so there was no loss. Cryptocurrency scams often 
involve money passing through more than one account and they were not uncommon at the 
time. I think HSBC wouldve been aware of this. The Financial Conduct Authority and Action 
Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. By late 2020, when the 
faster payments were instructed, I think HSBC ought to have had time to digest these 
warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this type of fraud. So, although 
Mr Fs losses in terms of the faster payments may not have arisen from the initial transfers, 
Im satisfied they ought to have been within the contemplation of, and foreseeable to, HSBC. 
And Im satisfied that HSBC can be held responsible for the loss if it could have prevented 
the scam, as it could have here.
Finally, Ive considered whether Mr F should bear some responsibility for his loss by way of 
contributory negligence but, overall, I dont think there was any contributory negligence on 
this occasion. Of course, there is more Mr F couldve done with the benefit of hindsight to 
protect himself from financial harm. But Im satisfied that the information he says he got from 
the online checks he did on G and having access to a live portal showing investment growth 
was enough to satisfy a reasonable person  especially one that had no prior investment 
experience and had not been educated on fraud and scams by their bank.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
reimburse Mr Fs full loss from 13 August 2020 (including transaction fees), minus 
any money thats already been recovered or refunded; and
pay interest from the date of each payment to the date of settlement (at Mr Fs 
savings account rate on any money that was transferred out of his savings account 
into his current account before being moved on to the scammer, and at a rate of 8% 
simple per annum on any funds that were held in the current account prior to the 
scam).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman