DRN-3123069
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plcs errors in relation to 
a USD transaction caused S to suffer losses of just over £600. 
Mr K, who is a director of S, brings the complaint on Ss behalf.
What happened
The problem here is a mistake over an IBAN (International Bank Account Number), which 
caused foreign currency to go into the wrong bank account. The question is whether it is fair 
and reasonable for me to order HSBC to pay compensation for that mistake.
Mr K told us:
S held an existing sterling account with HSBC. Then, in March 2021, he successfully 
applied to open an additional USD account for S. 
The new USD account simply appeared on his HSBC app  he didnt receive any 
correspondence from HSBC about it, despite HSBC telling him he would receive 
confirmation by post.
He wanted to pay £100,000 worth of USD into Ss new USD account. He asked his 
regular supplier of foreign currency to make the payment, and they asked him to 
provide an IBAN. He provided the only IBAN he knew of, which turned out to be the 
IBAN for Ss sterling account.
S then received the funds into its sterling account, and not its new USD account as 
Mr K wanted.
He asked HSBC to return the funds to the foreign currency supplier, but it refused. In 
the end, HSBC transferred the money from Ss sterling account to its USD account  
resulting in a net loss of just over £600.
HSBCs position is that it provided the new USD account number and IBAN, and any 
error here is the responsibility of Mr K and not the bank. 
He does not agree, and would like HSBC to compensate S for its losses.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but she did not uphold it. She said she was 
satisfied that HSBC did send a welcome letter for Ss new USD account to the address it 
held on file for S. She also said that, given the sums involved, she thought Mr K should have 
checked the IBAN with HSBC  and not simply assumed that the IBAN for Ss USD account 
would be the same as the one for its sterling account.
Mr K did not accept our investigators conclusions, and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman. He said that he was dealing with HSBCs Relationship Manager throughout, 
and nobody mentioned that the IBAN would change. Even when he told HSBC why he 
wanted the USD account, nobody said anything about IBANs. The bank also knew about his 
personal circumstances but failed to send an email in case the post went missing.
Mr Ks view is that the bank failed on several occasions, but our investigator has ignored 
those points. He also said she failed to take into account the impact of the pandemic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr K, but, having reviewed the evidence, I have reached the 
same conclusions as our investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
Its clear that there was an error here. Mr K wanted the funds to go into Ss USD account, 
and they initially went into its sterling account instead. But I dont think it would be fair for me 
to hold HSBC responsible for Mr Ks mistaken assumption that the IBAN he already had was 
the IBAN he needed to use for Ss new USD account. I cannot criticise HSBC for accepting 
the USD payment into the bank account associated with the IBAN Mr K provided to the 
currency provider.
I am also satisfied that HSBC did not give any false or misleading information. I accept that it 
could have given more information at an earlier stage  but it wasnt required to do so, and it 
wasnt required to tell Mr K explicitly that the two accounts would have different IBANs or to 
give him the IBAN for the new account via email.
I acknowledge that Mr K has still not received HSBCs welcome letter. I dont know what 
happened to that letter  it is possible HSBC failed to send it, and it is also possible that it 
was lost in the post or elsewhere. The pandemic may have contributed to the delay or loss of 
the letter. But in any event, the payment in dispute here was made very shortly after Ss 
USD account was opened. Even if the welcome letter had been sent the moment the 
account opened, it still might not have reached Mr K before he gave instructions for the 
transaction. 
Overall, whilst this was a very unfortunate series of events, I dont think HSBC has done 
anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman