DRN-1946685
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with his mortgage.
What happened
In 2004 Mr M took out a mortgage and at the same time he was sold a PPI policy. The 
mortgage and policy were arranged through a broker who was an authorised representative 
of Zurich. The PPI covered Mr Ms mortgage payments if he was unable to work due to 
accident and sickness or lost his job for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld because he didnt think 
there was enough evidence to show the policy was presented as optional. 
Zurich disagreed. So the complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional 
decision in May 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing not to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision 
both parties have confirmed they received my decision but neither provided any new 
information to change the outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In my provisional decision I said that:
Zurich had to make it clear to Mr M he had a choice in taking PPI and that he chose to take 
it. The policy was sold during a meeting. Mr M says he was told taking PPI would go a long 
way to securing a mortgage. But he also says he didnt know he had the cover. Given the 
length of time that has passed I can understand why Mr Ms recollection of events might not 
be as clear or as consistent as if the sale had happened more recently. So to help me reach 
my decision Ive also looked at what the documents from the time show as well as any 
contact Mr M has had with Zurich over the years.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ms mortgage offer from June 2004 which is dated a few weeks 
before the policy welcome back and schedule of insurance was sent out in August 2004. The 
mortgage provider is an entirely different business to the PPI policy provider. Having 
carefully read through the mortgage offer I can see though there are conditions to the offer  
and having PPI is not one of them.
I wouldve thought if PPI was a condition of the mortgage it would say so on the offer. I think 
given the importance of the financial commitment Mr M was making he wouldve read this 
and understood PPI wasnt a condition of the mortgage. The PPI welcome pack also thanks Mr M for choosing Zurich to protect your future 
mortgage repayments and outlines the cost of the policy and that the premiums would be 
taken by direct debit on a monthly basis.  If Mr M hadnt agreed to take the policy out I think 
he wouldve questioned why he was receiving a welcome pack for it. And I think the way the 
policy is presented in the welcome pack is that it was an optional product.
So I think its likely Mr M wouldve understood he didnt have to take PPI as it wasnt a 
condition of his mortgage and the policy and mortgage payments were entirely separate 
from each other. And I think Mr M had PPI because he chose to take it rather than anything 
else. 
Mr M has also said that he wasnt aware he had the policy and if hed known he wouldve 
made a claim on it when he was off work sick in 2017. But Zurich has told us that the 
insurance provider confirmed that Mr M requested a claim form for the policy around the time 
he was off work sick as well as an explanation as to the cover he had within the plan. So I 
think he was aware he had some type of policy in place. 
From what Mr M has told us I think Zurichs representative advised him to take out the PPI. 
What this means is that Zurich not only had to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair 
and not misleading way so that Mr M could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It 
also had to make sure that if it were to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to his 
needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Zurich did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr M for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr M says he was entitled to statutory sick pay and had 
savings he could use to make his mortgage payments if he couldnt work. While Ive 
seen some evidence of savings a successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on 
top of this and for potentially longer up to 12 months per claim. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr M in his circumstances 
especially considering he was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if he was unable to meet his mortgage payments 
I think he wouldve been interested in protecting them.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and if he decided he no 
longer wanted the PPI he couldve cancelled it.
 
I also need to consider whether Zurich gave Mr M information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take PPI out.
I can see the cost of the policy was clear from the welcome pack. But I dont know if Zurich 
gave all the proper information as it shouldve. But even if there were problems with the 
information and advice, for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr M has told us about his circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out PPI 
given the proper information.
This means I dont think Mr M was any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Zurich.
As neither party has provided any new evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I do 
not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision I do not uphold Mr M's complaint 
against Zurich Assurance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman