DRN-2367092
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly 
declined a claim under their home insurance policy for damage to a solar panel.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C said when their window cleaner was cleaning the solar panels on their roof in 
March 2020, he discovered one of them had shattered. Mr C said hed inspected the panels 
in January 2020 after a contractor had cleared moss off the roof and the panel hadnt been 
damaged at that point. The original installer said it would cost just over £1,000 to remove 
and replace the damaged panel.
Mr and Mrs C said there was a small 6mm hole in the panel. The company that supplied the 
panels told them it might have been damaged by a small stone or something similar.
Mr and Mrs C made a claim to Lloyds. It said they werent covered for accidental damage. It 
also said it wasnt storm damage as there hadnt been a storm as defined in the policy in 
their local area at the relevant time.
Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had 
treated them unfairly. As Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer makes a claim, its for them to show that, more likely than not, an insured 
event caused the damage. 
In this case Mr and Mrs C didnt have accidental damage cover which was an optional extra 
under their policy. Ill consider whether any other sections of their policy might cover this 
damage.
Mr and Mrs C are covered for storm damage. Their policy defines a storm as a period of 
violent weather with strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph and/or hail or snow of such 
intensity or weight that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. But they were 
unable to say exactly when the storm damage might have occurred. They thought it might 
have been caused by one of several storms in the period between January and March 2020.
Mr and Mrs C described the damage as being the sort that a small stone might have caused. 
They thought strong winds might have lifted a small object such as a stone and battered it 
against the solar panel. I agree this is a possibility. But, although there were storm force 
winds during the period in question, I dont think theyve shown that the damage was more 
likely than not to have been caused by an identifiable storm. Instead they seem to be saying 
that is something which might have happened.
According to weather records there was one small hail storm in their local area in the period 
before the damage to the solar panel was discovered with hail of 1mm recorded. So Ill look 
at whether the damage might have been caused by hail. I accept that hailstorms can 
damage glass, although in the UK we dont often get hailstorms of that intensity. A large 
hailstone would usually be about 2cm or more across. But in this case the hole was only 
6mm wide suggesting a relatively small hailstone. Solar panels are usually made of 
toughened glass. I think its unlikely that a small hailstone would be likely to have caused a 
hole in toughened glass. I also think a hail storm which was strong enough to damage glass 
would be widely reported with other glass such as windscreens being damaged in the same 
area. Ive seen no evidence of this being the case. Overall, Im not persuaded that this 
damage was probably caused by a hailstorm.
Lastly Mr and Mrs Cs policy covers them for impact by any vehicle, train, animal, aircraft of 
any type including models such as drones, or other aerial device, or anything dropped from 
them, a falling tree or branch, lamp post, telegraph pole or pylon.
Since they live near a major airport, they also asked us to consider whether something 
dropped or falling off an aeroplane could have caused the damage. I agree that this is also a 
possibility. But unfortunately for them, in order to bring a successful claim, Mr and Mrs C 
need to show that this is more likely than not what happened. I dont think theyve done that 
and the option of it being accidental damage (which isnt covered by their policy) seems to 
me at least equally likely.
Since I dont think theyve shown that the damage in question was on the balance of 
probabilities caused by something covered by their policy, Im not persuaded that Lloyds 
has treated them unfairly in declining their claim.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman