DRN-3841692
The complaint
Ms S complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc have handled a claim she made on her 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to AXA includes its agents. 
What happened
Ms S holds a motor insurance policy with AXA. Shes was involved in an accident she said 
wasnt her fault. She contacted AXA to make a claim. Her complaint relates to AXAs 
handling of that claim.
Shes unhappy AXA originally agreed to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis with the third-party 
insurer. She thinks AXA did this too hastily. Because Ms S thinks shes not at fault for the 
accident she doesnt think its fair she has to pay her excess. And shes said the open claim 
is likely to increase the price of her policy which she doesnt think is fair either.
AXA agreed it looked to settle on a 50/50 basis too soon. It offered Ms S £125 compensation 
for this. It said it was willing to pursue full liability with the third party, but in order to do that, 
Ms S needed to agree to get her car repaired and pay the excess. It said the open claim is 
likely to affect her premium, but so too is any claim. And it felt it was fair to keep the claim 
open while it was still in dispute.
Ms S disagreed and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He thought AXA was acting reasonably and in line with Ms Ss policy.
Unhappy, Ms S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this will disappoint Ms S. Ill explain my 
reasoning.
Its not my role to decide who or who wasnt at fault for the incident. What I have to 
decide is whether I think AXAs decision is fair or not.
And Im satisfied it is. Its a term of Ms Ss policy that AXA may take over any claim 
she makes. This is a common term throughout motor insurance policies. This means 
ultimately the final decision on any claim lies with AXA. Naturally that means it may, 
on occasion, make a decision Ms S is unhappy with.
AXA has agreed it looked to settle on a 50/50 basis too soon. And its agreed to look 
to pursue the third party for full liability. The third party disputes this  which its 
entitled to do.
In order for the claim to progress AXA says Ms S needs to agree to get her car 
repaired and pay her excess. Im satisfied thats reasonable. Without an outlay to 
pursue from the third party, AXA cant progress this claim. It cant take the matter to 
court to chase for costs it hasnt incurred. So, it needs to incur costs to chase. In 
order to do that it needs to repair Ms Ss car. But in order to do that, Ms S needs to 
pay her excess. The excess is the first part of any claim Ms S needs to pay, 
regardless of how its settled liability wise.
So, Ms S can choose to pay her excess and have her car repaired. Should she do 
this, AXA can then pursue its outlay and dispute liability with the third party. That 
pursuit might not be successful, and AXA might agree to settle the claim without 
taking it to court (to be clear that decision hasnt been made by AXA so cant be 
considered in this decision). But if AXA is successful, its likely itll be able to include 
Ms Ss excess in its outlay and return it to her. Or, Ms S could pursue the third party 
for her excess herself or through any legal cover she may have.
Or, Ms S can chose not to get her car repaired, but then AXA isnt able to progress 
the claim any further, and assuming theres no costs being claimed for by the third 
party it should close the claim as notification only.
While the claim is open its likely to be recorded as a fault claim, thats standard 
across the industry. Any claim, no matter how its recorded is likely to affect Ms Ss 
premium. 
Im satisfied £125 is reasonable compensation for the distress caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman