DRN-2803872
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the handling of a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy 
with American International Group UK Limited (AIG).
What happened
In April 2020, Mr B made a claim under his policy as he had damaged his phone. AIG 
accepted the claim and sent a replacement phone. However, Mr B told AIG the replacement 
phone was faulty. He also complained about the delivery companys conduct, as the driver 
was abrupt with him and he didnt receive any tracking information. Mr B said he did not 
want to swap the faulty phone for a new one and it was agreed he would contact AIG again it 
the fault got worse. Mr B contacted AIG again in June 2020 to arrange for the faulty phone to 
be replaced. 
I understand a higher specification model replacement was agreed, as the original was not in 
stock. This was sent out but the delivery failed. When AIG arranged the redelivery, a 
different model phone was sent. AIG agreed that Mr B should receive the model phone that 
had been offered previously, and so told Mr B to refuse the delivery of the incorrect model 
phone and then it would arrange delivery of the agreed model. 
Mr B was unhappy with the way the matter was being dealt with and also that he would have 
to give the faulty phone to the delivery driver in exchange for the replacement and he 
needed help to set up the replacement phone. 
In June 2020, AIG responded to Mr Bs complaint about this. It said it could not assist Mr B 
with setting up his new phone, it could only do a doorstep exchange and the faulty phone 
would have to be ready to hand over to the courier in exchange for the replacement. 
However, AIG offered £80 compensation for the replacement phone being faulty.  
I understand a doorstep exchange was arranged for 16 June 2020 but Mr B did not want to 
return his faulty phone at that point, as he had not backed up the data from it. Mr B was still 
unhappy that he would have to give the faulty phone back in exchange for the replacement. 
Mr B was told thered be another attempt the following day and also three other dates in 
June 2020 but at this stage the delivery company told AIG it would not deliver to Mr Bs 
address, as it had blacklisted his address, so the deliveries didnt happen. AIG suggested it 
could arrange delivery to a different address, or it could pay Mr B a cash settlement of £489 
in lieu of replacement. Mr B disputed that his address had been blacklisted and asked AIG to 
use other means to get a replacement phone to him. 
In August 2020, AIG issued another response to Mr Bs further complaint about the issues 
since June 2020. It admitted that there were some unnecessary delays on its part, as it had 
not been aware the delivery company wouldnt deliver to his address and it did not ask for an 
alternative address until the beginning of July 2020; Mr B had been told deliveries would be 
made when they werent; and he was not kept properly informed. AIG however, said it cant 
use another company to deliver phones due to its contractual commitments to the delivery 
company. It also accepted that it had told Mr B to expect a higher specification model phone, 
and so agreed to increase the cash offer to £769, as the replacement cost of the higher 
specification model. AIG asked again for a different address to deliver to, or it could pay the 
cash settlement of £769 instead. It also offered £180 compensation for the trouble caused to 
Mr B.
Mr B confirmed he accepted the revised cash settlement offered but still said he would need 
to keep the faulty phone until he had a replacement, so he could transfer his data. He said 
he didnt know how to back up his phone and couldnt be without it.  Due to the dispute about 
this, nothing further happened until Mr B contacted AIG again in October 2020, and it was 
agreed that AIG would send Mr B a pre-paid pouch by Royal Mail for him to return the faulty 
phone. It paid a total of £769 a couple of days after receiving the phone back from Mr B.
Mr B is very unhappy with the service provided and has made a number of submissions, 
which Ive summarised below: 
He was told several times he would get a particular model phone, as his original 
insured phone was not in stock, but then AIG sent a different one. 
The delivery company had delivered the first phone, so why would it not deliver the 
replacement?
AIG sent him a recorded registered envelope six months after the matter was first 
raised for him to return the damaged phone in, so why couldn't it do that to start with?
AIG has not proven his address is blacklisted and it lied that it could not use other 
delivery methods. 
For six months he was forced to use a broken phone, which caused him 
unreasonable pressure and anxiety. 
He had to call AIG at least 40 times to resolve this matter. 
AIGs actions against him were racially motivated. 
Mr B wants compensation of £1,000 for the trouble caused to him, including being slandered 
by AIG. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied that AIG had made a reasonable offer to settle the claim and 
options to overcome the problems with the delivery company, and had also made a 
reasonable offer of compensation. The investigator did not consider that Mr B had been 
discriminated against. 
Mr B does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
He says the investigator is biased and has not looked at all the evidence properly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It took some considerable time (five to six months) to resolve this matter and provide Mr B 
with proper indemnity under his policy with AIG. Mr B is adamant that this was all due to AIG 
and could have been avoided. He is also convinced that this was motivated by discrimination 
against him based on his race.  
Mr B was provided with a faulty phone in response to his original insurance claim. AIG 
accepts this should not have happened and offered £80 compensation for this and agreed to 
provide another phone. I think this was reasonable. There was then one apparently missed delivery. Mr B disputes anyone attended but I have 
no reason to doubt it was attempted. AIG then sent a different model phone than the one   
Mr B was expecting. However, I note that it was the same, or similar to the original insured 
phone, which is what Mr B was entitled to under the policy. But because it had agreed to 
send a higher specification model previously, AIG agreed to do so again, even though Mr Bs 
original phone was at that point back in stock. So while this added some delay, I think AIG 
acted reasonably, as it would have been entitled to provide the lower specification phone.  
The delivery company then apparently blacklisted Mr Bs address and refused to deliver 
another replacement phone there. I have no power to determine if this was reasonable or 
not, as the delivery company is not within our jurisdiction. But I have no reason to doubt what 
AIG has said about this. It took a couple of weeks for the facts about this to be established 
and Mr B was receiving notifications of delivery appointments during this time, which didnt 
go ahead.  From everything I have seen, I am satisfied that AIG was trying to resolve the 
issue. Having said that, I can understand why Mr B was frustrated by the process. There 
were numerous phone calls and two to three weeks of going back and forth to try and 
resolve the delivery problem. 
AIG said it cant use any other delivery company for deliveries (apparently due to its 
contractual obligations with the delivery company) and so offered to arrange delivery to 
another address or make a cash settlement. I think this was a reasonable approach to try to 
get the replacement phone to Mr B. I am not persuaded that AIGs response to this, at that 
time, was unreasonable. Mr B was given these options at the beginning of July 2020. 
Mr B was unhappy with the cash amount offered. He said he paid £800 for his phone, so 
should receive that as the cash settlement of his claim. However, AIG offered what it would 
cost to replace the insured phone with another on a like-for-like basis. This means not a 
brand new phone but a phone of the same age and condition as when the claim was made. 
The cash settlement offered was later increased but I am not persuaded the initial cash offer 
was wrong, given it was based on the insured model. Mr B didnt want to use a different 
address and was also unhappy hed have to return the faulty phone before receiving the 
replacement or being able to buy a replacement. 
AIG increased the cash offer to Mr B but maintained he would have to return the faulty 
phone to him before this could be paid. This is not unusual. While I can understand Mr Bs 
difficulties in being able to back up his phone data, this is not something that AIG was 
required to help him with. The dispute about this meant there was further delay before it was 
agreed Mr B would return the phone first and then the cash settlement would be paid. 
I note AIG sent Mr B a pre-paid Royal Mail package for him to send the faulty phone in. Mr B 
says it could therefore have used Royal Mail at the outset and he would have been saved all 
this trouble.  However, I do not think this means AIG lied about its commitment with a 
delivery company for delivery of replacement phones, as Mr B has alleged. This pre-paid 
package was not for a delivery to Mr B but for him to send his faulty phone back to AIG in. 
However, having said that I think (as it was the delivery company that refused to deliver to 
Mr B) AIG could have explored other options for delivery of the replacement phone to Mr B 
earlier on. But given there was also an ongoing dispute about Mr B having to do a 
simultaneous exchange of the phones, this might not have meant the matter was concluded 
any quicker. 
This matter did take some considerable time but having considered all the evidence, I am 
not persuaded that it was entirely due to wrongdoing on AIGs part. Mr B was given 
reasonable options to resolve the matter in early July, around a month after he confirmed he 
wanted to replace the faulty phone. There were errors by AIG, as it has already accepted, including providing him with a faulty phone, not clarifying sooner the problem with the 
delivery company and not offering an alternative delivery method. 
Mr B is concerned that this was motivated by discrimination against him. He also told the 
investigator he was always spoken to nicely by AIGs representatives but he was slandered 
by one representative who queried why he did not get out of bed earlier (which I understand 
was in response to a complaint about the time that one of the delivery drivers called him). 
There is nothing in the evidence I have seen that would suggest Mr B was not treated 
professionally and respectfully in this matter. And Ive not seen any evidence of any 
deliberate wrongdoing by any AIG representatives. From the evidence I have seen, and the 
calls Ive listened to, AIG appeared to have tried hard to resolve the issues that arose in 
order to resolve this for Mr B. While some things did go wrong, there is no evidence that this 
was due to discrimination.
Overall, I think the compensation already offered by AIG, together with the enhanced cash 
settlement, is reasonable to reflect the trouble caused to Mr B. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, as I am satisfied American International Group UK Limited  
has already made a reasonable offer in full and final settlement of the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman