DRN-2372440
The complaint
Mr G says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual) lent to him irresponsibly. 
He said that Mutual did not make adequate checks before lending. He thinks that if it had 
done it wouldve seen that he had a significant amount of debt and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about six home collected loans Mutual provided to Mr G between 
June 2014 and November 2018. 
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 21/06/2014 £500 51 08/07/2015
2 11/07/2015 £500 51 08/02/2017
3 14/11/2015 £300 102 07/02/2018
4 26/11/2016 £500 51 07/02/2018
break in lending
5 13/10/2018 £1,000 102 outstanding
6 24/11/2018 £100 26 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She said that Mutual shouldnt have approved 
loans 3 and 4 as the lending pattern itself was harmful for these loans. Mutual disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion. Ive read in total what Mutual have said, and a brief summary is 
below:
our adjudicator hasnt considered the product properly. This type of lending is not the 
same as a payday loans
the loans are not high interest or expensive
the adjudicator didnt properly consider Mr Gs circumstances or consider what 
proportionate checks were needed. The checks Mutual did were proportionate and 
approved after personal contact. There was a discussion about affordability before 
each loan and Mr G agreed with the lending
the loans were affordable and there is no evidence that shows the consumer was in 
financial difficulty or a debt spiral
its not appropriate to use an arbitrary loan number to uphold the complaint at. And 
there is no evidence to support the adjudicators conclusions that the length of time 
over which the consumer borrowed makes the loans unsustainable
repeat lending, and long-term use of home credit, is not necessarily harmful to 
consumers and the indsutry regulator has confirmed this
 As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints 
and the what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this type of 
credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont intend to go into 
detail on that here. But a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Some of Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to 
Mr G. It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has responded to Mutual 
on these issues in detail through other final decisions and the published decisions on our 
website. So Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit. And 
while I note it has a longer term than, for example, a payday loan, that does not make it a 
low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said anything to the contrary on 
this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything else in making my decision.
Mr G didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 - 2 and 5 - 6. Because of 
this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans  although, for the 
avoidance of doubt, from what Ive seen I agree that it wasnt unfair of Mutual to have 
provided these loans. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr G had with Mutual. 
So they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 3 and 4 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending 
history with Mr G, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Mutual should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Gs case, I think that this point was reached at loan 
3 and continued over loan 4, before the break in lending. And this isnt an arbitrary number 
but is based on the individual circumstances of this case, including the consumers lending 
pattern. I say this because:
at this point Mutual ought to have realised Mr G was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr G had been indebted to Mutual for around 18 months. So Mutual 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not that Mr Gs indebtedness was 
unsustainable
right from the start Mr G was provided with a new loan when he had either just 
settled a previous one or when he still had a loan, or loans, outstanding  loan 3 was 
approved when he was still making repayments to loan 2. Similarly, loan 4 was 
started when loans 2 and 3 were outstanding
and Mr G wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mutual. All these 
loans were due to be repaid over a long time which meant he would remain in debt 
going forward
Mr G was showing a pattern of increased indebtedness, and monthly repayments, up 
to the time he took loans 3 and 4. I think its reasonable to say that this was an 
indicator he was having problems with this debt
And Mr G had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mutual 
over an extended period
I think that Mr G lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing over loans 3 and 4 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time; and
the length of time over which Mr G borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 3 and 4 and Mutual should put things 
right.
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent Mr G loans 3 and 4.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mr G loans 3 and 4.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr G 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should pay Mr G the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Gs borrowing for loans 3 and 4 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr Gs credit file. If 
Mutual has sold any of the loans Mutual should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman