DRN-3767498
The complaint
The estate of Mr P complains about Union Reiseversicherung AGs (URVs) decision to 
decline a claim for a medical emergency made under Mr Ps travel insurance policy. The 
complaint also relates to URVs handling of the claim and the level of assistance provided by 
URV when Mr P fell ill abroad. 
The estate of Mr P is represented by Mr S, who himself has appointed a representative to 
act on his behalf. For ease, Ive referred to Mr S throughout this decision, but all references 
to Mr Ss submissions include those of his representative. 
All references to URV include the agents appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr P was the sole insured under an annual travel insurance policy provided by URV. The 
policy was purchased online in December 2018 and several medical conditions were 
declared for Mr P. Mr S telephoned URV on 4 January 2019 and obtained a quotation to 
upgrade the policy from European to Worldwide cover. On 7 January 2019, Mr S telephoned 
URV again and went ahead with the upgrade. 
Unfortunately, while on holiday abroad, Mr P was taken ill and was admitted to hospital. Mr S 
contacted URV to notify it about the claim, but URV initially refused to speak to Mr S and 
there was subsequent confusion by URV about the relationship between Mr P and Mr S.  
More than two weeks after Mr P was admitted to hospital, URV said the claim wasnt 
covered because it hadnt been told about Mr Ps medication and a pre-existing medical 
condition. URV later declined the claim for a different reason  because Mr P had a stroke 
previously and this wasnt declared to it. URV said if it had been told about the stroke when 
the policy was sold, it wouldnt have offered cover to Mr P. As a result of URVs decision, Mr 
S incurred significant costs in paying for Mr Ps medical bills and in arranging for his return to 
the UK with a medical escort. 
Very sadly, Mr P passed away a number of months later. 
Unhappy, Mr S complained to URV. He said URV had been told about Mr Ps stroke during 
telephone calls in January 2019. Mr S also complained about the level of service provided by 
URV when it was informed about Mr Ps medical emergency abroad. 
URV responded to the complaint and said five online medical screenings had been 
completed for Mr P in the lead-up to the policy being purchased and different medical 
conditions were disclosed on each screening  but a stroke wasnt disclosed on any. URV 
said the questions it asked when the policy was sold werent complicated or confusing and 
the calls made by Mr S in January 2019 werent for the purpose of declaring a health 
condition, so its agent wouldnt have been required to do anything more than what had been 
done. Finally, URV said it acknowledged that data protection requirements could be onerous 
and inconvenient in the circumstances which Mr S was in, but it needed to comply with 
legislation designed to protect confidential medical information. 
Mr S brought the matter to the attention of our service. Initially, one of our investigators said 
the complaint wasnt one which this service had the power to look into, but another 
ombudsman disagreed. So, an investigator considered the merits of the complaint. She said 
she didnt think URV had acted unfairly by declining Mr Ps claim, and that the content of the 
telephone calls in January 2019 didnt change this. But she said URV should retrospectively 
avoid Mr Ps policy and return the premiums to his estate. Our investigator concluded that 
there were delays by URV in deciding whether Mr Ps claim was covered but, because Mr P 
was the sole policyholder, she was limited in what (if any) compensation could now be 
awarded in respect of this complaint.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been referred to 
me as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr P, and about his subsequent sad passing. 
I dont doubt that this must have been a very worrying and distressing time for Mr S, and Id 
like to offer him my sincere condolences for his loss. 
Ive read and considered all the detailed submissions provided by Mr S, and Ive also taken 
into account all the information which URV has provided. But, reflecting the informal nature 
of our service, I wont be referencing and/or addressing each and every complaint point 
raised  nor am I obliged to. Instead, I only intend to address what I think are the key 
complaint issues.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. The rules also 
say that insurers must provide reasonable guidance to help policyholders make a claim and 
provide appropriate information on its progress. Ive taken these rules into account when 
making my decision about Mr Ps complaint. 
URVs decision to decline Mr Ps claim
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA), and Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to apply the principles set 
out in CIDRA to Mr Ps claim. CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care 
required is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying one. For the 
misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, the insurer must show it would have offered the 
policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
The sale of this policy didnt take place during the January 2019 calls. The sale took place 
online in December 2018 and URV thinks Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he answered no to the following question:You should tell us if you: 
a) 
b) have EVER been diagnosed with or treated for any of the following:
i. any heart or circulatory condition
ii. a stroke, TIA (transient ischaemic attack) or high blood pressure
iii. a brain haemorrhage
iv. a breathing condition (including asthma)
v. any type of cancer
vi. any type of diabetes
URV says Mr P should have answered yes to this question because hed had a stroke in 
2017. 
Im satisfied that this question is clear and specific in prompting a reasonable consumer that 
URV would want to know if a policyholder had ever suffered from a stroke. I dont agree with 
Mr Ss submissions that long questions set out on separate webpages and/or the way in 
which medical conditions are grouped together makes the question asked or the overall 
sales process unclear or confusing. 
Mr S has quoted from regulatory guidance FG21/1 Guidance for firms on the fair treatment 
of vulnerable customers. But this guidance was published in 2021 and doesnt apply 
retrospectively - so it isnt relevant to Mr Ps complaint. Prior to the publication of FG21/1, 
insurers were bound by obligations set out in the regulators Principles for Business to treat 
customers fairly, and I also note the regulators stated expectations to exercise particular 
care when dealing with vulnerable customers. However, this doesnt change my decision 
that I think the sales process which Mr P followed, and the questions which he was asked 
about his previous medical history, were clear. 
The fact that the content of certain questions in the online sales journey may now have 
changed doesnt, in itself, demonstrate that the original sales process was inadequate. In 
any event, the underwriter of this brand of policy has changed since Mr P bought his cover. 
And, if Mr P had any questions about what medical conditions he needed to tell URV about, 
or if he was unsure what he was being asked, he or a representative on his behalf could 
have contacted URV to check before the purchase of the policy was concluded. 
This means I dont think Mr P took reasonable care when answering the questions asked 
when he bought his policy online and, therefore, he made a qualifying misrepresentation 
under CIDRA.
Ive carefully considered the content of the telephone calls which took place between Mr S 
and URV in January 2019. In doing so, Ive had particular regard to the reasonable care 
provisions set out under Section 3 of CIDRA. 
These calls werent sales calls  they were calls made after the sale of the policy had 
already taken place, to make enquiries about and to amend the extent of the geographical 
cover. Its not in dispute that Mr S told URV that Mr P had a stroke. But the purpose of the 
calls wasnt to make  or to change a previously made  medical declaration on behalf of Mr P. Instead, the purpose of the calls was to amend what Mr S said was a mistake in the policy 
cover, and to upgrade the policy from European to Worldwide. In these circumstances, I 
wouldnt necessarily expect URVs call advisor to have gone through a medical declaration, 
and URVs procedures dont require its advisors to do so. I understand Mr S says he 
believed Mr Ps stroke had been declared when the policy was purchased online in 
December 2018. But a stroke wasnt mentioned as a declared medical condition on the 
original policy schedule which was sent to Mr P. And I note Mr P was sent another policy 
schedule after the policy was amended in January 2019, to check the details were correct. A 
stroke also wasnt mentioned as a declared medical condition on that policy schedule. The 
onus was on Mr P not to make a misrepresentation when he bought the policy in December 
2018 and the calls that took place in January 2019 dont change my decision that Mr P made 
a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. Any obligations on the insurer with regard to 
the treatment of vulnerable customers prior to the introduction of FG 21/1 also dont change 
my findings on this point. 
This means I think URV is entitled to rely on the relevant remedy for qualifying 
misrepresentation set out in CIDRA. URV has accepted our investigators findings that Mr 
Ps misrepresentation was careless. 
Im satisfied, based on the explanations and evidence provided by URV, that if Mr P had 
answered yes to the question set out above, no cover would have been provided. I 
understand Mr S disputes this but Im satisfied that URV has demonstrated it wouldnt have 
offered any cover at all if Mr P had declared all the medical conditions he was asked about 
during the online screening  including the stroke. Mr S has questioned the underwriting 
ratings quoted by URV but, based on my experience of dealing with complaints of this type, 
Im satisfied with the information URV has provided. I havent been sent copies of the 
alternative quotes obtained by Mr S which he says produced an offer of cover for an 
additional premium, so I cant fairly give these quotes any persuasive weight in support of an 
argument that URVs submissions on this point are incorrect.  
As URV wouldnt have offered Mr P any cover at all if hed declared his stroke, its entitled to 
decline the claim in full under CIDRA. However, in line with CIDRA, URV should avoid the 
policy and refund the premiums paid, which it has now agreed to do.
In these circumstances, where no cover at all would have been offered were it not for the 
qualifying misrepresentation (rather than a situation where cover would have been offered 
for the undeclared medical condition for an additional premium), there are no reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV to pay Mr Ps claim on a proportionate basis. 
URVs handling of the claim
An insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries to satisfy itself that a claim is covered. In 
cases like Mr Ps, involving medical emergencies abroad, this would generally include asking 
for details of a policyholders medical history from their GP. But, in making such enquiries, Id 
expect URV to act without any excessive or undue delay, and to keep Mr Ps representatives 
reasonably informed of the progress of the claim. 
I understand there were initial difficulties by URV in communicating with Mr S in this case, as 
Mr P was the sole policyholder. URV was asking for Mr Ps consent to deal with Mr S, when 
Mr P wasnt in a position to give such consent. I can understand why this would have been 
very frustrating for Mr S. But, although I think URV could have given more consideration to 
how best to deal with the situation, businesses are obliged to incorporate data protection 
checks into their processes and its not within my remit to direct a business to change its 
internal procedures. So, I cant fairly conclude URV should have done something differently 
here. However, I also understand Mr P was incorrectly referred to by URV on various occasions as 
female, Mr Ss wife, Mr Ss mother and Mr Ss father. These were unavoidable errors by 
URV, and I dont think these errors should have happened. URV could have updated its 
claims notes to ensure that the relationship between Mr S and Mr P was clear to any of its 
advisors reading the notes. This could have avoided the frustration and upset experienced 
by Mr S and avoided Mr S having to unnecessarily repeat himself at an already distressing 
time. But, while I dont wish to dismiss Mr Ss strength of feeling about the matter, Im 
satisfied that these mistakes were caused by human error on the part of URV, rather than 
because of any less favourable treatment to Mr S because of the nature of his and Mr Ps 
relationship. 
I think its clear from URVs claims notes that it didnt keep Mr P updated as Id have 
expected it to. Mr S  and later his representative  was repeatedly chasing URV for 
information and updates. Furthermore, Mr S says he was on hold to URV for extended 
periods of time and was told hed receive call-backs which didnt happen. In situations such 
as this, Id generally expect an insurer to request a medical report regarding the 
policyholders admission to hospital as soon as reasonably possible. But it seems to have 
taken URV a number of days to do this. Furthermore, I dont think URV requested details of 
Mr Ps medical history from his GP as early as it could have. And, when URV received the 
medical records, I dont think it reviewed these as quickly as it could have. If URV had acted 
sooner, its likely a decision to decline cover could have been made and communicated to 
Mr S more efficiently. Like our investigator, Im not satisfied that the retrospective screening 
call between URV and Mr S was necessary in order for URV to make a decision about 
cover, and I dont think theres any doubt that this call will have added to Mr Ss already 
considerable stress and upset. In addition, I think it would have been helpful if URV had 
declined the claim for the correct reason from the outset, and I think its failure to do so 
caused further frustration and inconvenience to Mr S. 
Mr S has also expressed concerns about the level of assistance URV provided with the 
repatriation arrangements for Mr P. It seems URV initially indicated that it could support Mr 
S with the arrangements. In circumstances where a claim isnt covered under a travel 
insurance policy, I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to have done more than URV did 
here. But I think URV could have been clearer in its communications with Mr S in explaining 
the limitations of the support and/or information it could provide relating to repatriation from 
the outset. 
In summary therefore, I dont think URV handled this claim as it should have. I hope my 
explanations in where I think there were failings have been helpful to Mr S in understanding 
how the claim could have been handled differently by URV. But I have no power to direct 
URV to pay any compensation to Mr S for any personal distress which he experienced. This 
is because Mr S wasnt insured under this policy and therefore isnt an eligible complainant 
in his own right in relation to this claim. Mr S is an eligible complainant only in his capacity as 
the personal representative of Mr Ps estate, and I have no authority to award compensation 
for distress or inconvenience to an estate. 
While I would, in certain limited circumstances, have the power to award compensation to Mr 
P for any distress and inconvenience he experienced before he sadly passed away, I dont 
think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly do so in this case. I dont 
think URV acted incorrectly by declining this claim, so no compensation is due for URVs 
failure to accept responsibility for Mr Ps medical costs and repatriation. And, although I 
agree that there were failings on the part of URV in the handling of Mr Ps claim, Mr P wasnt 
aware of what was happening with his claim during the first seven days of his hospital 
admission. And, after this point, I must have regard to the fact that, understandably, Mr S  
and later Mr Ss representative  was dealing with matters relating to the claim on behalf of 
Mr P, thereby reducing the effect of the situation on Mr P. Based on the individual circumstances of this case, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct URV to pay 
any compensation for the impact of its actions on Mr P. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S and I know he has incurred significant costs. But I wont be 
directing URV to do anything further than what Ive outlined below. 
Putting things right
Union Reiseversicherung AG needs to put things right by retrospectively avoiding Mr Ps 
policy and refunding the premiums paid to his estate. Interest should be added at 8% simple 
per annum from the date the premiums were paid until the date of settlement. 
My final decision
Im upholding the estate of Mr Ps complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG in part, 
and I direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman