The complaint
Ms M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited didnt adequately respond when she notified it 
that she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
In July 2019 Ms M raised a complaint with Vanquis. She said she was upset there was no 
way to contact it using email or a message centre, and advised that she was suffering from 
health and mental health problems and receiving treatment. She explained shed been 
signed off work for 3 months by her doctor and was working towards a phased return. As a 
result she was experiencing temporary financial difficulties. She asked that Vanquis put her 
credit card account on hold for 2 months and freeze any interest and charges. She also said 
that she found telephone calls extremely stressful and asked Vanquis to contact her only by 
email or letter. 
Ms M didnt receive any response to her complaint from Vanquis other than an 
acknowledgement letter. So she referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and found that Vanquis had sent a final 
response letter to Ms Ms complaint on 27 August 2019. He also thought it was likely Ms M 
had received this letter given further correspondence shed had with Vanquis. He noted that 
in this letter Vanquis had invited Ms M to complete an income and expenditure form, and 
invited her to contact its Specialist Support Team using email or text. And he said he 
considered this to have been an appropriate response to her situation. 
In its final response letter Vanquis also apologised for failing to prevent phone calls being 
made to Ms M despite her asking it to only contact her in writing. It credited Ms Ms account 
with £150; £78 being charges and interest applied in July and August 2019, and £72 being 
compensation for the number of calls she received. But our investigator recommended that 
Vanquis increase this amount to £300 in recognition of the fact over 30 calls had been made, 
which he felt would have had a significant impact on Ms M given her health. 
Vanquis didnt agree. It says that its call process provides that it can call a customer three 
times a day, and so it didnt feel the number of calls it had made was excessive. It feels that 
the £150 already paid is sufficient compensation to resolve this complaint. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1561685To be clear, Im deciding here whether I think Vanquis offer of £150 is sufficient to reflect the 
poor service Ms M received when she originally complained to it. 
It seems shes had similar problems in dealing with Vanquis Specialist Support Team since 
then. While I cant (strictly speaking) look into those problems here as Vanquis hasnt yet 
sent Ms M a final response on them, Id urge Vanquis to engage with her to try and resolve 
matters as quickly as possible. Ms M could, of course, make a separate complaint about the 
further problems shes had. But that doesnt really help her  or help Vanquis help her 
resolve these matters. So Id hope that if a resolution hasn't yet been found Vanquis will try 
and respond to Ms Ms further problems as quickly as possible, using her preferred method 
of communication. Ms M needs to engage actively with Vanquis when it does work with her 
in future. And Im sure shell do this.
But  for the avoidance of doubt  Im not considering the merits of Ms Ms concerns about 
the further problems shes had with Vanquis. That, unfortunately, would need to be the 
subject of a separate complaint. And I very much hope that both parties will be able to work 
together to avoid the need for this to be resolved by this service.
I can see that Ms M raised her original complaint with Vanquis on 3 July 2019. Vanquis 
acknowledged this complaint in a letter dated 4 July 2019 and advised that it would seek to 
respond as soon as possible and within 8 weeks. It also says that its Specialist Support 
Team emailed Ms M on 5 July 2019 but didnt receive a response.
Ms M says she didnt receive a final response to her complaint. But Vanquis has provided 
our service with a copy of a final response letter it says it sent to Ms M. And I can see that 
this is dated 27 August 2019  within the 8 week timescale in which businesses should aim 
to respond to complaints like this. 
Our investigator felt that it was likely Ms M did receive this final response letter, and Ive 
reached the same conclusion. I say this because in the letter Vanquis asked Ms M to 
complete an enclosed income and expenditure form so that it could further assess her 
situation. And Ms M refers to having sent this information as requested by Vanquis in 
subsequent correspondence. 
When a customer notifies a business that they are experiencing financial difficulties the 
business should respond positively and sympathetically. Im satisfied that this final response 
letter demonstrated a positive response from Vanquis. It put her in contact with its Specialist 
Support Team, which is what Id expect. And it took steps to seek to understand her situation 
further so that it could assist her appropriately, which again I would expect in the 
circumstances. So in this respect, whilst I recognise that Vanquis didnt do as Ms M asked in 
her original complaint before issuing a final response letter (i.e. agree to put her account on 
hold and freeze interest and charges), I do think it provided a reasonable response. 
However Vanquis did acknowledge that it had made numerous telephone calls to Ms M 
despite her asking it not to contact her using this method. It apologised for this and credited 
her account with a total of £150. 
Looking at Vanquis records I can see that it attempted to call Ms M a total of 37 times on 28 
different days between 8 July 2019 and 12 August 2019. Given Ms Ms health and mental 
health problems which she had already described to Vanquis as including depression, 
anxiety, insomnia and high blood pressure (and which I have seen medical evidence of) - I 
can appreciate that this would have had a severe impact on her. And so whilst I note 
Vanquis comments about its call process, I do think that our investigators recommendation 
that it increase the level of compensation paid to Ms M is a fair one. Putting things right
To put things right for Ms M Vanquis Bank Limited should pay her a further £150 
compensation for the inconvenience, stress and upset caused by its poor service, taking the 
total awarded to £300.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint for the reasons outlined above. Vanquis Bank Limited should 
pay Ms M £150 further compensation as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman