DRN-3265676
The complaint
Mr J complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr J acquired a second hand car costing £25,225. It was a little over a year
old and had covered 22,483 miles. The following day he took it back to the dealer and said a
warning light had come on. It seems there was a disagreement and the dealer did not
examine the car. Mr J complained to Hyundai and said he had encountered:
Smoke coming from the drivers side
A faulty gearbox
A faulty boot
A faulty tyre
Tracking issues and
Cosmetic issues.
He also said that he had been told that the car had been owned by Aston Martin, but he
discovered it had been a hire car. Mr J said he believed the car had been overpriced.
Hyundai arranged for an independent inspection. However, the inspector was unable to
carry out a meaningful inspection He said:
In our opinion after carrying out the examination we can confirm that the auxiliary belt has
broken and the battery is now in a fully discharged state. When the batterys use was
positioned in the boot, could not be accessed, as it was not possible to open the boot due to
the battery being in a fully discharged condition. As such were unable to confirm the reported
issues.
A second inspection was carried out a few weeks later. The inspector said:
We noted that the nearside wiring loom running along the nearside sill displayed a small
patch of burnt wiring. There was evidence of poor taped repairs to the wiring. We were
informed that the wiring loom has overheated and displayed smoke. As such water had been
poured on the wiring loom at some point.
We would conclude the wiring loom at the nearside sill area of the interior displays evidence
of overheating and burning. The cause of which is unclear. Further investigation is required
to confirm who carried out the repairs and what has caused the repairs and what has caused
the damage to the wiring loom.
The vehicle clearly would not have been in this condition at finance inception.
Hyundai rejected Mr Js complaint and said it didnt have evidence to show the issues were
present at the point of sale. Mr J brought his complaint to this service where it was
considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. She said that the car
should have been durable, but it suffered a fault within a day of being delivered. She also
noted further faults were referred to the dealer two days later.
Hyundai didnt agree and said the dealer had explained that Mr J had refused to let it look at
the car. It said he had become irate and it had not seen any faults. Hyundai added that it had
not told him the car had been owned by Aston Martin. The car had been on sale at their
Aston Martin dealership. It believed Mr J had changed his mind about the car was seeking
ways to return it.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I explained that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Hyundai is also the supplier of the goods
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I shared our investigators view in that the car should be durable and it should not have
suffered an issue within days of its sale. However, the evidence is far from clear as to what
faults the car was suffering from and what caused them. We had two different views as
to what happened when Mr J took the car back. Each party suggests the other was
responsible for it not being inspected and for the breakdown in the relationship.
On the one hand we had Mr Js claims that it suffered a number of faults and it seems there
is agreement that if he took it back within 30 days and if the car was faulty he was entitled to
reject it. I was satisfied that he did take it back and on balance I considered it likely that it 
was faulty. I did note that he was concerned that he had overpaid for it. That is not
something with which I would interfere. He entered into an agreement at a price he deemed
acceptable and if he changed his mind later that is not grounds for me upholding his
complaint.
Nor did I believe the car was misrepresented to him as being from Aston Martin. There may
have been some confusion and even a degree of misunderstanding, but I couldnt safely
conclude that there was any misrepresentation.
I noted that the car seemed to have suffered further damage while in Mr Js possession.
He signed an agreement which made him responsible for looking after the car and the two
reports by the inspectors suggest otherwise. It is not clear that this damage arose as a result
of an issue which was present at the point of sale. The dealer has suggested that it was
done by Mr J to enhance his claim. I cannot say if this is true.
On the other hand, we have the independent inspectors report that he does not consider the
damage would have been present at the point of sale. That may be true of some of thedamage, but I remained concerned that the car did have fundamental issues which were 
such that rejection was merited within 30 days.
On balance, I concluded that it was likely the car had faults at the point of sale that would
have allowed Mr J to reject it, but I didnt wholly agree with our investigators suggested
redress. Mr J drove the car for 3,617 miles and I thought he should be responsible for five
months payments. I also thought Hyundai has sought to assist Mr J and so while he may 
have had disagreements with the dealer I didnt consider Hyundai need pay him any 
additional compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J did not respond to the provisional decision. Hyundai disagreed on the basis the 
independent inspector concluded there were no faults likely to have been present at the 
point of sale. The issues the inspector had identified long after the sale were more likely to 
have occurred after the car had been sold. It said it was entitled to the right to effect a repair.
I have some sympathy with Hyundai in this matter, but I have concluded that on balance the 
car was most likely faulty at the point of sale. I appreciate that the car wasnt inspected when 
Mr J tried to return it, but I have to ask why he took it back immediately and sought rejection. 
Having invested in it only a few days earlier I think unlikely that he would seek to return the 
car unless it had faults.
I appreciate that the facts are somewhat cloudy and I have to reach a decision based on the 
evidence and information available to me. I have concerns that Mr Js apparent behaviour 
has not helped the situation, but even allowing for that he sought to return the car within 30 
days and did so on the basis it was faulty. He was entitled to do so and I believe that on 
balance I should uphold his complaint, but with the amendments to the redress set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
Mr J should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct Hyundai Capital UK Limited to:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr J.
Cancel the agreement with Mr J being liable for five months payments.
Remove the agreement and any adverse information from Mr Js credit file to date. If 
there are reasons to report further adverse information after this decision is 
implemented I consider Hyundai is entitled to do so
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman