DRN-1716939
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National at the time) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out to protect Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage repayments in 1998. The policy was in Mr Bs sole name and provided him with 
unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory (as some of it is here) Ive made my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  so based on what I thinks most likely given the information I have, and what 
we know about how Santander usually sold PPI at the time. As an independent and impartial 
organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumers or banks - theres no benefit for us 
to find in the favour of one party over the other.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here. Mr and Mrs B have responded in detail throughout the complaint 
investigation. In keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service, I will 
comment here only on the points I find to be material to the outcome.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say they were told by the bank PPI would help their application. Branch staff 
used the phrase "you will need PPI". Santander says it has never been a requirement for a 
customer to take a PPI policy with a mortgage. Santander no longer has the paperwork from 
the sale but thats not surprising or unreasonable given how long ago it was. 
I cant know with certainty how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs B, or what was said to 
Mr and Mrs B. But based on what we know about the banks sales process at the time Mr 
and Mrs B would have been given a booklet about the cover and then needed to sign a 
separate PPI application form and direct debit mandate if they wanted to go ahead. I have 
thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Bs comments and indeed considered their testimony as 
part of the evidence. But I also have to consider how long ago the sale was and how that 
might impact what they recall. Also, they selected only unemployment cover, not the more 
standard package of accident, sickness and unemployment. This suggests to me there was 
discussion about their options, they understood they had choices and selected the policy 
most fitting to their needs. Overall, without stronger evidence to the contrary, I think its most likely that it was made 
clear to Mr and Mrs B that they had a choice about whether to take the PPI, and that they 
agreed to take it out for Mr B. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had a responsibility to check that the 
cover was right for them. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for them, based on what 
Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time. Mr B was entitled to just statutory redundancy 
pay, and the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months for all 
unemployment claims. The insurers records show Mr B contacted them in March 2001 (not 
only in 2011 as he recalls) about a redundancy claim but then let them know the following 
month he had found new employment so did not need to proceed. 
Mr B also said he had excellent sick benefits of 12 months pay but this policy only gave 
unemployment protection so that is not relevant to my analysis. They also said they had an 
endowment policy and some life cover but these provide different benefits and would not 
help meet mortgage repayments in the same way as PPI. 
Mr B told us he had savings worth between £30,000 and £50,000 at the time, held both as 
cash savings jointly with his mother and as shares. It is not clear what the split was between 
cash savings and shares at the time of the sale. From the evidence I have seen some of the 
shares were also held jointly with his mother, some in his own name. We wouldn't consider 
shares suitable alternative protection as there is always a risk the value may fall and money 
may not be available. But, regardless, the PPI would have allowed Mr and Mrs B to use the 
savings they had access to for other living expenses whilst Mr B wasnt working, or to keep 
them intact for their future needs. 
Mr B has also told us about other income streams he had from royalties, lecturing and rental 
income his mother gave him from property in her name, but I dont think they were suitable 
alternative protection. I cant see they were guaranteed and people's circumstances can 
change. 
Mr and Mrs Bs borrowing was secured against their home. So the effects of not keeping up 
the repayments could have been serious for them. Overall, I think the PPI would have been 
useful for them if Mr B lost his job - I cant fairly conclude they had sufficient other means 
that meant they didnt have a need for the PPI.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs B all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. And Mr B has told us the policy documents were sent to the wrong 
address. I dont know when Santander made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. I also dont know that it pointed out the main things the 
policy didnt cover. But Mr B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
This means, overall, I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because of any problems with the sale. I 
know they have put a lot of time and effort into their complaint and I anticipate they will be 
disappointed by my conclusion. But based on all the available evidence I cant fairly 
conclude Santander mis-sold the PPI to them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman