DRN-2547821
The complaint
Mr C complains about the outcome of a claim he made to American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) regarding a purchase made using his credit card.
What happened
Mr C bought a chest of drawers from a supplier of furniture for childrens bedrooms using his 
credit card in October 2016. He wasnt happy with the drawers and the supplier didnt 
resolve the complaint he made to it (a goodwill offer from the supplier was refused and then 
withdrawn). So he made a claim to AESEL under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (Section 75).
In summary he says:
the supplier misrepresented the item by describing it as solid wood when it isnt
the item has chipped and is poorly made
he wants a full refund as he hasnt got what he ordered (solid wood)
AESEL did not uphold the Section 75 complaint. In summary, it said that because Mr Cs 
wife bought the furniture  she was the contracting party and not him. Which meant there 
wasnt the right debtor-creditor-supplier relationship for a valid Section 75 claim. It also said 
that in any event Mr C hadnt established a case for breach of contract or misrepresentation 
in respect of the furniture.
Mr C complained about the outcome of his claim but AESEL would not change its mind. So 
he brought the matter to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. In summary, he was satisfied the correct 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship was in place for a valid Section 75 claim. However, he 
wasnt persuaded the evidence showed the furniture was likely misrepresented or that it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Mr C asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. In summary he says:
the supplier confirms the items are solid wood in its correspondence 
the damage was reported as soon as it became apparent  it happened over time 
and couldnt have been reported any sooner
the drawers are very stiff to open and close  which has resulted in chipping
the product is low quality and not fit for purpose
drawers costing £500 should have lasted more than 2.5 years
the report confirms the furniture is of poor quality
it is fundamentally unfair that AESEL had asked for an expert report and then 
incorrectly refused the claim
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For simplicity any references in this decision to Mr C also include things said and done on 
his behalf by his wife, who has been representing him in this complaint.
Section 75 allows Mr C to hold AESEL responsible for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using his credit card. However,
there are certain technical requirements that have to be met for a Section 75 claim to be
valid. This might be in relation to the cost of the goods or services, the parties to the
transaction, or the way the payment was made.
It is not for me to determine the outcome of a Section 75 claim. That is something which
AESEL has considered. However, in deciding what is fair and reasonable I can look at
whether AESEL has acted fairly in its consideration of Mr Cs claim.
In order to decide what is fair and reasonable I have regard to the technical requirements
that need to be satisfied in order for a Section 75 claim to be valid. These are set out in the
Consumer Credit Act 1974. One of those requirements is for a debtor-creditor-supplier
agreement between the parties to the transaction.
AESEL has indicated that as Mr Cs wife appears on the order form there isnt an agreement 
with Mr C and the supplier of the furniture. However, it appears that in this case Mr C was 
closely involved in the decision to purchase a piece of furniture for the family home where he 
lives. He says he uses the furniture too, which I think is likely, even if not for his own clothing 
I expect he will be using the drawers to store family items. All in all I think in these particular 
circumstances the purchase relates to the joint affairs of both Mr C and his wife. And for that 
reason I consider there to be the required debtor-creditor-supplier agreement for a valid 
Section 75 claim.
Therefore, I have moved on to consider if there has likely been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the furniture.
The quality of the furniture
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. 
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
As far as I see there are two main issues:
chipping paint
a stiff drawerI have considered that the drawers were not inexpensive, and there will be a reasonable 
expectation around the durability of the item. But I note that Mr Cs complaint to the supplier 
about the current issues was made around August 2019 - almost 3 years after the purchase. 
Even accounting for a delivery lead time of several weeks this is a significant period of time. 
It makes it much more difficult for me to rule out expected wear and tear of a piece of 
childrens furniture or accidental damage as a factor here as opposed to an inherent 
fault/lack of durability with the drawers as sold. I acknowledge Mr C says he complained 
about the need for a replacement handle for one of the drawers early on  but this in itself 
isnt enough to persuade me that other issues are a result of inherent defects. So I have 
turned to the information about the specific matter in contention.
The chips on the paintwork appear to be both above and below the lower drawer. I expect 
they might be caused by a defective drawer as Mr C has indicated. But it is also feasible that 
a chest could develop these over several years through other wear and tear. While the small 
chips under the drawer are probably caused by said drawer I note that the chip above it 
looks unlikely to have been caused by it due to its size and position. The position of this chip 
and how the drawer could have caused this isnt clearly addressed in the expert report. 
However, even if I accept the drawer has caused some damage  I am still unclear as to 
how this is a result of an inherent defect with the furniture.
Mr C says the lower drawer is difficult to open and close easily. I have watched his video 
which shows the lower drawer is somewhat stiff and needs particular care to open and close.  
The supplier has said that the furniture is not faulty  it is in fact hand-made and uses 
stronger wooden runners rather than metal as they are less prone to damage. It said the 
stiffness is a maintenance issue and that wooden runners can be waxed to lubricate the 
motion of the drawer. It has added that improper use (such as overloading the drawer) could 
have contributed to cosmetic damage on the front of the set.
Mr C has indicated to the supplier that soon after acquiring the furniture he was aware of and 
prepared to overlook the issue with the way the bottom drawer opens. But if there were 
problems at the start I think it would have been fair to have raised the issue sooner, not only 
to prevent damage to the set, but also to make it easier to determine a likely fault with the 
furniture. As it stands there isnt persuasive evidence that the drawer had an initial problem 
and I think it likely Mr C would have raised it sooner if this was the case. I accept that 
problems can develop later on and still indicate an item isnt durable enough but due to the 
time elapsed there is more of a question mark over the root cause of the issue. And what the 
supplier said about waxing the runners to address the ease of opening and closing the 
drawer seems plausible. I am not persuaded that the requirement to do this in itself would 
necessarily make the drawers of unsatisfactory quality as it seems a general maintenance 
issue after a fair period of use. 
The expert report says the drawers are stiff and hard to open and close which has caused 
chipping to the front of the unit. He concludes that the drawers are of low quality and not fit 
for purpose.  I have carefully thought about this report. However, I dont find it persuasive 
enough in the circumstances. It is quite brief and doesnt in my view illustrate or fully explain 
the quality issues Mr C has mentioned. The expert says the drawers were originally sold as 
solid timber  but I am not sure how he would be able to conclude that as there isnt a copy 
of the original description. He doesnt include his credentials either. And there is little detail 
to support claims around the materials used and the quality of the internal rails. It isnt clear if 
the expert is aware of the age of the drawers at the time of doing the report either, as I would 
expect this to be addressed when considering the condition of the furniture, wear and 
durability. And while he says he doesnt think the damage is a result of improper use  he 
doesnt directly address why or the points the supplier made.I know that Mr C indicted that AESEL acted unfairly by asking for a report and then refused 
the claim  but I dont think there are any guarantees that a report will get money back. And 
ultimately (considering the significant time passed since sale) I think it was down to 
Mr C to provide persuasive evidence that the issues are down to an inherent defect of some 
kind.
I accept that the drawers are not inexpensive, and that Mr C says he has used these 
normally. However, particularly in light of how long this issue has taken to come to light and 
other plausible reasons why the drawer is more difficult to open and close I wouldnt say the 
evidence submitted persuasively shows the item is inherently defective. Overall, and on 
balance I am not persuaded the goods as supplied were not of satisfactory quality. 
Misrepresentation
Mr C says the furniture was misrepresented by being described as solid wood when in fact 
the product is manufactured using MDF.
The supplier has denied it claimed the items are entirely made of solid wood. It says the 
items are a composite product using solid wood and MDF. It says this is how the items 
would have been described for sale.
Mr C points to an email from the supplier in response to his original complaint about the 
drawers which mentions solid wood but fails to mention the MDF element. He says this 
shows the goods were wrongly described as solid wood.
It is difficult to know exactly what was represented at the point of sale as we dont have a 
copy of the product description. I appreciate that the supplier mentioned solid wood in a 
shorthand email several years after the purchase when talking about the paintwork issues 
raised but I dont think in this context it persuades me that it used only this descriptor at the 
point of sale. This is important. A misrepresentation is a statement that induces you into a 
transaction you otherwise would not have made  it cant be something said years after the 
sale.
The supplier doesnt sell that exact chest of drawers anymore. But I can see that a similar 
model is described as a combination of MDF and solid pine. Which does suggest that the 
furniture Mr C bought was described in the same way.
However, in any event, I note that when Mr C approached the supplier the complaint wasnt 
about a misleading description applied at the point of sale. The emphasis on this appeared 
to come in after the supplier mentioned solid wood in response to the initial complaint about 
paintwork. After this (and before getting the expert report) Mr C indicated it was obvious the 
drawers were not completely solid wood yet they were advertised as such. But, if the 
description of 100% solid wood had likely been made at the point of sale (and also been a 
significantly clear and compelling factor in the purchase) I would have expected this to have 
been raised with the supplier sooner. 
Taking into account the circumstances here, and the relevant law, I consider, on balance 
that there hasnt been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the 
drawers. So, with Section 75 in mind, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask 
AESEL to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2021.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman