DRN-3348257
The complaint
Mr L says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr L took out a 36-month instalment loan for £3,500 on 24 September 2018. The monthly
repayment was £195.52 and the total repayable was £7,038.72. 
Mr L says the loan was unaffordable and he suffered financial hardship as a result.
The adjudicator upheld Mr Ls complaint. He said ELL did not make a fair lending decision 
based on the results of the checks it completed.
ELL did not respond to this assessment, so the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when ELL lent to Mr L. Its rules 
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged ELL to
lend responsibly. Amongst other things, ELL was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Mr L could afford to repay what he owed in a 
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr L. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr L, and have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ls loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did ELL make a fair lending decision?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
ELL asked for some information from Mr L before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of his income and estimated his monthly costs using national statistics. It asked
for copies of his bank statements to verify his salary. It reviewed his credit file to understand 
his credit history and existing commitments. It also asked about the purpose of the loan 
which was for a holiday. From these checks combined ELL concluded that Mr L would have 
monthly disposable income of £33.87 after taking on this loan and so it was fair to lend.
I agree with the adjudicator that the checks ELL completed were proportionate, but I dont
think it reacted appropriately to the data it gathered when it made its lending decision. Ill
explain why.
ELLs affordability assessment showed Mr L would be left with £33.87 disposable income 
each month. This loan was over a three-year term and I dont think it was reasonable to 
leave him with that amount of money to cover all unplanned and seasonal cost for such a 
considerable period of time. I think ELL, as a responsible lender, ought to have realised this 
meant there was a significant risk the loan would not be sustainably affordable. In addition, 
giving the loan meant Mr L would be increasing the amount of his income he needed to 
spend on his monthly credit commitments to a significant level. And this should also have 
indicated to ELL that it was most likely Mr L would have problems making his repayments 
sustainably.
 
It follows I think ELL was wrong to lend to Mr L.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr L to repay the capital amount that he borrowed as he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that
shouldnt have been given to him. So he has lost out and ELL needs to put things right.
It should:
Refund all the interest and charges on the loan  so add up the total Mr L repaid and 
deduct the sum from the capital amount.If reworking Mr Ls loan account results in him having effectively made
payments above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ls loan account results in an outstanding capital balance, ELL should 
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr L.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit files in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr L 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ls complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans, must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman