DRN-2304170
The complaint
Mr G complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Advice Services Limited (LV) gave him 
incorrect and misleading advice about how he could take benefits from his Section 32 Buy 
Out Plan.
What happened
In early 2016, shortly before he turned 67, Mr G was looking to access funds from his 
Section 32 pension he held with Phoenix Life. The only form to access his benefits through 
Phoenix Life was to take an annuity. Mr G was interested to transfer his pension to another 
plan where he could access benefits more flexibly. LV advised Mr G that a transfer would be 
suitable. However, as his fund in the Section 32 plan would be guaranteed to increase from 
£84,751.95 to £96,748.23 at age 70, he was told he should stay in the Section 32 plan until 
age 70 and review his options then. Mr G paid £450 plus VAT for this advice.
Mr G raised concerns with LV again a few weeks after they gave their advice. He told the 
adviser he was told his Section 32 plan was underfunded, so he couldnt transfer and would 
have the same problems at age 70.  He was worried he could give up three years of benefits 
from the Section 32 plan with no possibility of transferring later. However, he was reassured 
by LV that they couldnt envisage the outcome being not being able to transfer and he could 
come back to LV for advice at age 70.
When Mr G contacted LV in 2019, he again paid for advice (£450 including VAT). Mr G was 
informed he couldnt transfer from the Section 32 Plan and this wouldnt be possible for the 
foreseeable future. Phoenix Life also confirmed to LV that a transfer wouldnt have been 
possible in 2016 either. 
Mr G complained to LV. He said he lost out on taking benefits from his Section 32 Plan in 
order to transfer to another plan and take more flexible benefits. However, this has never 
been possible. He says he also started paying for building works as he expected to get a 
higher tax free cash lump sum after the transfer.
LV agreed that their adviser didnt handle the transfer request well and based her 
recommendation on incorrect information. They acknowledged that the adviser should have 
checked with Phoenix Life whether there would be a problem transferring. However, they 
also blamed Phoenix Life for not making it clear a transfer wasnt possible and said that as 
Mr G obviously had concerns at the time it would have been reasonable for him to have 
checked with Phoenix Life himself. They offered Mr G £450 in compensation.
Mr G referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think LV had offered 
enough in compensation. He didnt think it was fair to expect Mr G to check whether a 
transfer was possible with Phoenix Life when he was paying LV for advice. He thought if LV 
had told him in 2016 that a transfer wasnt possible and likely wouldnt be in future, he would 
have taken tax free cash and a reduced annuity from the Section 32 plan in 2016. 
The investigator originally asked LV to calculate the total payments Mr G would have 
received from 2016 until the date of settlement, net of his marginal rate of tax (presumed to 
be 20%), and add 8% simple interest to these payments as Mr G has been deprived of these 
funds. He also asked LV to make up any future losses (if the current annuity Mr G could 
receive was lower than the one in 2016). In addition he asked LV to pay £200 for Mr Gs 
distress and inconvenience caused by this matter as well as £450 he paid for further advice 
from LV in 2019. The investigator didnt think it was reasonable to expect LV to cover Mr Gs 
building costs as they had never guaranteed that a transfer would happen and Mr G 
effectively acted prematurely.
Both parties accepted this and LV started calculating the redress. They noted that at the time 
(in May 2020) Mr G could have got tax free cash (TFC) of £3,065.03 and a pension of 
£5,096.76 p.a., so he didnt suffer a future loss on the annuity as it was now higher than in 
2016. They pointed out that if they fully compensated Mr G for his past losses, then he would 
be in a better position than if he had received the correct advice. That is because he would 
be compensated for three years of missed benefits, but at the same time benefitted from 
higher annuity payments going forward which he wouldnt have had. They suggested it was 
fairer to work out how much in benefits Mr G would have received at age 84 (using average 
life assumptions) if he had taken benefits in 2016 or 2020 and pay him the difference. As a 
gesture of goodwill they offered to use age 80 instead of 84 which would lead to higher 
redress.
Our investigator agreed with LV this was a reasonable approach and asked them to 
compensate Mr G accordingly. However, it seems this wasnt really communicated to Mr G 
which I apologise for.
Mr G disagreed LVs suggested redress method was fair. He said he didnt know how long 
he would live and it wasnt reasonable to expect him to wait until 2029 to be fully 
compensated. He said this method was more concerned with making sure he wasnt being 
overcompensated than to seek redress for the errors in advice he was given. He also noted 
that LV had used lower figures for the 2016 benefits for the redress calculations than the 
ones used in LVs advice report at the time.
Mr G said this wasnt the redress he had agreed to and so the complaint was referred to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the facts of the case are largely undisputed and LV has accepted that their adviser 
gave Mr G incorrect information in 2016. Its been accepted that Mr G likely would have 
taken tax free cash and an annuity from his Section 32 Buy Out Plan in 2016 if it had been 
made clear to him that he couldnt transfer his pension elsewhere at that point and that it 
was likely this would continue to be the case as the plan was underfunded. I agree with the 
investigators opinion here and as LV has accepted this outcome Im not going to dwell on 
this further. The outstanding issue to resolve is how to compensate Mr G which is what Ill 
focus on.
Phoenix Life have confirmed that if Mr G had taken his benefits on 24 February 2016 (the 
day LVs adviser emailed Mr G with the outcome of her advice), he would have received a 
tax free cash lump sum (TFC) of £5,620.69 and a pension of £4,006.32 pa. I appreciate 
these figures are lower than the ones quoted by Phoenix Life on 25 January 2016. However, 
these figures came from illustrations which were never guaranteed. The exact pension 
values would have always changed between the illustration and when pension benefits were 
actually taken. The illustrations explain this. This is nothing unusual and is due to the underlying funds changing in value all the time and possible changes in annuity rates or 
bonuses for with profits policies. So Im satisfied that using the figures quoted by Phoenix for 
the 24 February 2016 is fair and reflects more accurately what Mr G could have received in 
2016.
I also agree with LV that going forward Mr G will benefit of a higher annuity income than he 
would have had if he had taken benefits in 2016, so after a certain period of time hell be 
overcompensated. I want to be clear that this services aim is to put Mr G as much as 
possible in the position hed be in if LVs error had not occurred. It isnt our role to punish LV 
or request them to pay compensation for financial losses that havent occurred. The fact that 
future annuity payments are paid by Phoenix Life and not LV is also not relevant here. It 
matters that Mr G is put into the same position (as far as possible) he would be in without 
LVs mistake and not how this is achieved. Phoenix Life will always pay Mr Gs benefits and 
the fact that the benefits he can now access will be higher should be taken into account.
I generally dont consider it unreasonable to offset future gains with past losses or vice 
versa. So simply ignoring that Mr G will benefit from a higher annuity wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable here. I think offsetting Mr Gs gains until age 80-which is below the average life 
expectancy for men of Mr Gs age- seems fair in the circumstances. I appreciate its possible 
Mr G might die before this age which is still eight years away from now. However, on the 
balance of probabilities and taking life expectancies into account he likely will live to at least 
this age and possibly longer (at which point he will be overcompensated). And for five of 
those years his higher annuity would be paid to his beneficiaries. So I think overall this is fair 
and reasonable and doesnt leave Mr G with an unreasonable risk to be undercompensated.
Im assuming Mr G hasnt taken benefits yet. So I expect LV to request updated values from 
Phoenix Life what benefits Mr G can receive now. Mr G should let LV know how he wants to 
take his benefits (TFC plus reduced annuity or full annuity). LV have offered to set this up for 
him. The amounts Mr G receives should be the base for the calculations below.
Putting things right
 Ive set out below how I think Mr G should be fairly compensated. LV should calculate 
Mr Gs compensation as follows:
A) Past losses
These are the payments Mr G would have received to date if he had received correct advice.
Mr Gs past losses are:
Annuity of £4,006.32 per year (£333.86 per month) paid for 61 months from Feb 2016 to 
date of this decision, adjusted for income tax of 20% plus tax free cash and then add 8% 
simple interest from the date each payment would have been made to the date of this final 
decision.
(£333.86 x 61 months x 0.8 basic rate tax) + £5,620.69= £21,913.06 (plus 8% simple 
interest*)
*Interest payments are subject to income tax. If LV makes a deduction for income tax, it 
should tell Mr G how much they have taken off and provide a tax deduction certificate for the 
consumer if asked to do so.The above assumes Mr G hasnt taken benefits yet. If Mr G has already taken benefits from 
his Section 32 plan, the calculation for past losses should stop at the date he received his 
first benefit payment.
B) Future gains
These are benefits Mr R can receive going forward and which are above what he would 
have received in 2016. If Mr G chooses to take TFC, the full new TFC amount should be 
calculated as future gain as the full amount for TFC in 2016 has already been considered for 
past losses under A). Once LV has received the new current benefit figures from Phoenix 
Life, Mr Gs gains should be calculated using these new figures. 
New TFC (if chosen)+ [ ((new annuity payment-£4,006.32) x 0.8 basic income tax) x 8 years 
(from now until age 80) 
The above assumes Mr G hasnt taken benefits yet. If Mr G has already taken benefits from 
his Section 32 plan, the calculation for future gains should use the amounts Mr G actually 
receives and the length the new annuity will be paid will be calculated from the time Mr G 
started taking benefits until he reaches 80.
C) LV should then deduct the future gains in B) from the past losses in A) and pay Mr G 
the resulting sum. 
D) In addition I agree with the investigator that LV should pay Mr G £650 (distress and 
inconvenience payment of £200 plus the second adviser fee of £450), but no 
additional payments for Mr Gs building costs.
My final decision
 I uphold Mr Gs complaint and ask Liverpool Victoria Financial Advice Services Limited to 
compensate Mr G as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman