DRN-3312903
The complaint
Mr S complains Paysafe Financial Services Limited (Paysafe), trading as Neteller, unfairly 
charged fees on his account and then closed it.
What happened 
Mr S opened his Paysafe account in 2018 and credited his account. After January 2019 no 
further credits were made to the account. 
In June 2020, Paysafe charged a dormancy fee as Mr S hadnt used the account for some 
time. Around that time, Mr S was asked to send his identity documents to Paysafe. Once he 
had done this, Paysafe decided to close Mr S account and charged him an administration 
fee which cleared his remaining account balance. 
Unhappy with what Paysafe did, Mr S complained. In short, Paysafe said it had placed a 
temporary restriction on Mr S account and following an internal audit, it had decided to close 
the account. Paysafe also said it had charged Mr S an administrative fee in line with its 
general terms of use. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into the matter 
and in summary they found: 
- Paysafe was entitled to carry out a review of Mr S account given the legal and 
regulatory obligations it has to comply with 
- Paysafe had sufficient concerns to immediately end its relationship with Mr S  so the 
account was closed fairly 
- The dormancy fee was applied in line with the terms of the account 
- In terms of the administrative fee, Paysafe have not demonstrated how it calculated 
this fee. Charges imposed should be clear, transparent and proportionate. Paysafe 
failed to do that in this case
Paysafe did not agree with our Investigator. So, the complaint has now been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Financial businesses like Paysafe are strictly regulated in the UK and must take certain 
actions to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing customers accounts.
Having looked at Paysafes reasons for reviewing and then restricting Mr S account, Im 
satisfied it acted fairly by doing so. 
Similarly, Paysafe is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account 
with it. But before it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Paysafe and Mr S had to comply with, say it 
could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Paysafe, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the account in the way that it has done. Neither Paysafe nor I are under any obligation that 
Im aware of to disclose the exact reason. The applicable terms can be found on Netellers 
website and relates to section 16: https://www.neteller.com/en/policies/terms-of-use. 
This now brings me onto whether Paysafe has acted fairly in charging Mr S the dormancy 
fee and later, an administration fee which cleared the account. 
Ive closely reviewed Paysafes terms and conditions, and note it says Your NETELLER 
Account is free for personal use as long as you login or make a transaction at least every 6 
months. If you don't do this, a monthly service fee of USD 5.00 (or equivalent) will be 
deducted monthly from the available funds in your Account
Mr S hadnt used his account for around 12 months. So I think Paysafe applied its terms 
fairly when debiting the fee for the account being dormant for as long as it was.  
Paysafe charged Mr S an administration fee which, using current exchange rates, is roughly 
equivalent to about £6. Paysafe has pointed to the terms of the policy to show why it did this. 
The terms related to charging such a fee say:  
14.4. It is strictly forbidden to use your Account for any illegal purposes including but 
not limited to fraud and money laundering. We will investigate and report any 
suspicious activity to the relevant law enforcement agency. We reserve the right to 
charge you in our sole discretion an administration fee as displayed in the "Fees" 
section of the Website for every investigation into any such suspicious activity. You 
are prohibited from using your Account in an attempt to abuse, exploit or circumvent 
the usage restrictions imposed by a merchant or a Third Party Provider on the 
services it provides.
14.6. If you conduct or attempt to conduct any transaction in violation of the 
prohibitions contained in this section 14 or without the necessary approval under 
section 14.5, we reserve the right to: reverse the transaction; and/or close or 
suspend your Account; and/or report the transaction to the relevant law enforcement 
agency; and/or claim damages from you; and charge you an administration fee as 
displayed in the "Fees" section of the Website if we apply any of the above.
The associated Fees page then says Paysafe can charge up to 150 US dollars as an 
administration fee. As the fee is something Paysafe can charge at its discretion, I need to 
consider if I think it has exercised this discretion both fairly and reasonably. And, in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint, if it has applied the term fairly. 
Having carefully considered this, Im persuaded Paysafe hasnt. I say that because I dont think Paysafe has carried out enough of an investigation to warrant applying this fee. Given 
its concerns, I would have expected it to have asked Mr S questions to understand what has 
happened  and whether there is a plausible reason behind it. I cant see that Paysafe did 
this, so I question if its done enough to constitute an investigation as per the term. 
So, because of that Ive decided the administration fee should be refunded to Mr S. 
My final decision
Ive decided to partially uphold this complaint for the reasons given above. To put things 
right, Paysafe Financial Services Limited must refund Mr S the administration fee it charged 
along with 8% statutory interest from when it debited the account up until settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman