DRN-2965582
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected their 
claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr and Mrs L bought solar panels for their home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr 
and Mrs L into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Shawbrook made an offer to settle the complaint. But its redress offer didnt take into 
account that Mr and Mrs L had settled their loan with Shawbrook early by taking out finance 
with a different provider. Mr and Mrs L felt the offer did not fully compensate them for their 
losses.
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr and Mrs L, and that fair redress would be 
for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure 
should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of 
assumptions on future performance. She explained Shawbrook should take into account the 
losses Mr and Mrs L incurred with the refinance loan they took with an alternative provider in 
order to fully compensate them. Shawbrook didnt respond so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr and Mrs L was not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for them.
So, I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr and Mrs L fairly and they lost out because of what 
Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Shawbrook needs to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs L
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating 
the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs L 
from the solar panels over the term of the loan so they pay no more than that, and they keep 
the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs L are paying (or have paid) more than 
they should have Shawbrook needs to reimburse Mr and Mrs L accordingly. Should the 
calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mr and Mrs L by way of explanation.  
I understand Mr and Mrs L have settled the loan early, so Shawbrook offered to pay Mr and 
Mrs L the difference between what they paid in total and what the loan should have been 
under the restructure above, with 8% interest. They also rounded the redress offer up to 
£2,000. 
But Mr and Mrs L have said they settled the loan by refinancing. As our adjudicator 
explained, because Mr and Mrs L have settled the loan by refinancing, I think Mr and Mrs L 
should supply evidence of the refinance to Shawbrook, and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs L paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs L receive their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs L paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs L receive their 
refund.
5. Pay Mr and Mrs L the difference between the amount now owed and the amount they 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
If the above calculation results in a redress figure amounting to less than £2,000, then like 
our adjudicator said, I would expect Shawbrook to honour its original offer of £2,000. So 
Shawbrook should pay Mr and Mrs L, the higher amount of either £2,000 or the redress 
amount using the calculation above. 
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs L first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld and redress offered in 
line with our well-established approach (as described above). I direct that Shawbrook should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Shawbrook Bank 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman