DRN-3614390
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money she was tricked into sending 
to another person.
What happened
Mrs C met someone (that Ill call S) while they were both working overseas. Shed known 
him for about seven years. They became good friends and she visited him in India on 
several occasions.
Mrs C occasionally helped S financially and he provided emotional support to her while she 
cared for her husband, who sadly passed away in 2018. The following month S proposed to 
Mrs C and asked her to move to India. Mrs C thought that the proposal had come too soon 
but did agree to marry S in June 2019. 
S suggested that Mrs C sell her house so that the two could purchase a property in India. 
This made sense to Mrs C as she was struggling to find work and S ran a business there. 
In March 2021 Mrs C sold her house. S sent her a video of an apartment which would 
require a heavy deposit of £65,000. Mrs C sent two payments to S bank in India - 
£49,319.44 on 2 March 2021 and £14,808.93 on 3 March 2021.
The transactions didnt trigger HSBCs security systems, but the intermediary bank 
contacted it with questions about the transactions. HSBC had a conversation with Mrs C 
about, among other things, the purpose of the payments and her relationship with the 
recipient.
 
Because of these checks, the payments werent released until 13 and 16 March 2021. Mrs C 
spoke to the bank in the intervening period on numerous occasions and stressed the need 
for the payments to be made as soon as possible owing to the threat that she and S might 
lose out on the property. By 18 March 2021 Mrs C was unable to contact S and he 
subsequently informed her that hed married someone else. Mrs C was told by a mutual 
friend that hed gotten married the day before he sent the video of the apartment. 
Mrs C contacted HSBC, the police and Action Fraud. HSBC said it would try to recover her 
funds and told Mrs C that the funds had been frozen in S account and she could expect to 
have them returned. However, later it said that it hadnt received any responses from the 
recipient bank. Mrs C tried to contact the beneficiary bank directly. It said it would freeze S 
account and asked for 90 days in order to investigate. She didnt hear anything back at the 
end of that period. Eventually the receiving bank said that it hadnt heard back from HSBC 
and asked her to provide contact details for HSBC so it could resolve the matter directly.  
Mrs C complained to HSBC. It acknowledged that it had given her inconsistent and unhelpful 
information which had inappropriately raised her expectations of receiving the funds back. It 
did not comment on its liability for the payments but paid Mrs C £200 in compensation to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs C referred the matter to our service but one of our investigators didnt uphold the 
complaint. They thought that HSBC ought to have recognised the potential risk of financial 
harm from fraud and discussed the payments with Mrs C before they left her account, but 
they didnt think that any conversation would have made a difference to Mrs Cs decision to 
go ahead. They also didnt think that HSBC could have done anything else to try and recover 
Mrs Cs money.
Mrs C didnt agree, in summary she said:
- The investigators view was based on opinion, rather than facts. She believes that, 
had the bank questioned her further about the payments, they would have been 
concerned, particularly around how little she knew about the property and the amount 
she was sending just for a rental payment.
- She disagreed that HSBC had done everything it could to pursue the funds from the 
receiving bank. She pointed to the fact that she chased for an update every few days 
and was told conflicting information, including that shed receive the money back.
- She also provided evidence of a response from the receiving bank. She explained 
that shed been in contact with that bank herself and it said that it had tried to contact 
HSBC but hadnt received a response. And, HSBC refused to provide contact details 
for her to pass on. 
- Taking the above into account, she didnt think that the compensation offered was 
sufficient. She says she spent more than £200 on phone calls alone and that HSBCs 
actions have caused further distress to her at an already very difficult time.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mrs C  I cant imagine how distressing it 
must have been to have been tricked out of such a large sum of money by someone she 
thought she knew well, could trust and planned to marry. But, I can only consider the actions 
of HSBC and, having thought about this matter carefully, Im afraid that I cant agree that 
HSBC are responsible for refunding any of her loss. Ill explain why. 
Theres no disagreement that Mrs C carried out the transactions in dispute, albeit under 
deception. Under the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR 
2017), that means she is responsible for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im surprised that HSBC didnt pick up on these transactions as being unusual and 
suspicious  they are clearly out of character for Mrs C. In the six months before the 
payments, I cant see any transactions of comparable size. Neither can I see any other 
international payments. So, I think the activity presented as being suspicious and warranted 
questioning.
A number of conversations did take place before the payments credited the beneficiary 
account, albeit for different reasons  because the intermediary bank had regulatory 
questions about them and because of subsequent delays to the payments being received. 
Ive heard those conversations. My impression is that Mrs C initially sounds relaxed, 
confident and optimistic about the future she is planning. In later calls Mrs C becomes 
increasingly frustrated  but that frustration and worry is in relation to the delay in the 
payments being received  not the circumstances overall. 
Mrs C also comes across as being knowledgeable (revealing that she previously worked for 
the bank) and mentions details like the fact shes seen the apartment over a video call. 
While a conversation about the risk of fraud would have been different in nature  focussing 
on the potential risk of financial harm from the transaction  I dont think HSBC would have 
been left any more concerned. 
That finding inevitably involves a certain amount of speculation as no warning was provided. 
Id expect bank staff to be trained to recognise the features of common scams and, if such 
features appear to be present, to give a warning explaining what the risks were and how to 
avoid them.
Common scams include fraudsters selling fake investments, impersonating trusted 
organisations or people known to the victim and those in which the fraudster feigns a 
romantic interest in the victim. In each case, the scam tends to have certain features  
because the same techniques are used time and time again by fraudsters. 
But this wasnt a common scam, it was rather unique to Mrs Cs circumstances. And, even if 
the bank had discussed the possibility of a romance scam and tried to ask questions to 
ascertain whether Mrs Cs circumstances shared the typical features of such a scam, I dont 
think they would have been unduly concerned.
Mrs C had known S for many years, shed visited him in person and hed visited her and 
shed agreed to marry him and move to India. I think this information would have satisfied 
the bank that the relationship was real and, if necessary, Mrs C would have been able to 
provide evidence to demonstrate this. 
Mrs C points to several aspects of what she did say which she thinks ought to have caused it 
some concern. I understand her comments here, but even if I was to accept that the bank 
did or ought to have had knowledge about what would have been a reasonable price for a 
property rental in India, its hard to see how this line of questioning would have led to Mrs C 
reconsidering what was a significant personal decision which Im sure shed have considered 
very carefully before making the payments. At best, HSBC might have been able to express 
mild concern about the transaction. What did happen later was, it appears, largely 
unforeseeable and a complete shock. Im not sure even a very detailed conversation, going 
significantly beyond what could reasonably be expected, would have revealed what was 
going to happen.That means, unfortunately, Im unable to hold HSBC liable for Mrs Cs loss on this basis.
Ive thought carefully about HSBCs actions in attempting to recover Mrs Cs loss. Its first 
important to say that, in my experience, the prospect of recovering money that has been 
sent to another country is very low. 
I can see that HSBC did attempt to recall the funds. Though no significant amount of detail 
about the circumstances was provided, its original interbank message did say that the recall 
was due to fraud. 
HSBC received a response from the intermediary that said the receiving bank (which Ill call 
K) required an indemnity to return the funds. This was provided by HSBC to the 
intermediary, which said it forwarded the indemnity on to K.
Following that exchange of messages, which concluded by July 2021, HSBC dont, despite 
several follow up messages, appear to have received a substantive response until 
December 2021 (several months after this complaint had been referred to our service). 
That response said that the beneficiary account had been blocked since July 2021, the 
beneficiary was uncontactable and the balance was not available. It also gave the contact 
details of a specific person for HSBC to contact to resolve the matter. 
I know that Mrs C has made her own enquiries with K and it asked her to provide contact 
details for someone at HSBC for it to contact directly. 
Ive been in touch with HSBC and Mrs C in advance of my final decision about this point. 
While Im limited to considering the events which Mrs C originally complained about, I asked 
HSBC to contact K using the contact details provided in the December 2021 interbank 
message. It did that in early January 2023. However, no response has been received.
 
Im generally satisfied with HSBCs actions in relation to the recovery of funds. It attempted 
to recall the payments and, when asked, it provided an indemnity (something it isnt required 
to do). That recall request did mention fraud and there isnt any obligation on HSBC to 
pursue the matter outside of the interbank messaging system. 
But, even if HSBC had acted more quickly or gone further, Im not persuaded this would 
have made a difference. It remains to be seen whether K will provide any further substantive 
response to HSBC but, as it stands, its unclear why it hasnt responded to HSBC through 
the interbank messaging system or to more recent direct contact. I understand that it has 
asked Mrs C for contact details for someone at HSBC, but banks have established 
processes for the return of funds, so such a request strikes me as unusual. 
Mrs C suggests that HSBCs intermediary bank or teams within HSBC itself may not have 
always passed on the responses it received from K or messages from HSBC. I wouldnt 
expect HSBC to be able to provide messages that the intermediary sent or received (though 
that bank is HSBCs entity in India, it does not fall under our jurisdiction), but Im also 
conscious that, despite more recent direct contact with K, that bank has still not responded.
So, there isnt enough evidence for me to conclude that HSBC failed to pass on messages to 
its intermediary and I cannot consider the actions of the intermediary itself. 
Overall, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly in its attempts to recover Mrs Cs funds and Im 
sceptical as to whether any action it could have taken would have led to their return. Mrs C 
is, however, free to raise a separate complaint about the events that took place after her 
original complaint. Im surprised and disappointed that HSBCs staff told Mrs C that she would receive her 
money back. I can only imagine how frustrating and disappointing it would have been to 
have been told this, only for it not to turn out to be true. I can also see that she had to 
continually chase the bank. And, while understandable in the circumstances, Im not sure all 
of this chasing was strictly necessary, it does appear there were times when HSBC could 
have taken steps more quickly  particularly in supplying the indemnity to the receiving bank.  
But, its clear that the majority of the distress has been caused by S, not HSBC and I think 
the compensation already paid fairly reflects the impact of HSBCs actions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman