DRN-3555455
The complaint
Mr T, who is represented by a third party, complains that NewDay, trading as Aqua (Aqua), 
irresponsibly granted him a credit card account he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr T entered into an agreement with Aqua to have access to credit by way of a credit card 
account. The account was opened in April 2017 with a credit limit of £300. This increased to 
£1,300 in October 2017, £2,700 in January 2018, £3,950 in July 2018 and finally £5,450 in 
December 2018. 
Mr T got into difficulty with his account in early 2020. In November 2020 he entered into a 
payment plan with Aqua. In December 2020 the account was sold to a third party. 
Mr T says that Aqua didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened his 
account. He says if it had, it would have seen that each agreement wasnt affordable for him 
as he didnt have enough income to make repayments.
Aqua said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to check Mr Ts 
financial circumstances before granting him the card account and each of the credit limit 
increases.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Aqua didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving each of the accounts. 
Mr T didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before opening the account I think Aqua gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mr T about his ability to repay. I say this because it asked for details about 
his income, job and other information relating to his financial situation, including details about 
money he owed elsewhere. Aqua also completed a credit check which showed no adverse 
information. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence 
and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Aqua gathered. Having done so Im satisfied that 
the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable to 
Mr T. I say this because Mr T was at the time earning £32,000 a year and whilst he had a 
number of credit accounts he only owed a relatively modest sum of £2,700 in unsecured 
debt. Mr T did not appear overly reliant on cash borrowing and had not had any recent 
arrears, account defaults and had no County Court judgments. Our adjudicator noted a 
historical default and a public record that could be suggestive of financial difficulty but I 
agree that this wasnt sufficiently close to the date of the agreement to be something that 
might be considered relevant to his financial situation at that point.   
All of this suggests he was likely to have been in a financially stable position at the time. For 
these reasons, I dont think Aqua acted unfairly when approving the finance application.
Before it gave Mr T each of the credit limit increases, I think Aqua gathered a reasonable 
amount of evidence and information from Mr T about his ability to repay. 
For the first credit limit increase, whilst Mr T had increased the overall number of accounts 
where he had unsecured borrowing, this was still relatively low and he hadnt defaulted or 
missed payments. 
By the time of the second credit limit increase, Mr T was continuing to manage his account 
well and was making more than minimum payments each month. His borrowing elsewhere 
raised no real cause for concern  he had reduced the number of accounts he was using - 
with his debt level only marginally higher than where it was at the time of the first credit limit 
increase. 
At the time that Aqua gave him his third credit limit increase, Mr T was still managing his 
account well. Hed increased his overall level of unsecured borrowing further with three more 
accounts and I can see that his level of debt had increased significantly. However, the sums 
he owed had been decreasing further with no evidence that he might be getting into financial 
difficulty. 
From then up to the point of his fourth and final credit limit increase, Mr T continued to 
manage his account well and made monthly payments that were well above the minimum 
required. He briefly went into arrears with his Aqua account in the month before the 
increase, but brought the account up to date again with the next payment. His overall level of 
debt had increase slightly but Mr T still appeared to have reasonable control of all his 
unsecured borrowing.  
In summary, the evidence and information Ive seen overall demonstrates that Mr T appears 
to have had enough disposable income each month to make regular, sustainable 
repayments towards each of these credit limit increases. I also note that he never used the 
account for cash withdrawals. Having completed proportionate checks, I therefore think its 
likely Aqua would have discovered all this too. It therefore didnt act unfairly by increasing 
Mr Ts credit limit on each occasion. 
So, whilst I cant say that Aquas actions were necessarily appropriate at all times, I dont 
think Aquas actions in opening the account and for each of the four credit limit increases 
was enough to cause Mr T to lose out.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman