DRN-3607688
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt do enough to protect him when he 
fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry that Mr T has been the victim of a cruel scam, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that the funds were ultimately lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute 
that Mr T authorised the payments from his HSBC debit card account, albeit not 
realising he was being scammed. So, the starting position  in line with the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017  is that hes liable for the transactions.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id 
expect HSBC to have systems in place to monitor for indications of fraud. In some 
circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional checks 
before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold HSBC liable. 
Ive considered whether HSBC ought to have made additional checks on the 
disputed payments. And I dont think it ought to have. I say this because each of the 
payments were made to the same recipient - a legitimate cryptocurrency provider. 
The payments also started off small (around £174) and increased over time. By the 
time the largest payment  of around £3,022  was made, five payments had already 
been made, all on separate days, so a pattern of spending had emerged. And while 
Im not saying this is a low payment, its not an amount which Id consider to be 
significantly unusual or out of character, especially when considered alongside these 
other factors.
So, while Mr T believes that appropriate intervention would have caused the scam to 
unravel, I cant fairly say that these payments should have triggered HSBCs fraud 
alert systems. So it wouldnt be fair to hold HSBC to what would have happened had 
they done so. 
I do note that an early payment was blocked, requiring Mr T to call HSBC. But this 
payment wasnt blocked due to concerns linked to fraud prevention. Evidence, 
including the call itself, suggests it was blocked due to computer cookies which 
prevented the card authorisation pop-up and subsequent code being sent, to allow 
the transaction to be verified. So, I dont think its fair to say it should have made 
additional checks around the purpose of the payment when, as outlined above, I 
dont believe it should have triggered, nor did it actually trigger, HSBCs fraud alert 
systems. 
I also note that one of the later payments made put Mr T into his overdraft. But the 
payment that caused this was to a now-known beneficiary; less than half of the 
overdraft limit was used and Mr T added funds to the account the following day. So, 
given this, I dont think the temporary use of Mr Ts overdraft should have triggered 
the fraud alert systems either. 
I recognise that this total spend  of around £22,000 - over a period of just over three 
weeks is high. But, in summary, the transaction amounts made to a legitimate 
provider created a spending pattern, and the amount spent on each day in which 
there was a transaction wasnt high enough for me to conclude that HSBC should 
have recognised Mr T was being scammed. 
In terms of recovery, a chargeback wouldnt have been successful here. This is 
because the payment went to the legitimate cryptocurrency provider which carried 
out the service it was required to. So, I dont think HSBC could reasonably have done 
more to recover the funds. 
HSBC recognised that it made errors in terms of the delays with its complaint 
handling. While not something our Service can generally consider, I note £100 was 
offered for what went wrong here  which Im referencing only for the sake of 
completeness.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decisions is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman