DRN-3290554
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Miss C and Mr W holds with Leeds Building Society 
(LBS). Theyre unhappy with the way LBS applies overpayments and calculates the interest 
on their mortgage balance. Theyve both joined the complaint but all of our dealings have 
been with Mr W.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss C and Mr W and LBS. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has 
been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published, and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Miss C 
and Mr W being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus 
on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Miss C and Mr W took the mortgage out in 2015 on a fixed rate of 2.55%; then, in 2017, they 
took out a further advance on a fixed rate of 4.49%. Over the time theyve had the mortgage, 
Miss C and Mr W have made overpayments. In 2021, they questioned how the 
overpayments were apportioned between the accounts; they believe mortgage regulation 
requires that any overpayment should be directed into the account that attracts the higher 
interest rate.
In its response, LBS said that overpayments were applied proportionately to both accounts; 
but it ran a calculation to show what the balances would be if the overpayments had all been 
paid to the further advance. Mr W said the calculation was wrong and provided his own; LBS 
re-did its calculation on a daily instead of monthly interest calculation, but Mr W said this was 
wrong too. Since then, both parties have carried out various calculations, each arguing that 
its own is right and the others is wrong.
Our investigator explained that the Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
sourcebook (MCOB) dont specifically say that fair treatment requires LBS to apply 
overpayments to the account being charged the higher rate. As for the calculations, he said 
it wasnt our role to audit or verify either sides calculations. 
But he did think that LBS should have made it more clear that one of the major areas of 
disagreement in its calculation assumptions (it had used interest only whilst Miss C and 
Mr Ws mortgage is capital repayment) was for illustrative purposes rather than specific to 
their account. For this, the investigator said LBS should pay Miss C and Mr W £250 
compensation for their time and trouble. 
LBS agreed but Miss C and Mr W asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
Having no regulatory power means its not my remit to tell LBS how it should apportion 
overpayments. In any event, the regulations themselves dont go as far as saying that the 
part of a mortgage attracting the higher or highest rate must be overpaid first. So I cant fairly 
find in Miss C and Mr Ws favour on the core issue that prompted them to complain in the 
first place.
I appreciate Mr W is frustrated at not being able to persuade LBS (or this service) that his 
calculations are more accurate and a fairer reflection of how much Miss C and he owe than 
those carried out by LBS. But our investigator is right when he says its not our role to audit 
the figures. Were no better placed to treat his calculations as reliable than we are LBS. 
I will make one observation, however; in his closing email of 17 January 2022, Mr W says 
that by not following the MCOB formula for calculating daily interest, LBS has charged an 
annual percentage rate of charge (APRC) of 4.59% on the further advance when the 
advertised APRC they signed up for was 4.49%. Ive checked the offer for the further 
advance; it sets out 4.49% as the rate at which interest is charged, but gives an APRC of 
5.1%. 
But none of the above doesnt mean Miss C and Mr W have to take LBSs word that 
everything is correct. If Miss C and Mr W have a real and substantive belief that LBS has 
over-charged them, it is open to them to arrange for the account to be audited by a suitably 
qualified and independent party. 
The evidence of the audit could then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but not as 
the basis for this one. I make the latter point because LBS would need to be presented with 
the finished audit first, and be given the opportunity to consider and respond to it. 
Miss C and Mr W would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that 
were to their detriment, we would then expect LBS to reimburse any reasonable cost of the 
audit as well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as 
things stand, theres no evidence that gives me any reason to think that LBS has 
mis-calculated Miss C and Mr Ws mortgage to their detriment. My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part by ordering Leeds Building Society to pay Miss C and Mr W 
£250. I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman