DRN-2719676
The complaint
  Mr L complains that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) applied unfair charges at the end of his 
agreement. 
What happened
 I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For ease I 
repeat it here.
In August 2015, Mr L acquired a van through a hire agreement. In 2019, Mr L returned the 
van and an inspection was carried out. A number of damage charges were raised as a 
result. Mr L feels the charges are unfair given the length of time he had the van and his 
personal use of the van. He complained to PSA.
PSA investigated Mr Ls complaint. It agreed to waive the charges for the roof dent, the
compartment trim panel, the bonnet dent, the left sliding door dent, the front windscreen and 
the torn flooring. It also agreed to reduce the service charge from £400 to £200. It reduced 
the invoice for damages from £1,411.81 to £963.97.
Dissatisfied Mr L complained to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr L. He reviewed all the information from both parties 
and carefully reviewed the inspection report and the photographic evidence. He agreed with 
all the damage charges except the charge for dull paintwork. He didnt agree the 
photographic evidence supported this and asked PSA to remove this charge, reducing the 
invoice by a further £122 to £841.97.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators findings. He says PSA attempted to claim the full 
amount from his bank account and he consider this to be sharp practice. He is unhappy 
PSA havent been prepared to negotiate the amount theyre charging for damages, which he 
finds unsatisfactory. He asks for an ombudsman review.
I looked at all the information from both parties. I explained I reached a slightly different 
outcome to the conclusions reached by the investigator. I issued a provisional decision to 
allow both parties to comment.
I said I was aware that Id summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and 
Ive done so using my own words. I said I wasnt going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I focussed on what I 
think are the key issues here. 
I explained our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I acknowledged Mr L acquired the van under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as 
a result this service can look into complaints about it. 
I explained Mr Ls responsibility was to return the car in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. This includes a clause requiring his van in good condition, fair 
wear and tear excepted. 
When considering fair wear and tear I said I had taken account of the industry guidelines. 
The guidelines for what are considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the 
end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
PSA has already agreed to remove some of the charges and so I focussed on the remaining 
damage charges. I looked closely at the photographic evidence to determine if it falls in or 
outside of fair wear and tear.
PSA has charged Mr L for damages to all four wheels.
The BVRLA fair wear and tear guide says; "Scuffs totalling up to 50mm on the total 
circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. Any damage to the 
wheel spokes and the hub of the alloy is not acceptable
I said from looking at the photographic evidence it is clear the front left wheel and the rear 
wheels on the left and right have significant scratches which exceed the permitted 50mm. 
The right front wheel is also clearly cracked. In my view all the charges for the wheels fall 
outside of fair wear and tear and are chargeable. 
With regard to dents the BVRLA fair wear and tear guide says; dents under 15mm can be
considered wear and tear and are not chargeable, provided the paint surface isnt
broken.
The photographic evidence of the left-hand side front door and the left-hand side post show 
surface damage. On that basis this damage also fall outside of fair wear and tear and is 
chargeable.
With regard to scratches the BVRLA guidance says; scratches under 25mm can be 
considered wear and tear and are not chargeable, provided the paint surface isnt broken. 
Again, in the photographic evidence shows the front and rear bumpers and the boot lamp 
have scratches exceeding the permitted length and so these are also chargeable.
The boot lamp unit on the right-hand side is also cracked. In my view this also falls outside of 
fair wear and tear and is chargeable.
The right-hand rear load door also has clear damage or is a poor repair and so I said I agree 
this falls outside of fair wear and tear and is chargeable.
I said Im in agreement with the investigators view that the charge for dull paint to the rear 
left-hand panel is unfair and so shouldnt be charged.I went onto say I wasnt persuaded that the photographic evidence for the rear left-hand door 
dirt in finish is sufficiently demonstrated and so I said Im going to ask PSA to remove the 
charge of £122 also.
About the service costs, I appreciate Mr Ls argument that the van was serviced before 
22,000 miles. But the terms and conditions say every two years or at 22,000 whichever 
occurs first. As the van was registered in July 2015, the first service should have occurred in 
July 2017 and the second in July 2019. PSA have accepted the service carried out in July 
2019, although late and have deducted £200 service costs, which I said I found fair and 
reasonable.
Mr L has made it clear he doesnt agree this service has the expertise to assess the 
damages. He points out his main complaint was with regard to PSA attempting to call 
monies in dispute from his bank account and its failure to negotiate the damage charges 
further.
I have noted Mr Ls concerns about the sharp practice he refers to, of attempting to call the 
full amount of the damages after he had signed to say he disagreed with those costs.  Had 
PSA been successful in that attempt I dont think that would have been fair or reasonable 
and I would now be looking at refunding monies owed as PSA has already agreed to reduce 
the charges. That said, it wasnt successful, and Mr L has been able to dispute the charges 
first with PSA and now with this service. 
Mr L makes the point that he returned the van with lower mileage than the contract permitted 
and suggests this should be considered and indeed part of any negotiation with regard to the 
damages charged by PSA. But this isnt an interchangeable contractual option. The terms 
and conditions regarding the mileage allowance is a separate matter and I dont agree that 
PSA should be under some obligation to offset one against the other.
I explained PSA is under no obligation to negotiate damage charges it is entitled to claim 
under the terms and condition of the agreement. Mr L signed to accept the terms and 
conditions when he took out the agreement and as such is bound by them.
He is right to say, that Im not a motor expert but in cases where end of contract charges is 
in dispute, Im not acting in such a capacity. Rather, Im looking at the BVRLA fair wear and 
tear guidelines and determining if the damages fall in or outside of the guidelines. In Mr Ls 
case I have identified one further charge which I feel falls within fair wear and tear and as 
such should be removed. In my view, all other charges, except for the ones already removed 
by PSA fall outside of the BVRLA fair wear and the guidelines and are chargeable.
In my provisional decision I said I intended to direct PSA Finance UK Limited to:
Remove all charges previously agreed and the charge for dull paintwork (£122) and 
the charge for dirt in the finish (£122)
Provide Mr L with a new invoice detailing the chargeable damage above for £719.97 
I invited both parties to make any further submissions for my consideration before I issued 
my final decision.
PSA made no further comment.
Mr L didnt agree with my decision. He remains of the view that I have exceeded my remit in 
commenting on the damage charged by PSA. He made several comments regarding my 
determinations about the damage charges. He also felt the only matter to be addressed was 
PSAs attempt to recover monies from his account. He raised the issue of whether or not PSA had actually suffered a loss due to the damages and re-iterated his position that he 
would happily negotiate any reasonable costs or defend his position in court.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive looked at all the information from both parties again and considered carefully the 
additional submissions made by Mr L.
I can see that Mr L has strong feelings about what happened. I have no doubt he was very 
unhappy to receive an invoice for damage charges when, as far as hes concerned, the van 
car was returned in a reasonable condition. I understand he feels its wrong that PSA can 
apply charges and attempt to recover the cost directly from his account. He feels it is unfair 
to apply charges when hes seen no evidence PSA had the damage fixed before the van 
was disposed of and he considers the amount charged is excessive.
I should make it clear at the outset that the role of our service is to resolve disputes between 
financial businesses and their customers informally. I am not a regulator. I dont have the 
power to investigate the way PSA runs its business on a day to day basis. My role is to 
consider the evidence provided by both parties, without taking sides, and decide what I think 
is a fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, I 
must have regard to relevant law and industry guidance, amongst other things. I am satisfied 
that the BVRLA guidance is relevant here.
Mr L hasnt presented any further evidence regarding the damage charges. I appreciate his 
issue is with the cost. He refers to the cost of the wheels and cites another independent 
retailer who can provide the wheels at a significantly lower cost than PSA has charged. But 
Mr L had the option to rectify any damage before returning the van, but he chose not to. Ive 
looked at the damage charges and I dont find them excessive or unreasonable.
Mr L has asked to see evidence of any repair work being carried out on the van. This is 
because he feels the charges would be unfair if PSA hasnt actually incurred these costs if 
the van was sold without being repaired. And he asks for evidence the damage would have 
impacted on the re-sale value. But Im satisfied the BVRLA guidance says damage charges 
can be applied at the end of this sort of agreement to compensate the lender for the cost of 
rectifying related damage. And these charges can still be applied if the lender decides not to 
carry out repairs before a car is sold.
For the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded that the charges PSA applied here are 
disproportionate or unreasonable. I cant fairly find PSA was wrong to apply the charges and 
Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to require PSA to waive or reduce them any 
further than I intend to direct. If Mr L is likely to have any difficulty paying the charges in one 
go, he should let PSA know and Id expect PSA to agree an appropriate repayment plan.
Having reached my decision, Mr L doesnt have to accept it. He has made it very clear that if 
PSA refuses to negotiate on the charges, he will defend his position in court and my decision 
doesnt impact his right to do so.My final decision
 For the reasons I have given I direct PSA Finance UK Limited to:
Remove all charges previously agreed and the charge for dull paintwork (£122) and 
the charge for dirt in the finish (£122)
Provide Mr L with a new invoice detailing the chargeable damage above for £719.97 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman