DRN-3397348
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) put a marker on her 
credit file which has meant she is unable to obtain credit from other banks. She is also 
unhappy about the letters shes been sent and fees applied to her account whilst shes been 
in a Debt Arrangement Scheme.  
What happened
Ms A entered into a Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS) on 19 December 2016.  Halifax 
reported this information to the credit reference agencies (CRA) it subscribes to. When 
applying for an overdraft with another bank Ms As credit report showed marker as having an 
unpaid debt. She also received letters from Halifax about having an unpaid balance.
Halifax says the information it reported to the CRAs was correct and that because she was 
in a DAS that meant her arranged overdraft was removed and as a result shows that she is 
an unarranged overdraft.
Halifax also confirmed that no fees had been applied to her account whilst shes been in a 
DAS and that the letters she received are to notify her of the status of her account. Though 
the letters arent asking for payment it recognised it caused confusion and offered Ms A £25 
compensation. 
As Ms A was dis-satisfied with this she brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Ms As concerns and reached the conclusion that Halifax hadnt 
done anything wrong and had treated Ms A fairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. 
Ms A disagreed, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Ms A has experienced and see if Halifax has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Ms A back in the position she 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Ms As main complaint point is that her credit report was showing an unpaid debt. So the 
question I have to ask is whether Halifax did anything wrong in what it reported to the CRAs 
it subscribes to. 
Halifax has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. Ms A entered into a debt 
arrangement scheme on 19 December 2016 and has been making regular payments 
towards this since. 
Ms A is concerned that her credit report is showing that she has an unfulfilled debt when she 
is paying back the debt under the plan. But when she entered the DAS this meant her 
arranged overdraft was removed leaving with an outstanding debt which Halifax duly 
reported to the CRAs. So as the information it has reported is factually accurate, I cant say 
it has done anything wrong here.
I understand Ms A is confused why her credit report is different depending on the CRA. But 
Halifax has no control over how the CRAs display the information reported to it. So again, I 
cant say Halifax has done anything wrong. 
Finally, Ive noted Ms A has received a number of letters from Halifax regarding the debt. 
Halifax has confirmed it is unable to stop all letters as it is reporting the status of her account 
but due to the possible confusion the letters caused offered Ms S £25 which I think is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case so Im not asking it to do any more here. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Halifax treated Ms A unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman