DRN-1827778
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the cash settlement of her claim with Fairmead Insurance Limited, 
under her building insurance policy saying there is a shortfall. Mrs C is also unhappy with the 
handling of the claim
What happened
Mrs Cs home was damaged by an escape of water and she claimed to Fairmead on 12 
August 2019. Fairmeads agents visited Mrs Cs home and appointed a loss adjuster who 
said agreement was reached with Mrs C on 3 September 2019 for a cash settlement of her 
claim in the amount of £12,731.84, and this was paid directly. During the repairs to Mrs Cs 
home she stayed with a relative and Fairmead paid her a disturbance allowance.
In October 2019 Mrs C claimed further costs in relation to the claim and provided reports in 
November. Mrs C complained about the handling of her claim. Fairmeads loss adjuster 
visited her in November and Mrs C was offered a further payment in early December in 
return for a breakdown of the tradesmans costs.
Fairmeads loss adjuster reported on additional costs at the end of December 2019 and 
spoke to Mrs C. In this call Fairmead said reductions to Mrs Cs further request for payment 
for items not admissible under her claim were explained to her. It said full and final 
settlement of her claim was agreed in the further payment of £2,200, which was paid to her 
on 3 January 2020. It said this process is why the claim took longer than normal.
Mrs C further complained to Fairmead in January 2020 about the amount of the settlement 
and problems its agents caused concerning delays, and communications. Mrs C said she 
didnt request a cash settlement for her claim it was suggested by the loss adjuster that she 
use her builder. She said she obtained an initial estimate for the work, but this was always 
subject to correction and once her home was dried out more damage was discovered. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the initial payment 
was in line with Mrs Cs estimate. She said Fairmead agreed to cover the additional damage 
from by the leak, but reduced the payment because some costs were duplicated and others 
were unrelated to the claim. She listed items totalling £4,325 that were paid in December 
2019. But said Mrs Cs further request for £3,300 was reduced to £2,200 because Fairmead 
adjusted for items covered in its initial payment. The investigator said this was fair.
The investigator said Mrs C wanted the payment in October 2019 but had to wait for the final
payment until January 2020 as Fairmead checked additional items claimed. She said this is 
normal practice and Fairmead agreed with some of the costs. She said the estimated cost 
exceeded the agents authority and had to be referred causing some delay. She didnt think 
the insurer couldve done anything more. 
Mrs C disagreed saying Fairmeads communication was very poor and no help was given to 
her at any stage and this caused her avoidable stress. She said it was appalling that her 
costs were knocked down. Mrs C requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
References to Fairmead include its agents where appropriate.
Ive looked closely at Fairmeads decisions and handling of Mrs Cs claim to see if it has 
acted in accordance with the terms of insurance policy and to see if it has treated Mrs C 
fairly. 
From what Ive seen Mrs C wanted to use her builder to carry out the repairs to her home 
following the escape of water. I agree with her that the cash settlement was based on an 
initial estimate from her builder and this would be subject to review once the drying out of her 
home was completed and full damage assessed. It was reasonable for her to submit further 
costs at this time and reasonable for Fairmead to want to validate these costs. This took a 
few weeks as the costs exceeded the limit for approval by Fairmeads agents, but I dont 
think the payment was unduly delayed.
Ive reviewed the second estimate provided by Mrs Cs tradesman and it shows some costs 
that were included in his original estimate. I havent seen anything to show the rear door was 
damaged as a result of the leak. Mrs C's tradesman hasn't provided any information to show 
he incurred costs above the adjusted figures. And I havent seen anything to show how 
those costs were incurred.
Because I havent seen any information to show that Fairmead is liable for any additional 
costs that Mrs C has incurred that it hasnt already paid, it wouldnt be fair for me to require it 
to do anything more on her claim. I think Fairmeads decisions on the payments for Mrs Cs 
claim have been in line with its requirements under her insurance policy and have treated 
her fairly.
Mrs C said that she had to make many calls to Fairmead and its agents in order to find out 
what was happening with her claim. I have seen records of the calls and its clear she was 
concerned about lack of progress. I think Fairmeads agents should have kept in better 
contact with Mrs C, but overall Ive found that her claim was progressed properly, and she 
was informed of activity at each stage of her claim.
I can see that pursuing her claim has been a stressful experience for Mrs C and she thinks it 
has taken too long to resolve. And its clear that communications have occasionally been 
strained. Unfortunately, significant escape of water claims affecting large areas such as at 
Mrs Cs home are complex to resolve involving several parties and generally take several 
months to conclude. 
It follows that these claims are an inherently disrupting and stressful experience for 
policyholders. Our role is to determine whether avoidable delay and stress by the insurer 
and its agents have added to the policyholders experience. And, although this will be 
disappointing to Mrs C, in this case I dont think that Fairmead has caused much avoidable 
stress or delay.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman