DRN-3029923
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
declined its applications for a Bounce Back Loan. 
The complaint has been brought to the service by Es director, Mrs D.
What happened
E held a business foundation account with NatWest which was opened in October 2020. On 
6 October 2020, Mrs D applied online on Es behalf for a BBL with the bank. However, the 
application was declined on the same day as Mrs D wasnt a key signatory on the account. 
Mrs D applied to the bank the following day to update this.
Mrs D then submitted a further BBL application on 12 October, but this was declined for the 
same reason as the first application, as the account update hadnt yet taken effect on Es 
account. 
Mrs D submitted the third BBL application the following by, which time point the account 
update had taken place, so NatWest proceeded to review Es application. NatWest asked 
Mrs D for evidence, such as tax returns or accounts to show that E had been trading prior to 
1 March 2020 as required by the BBL Scheme eligibility criteria. Mrs D said she wasnt able 
to provide this information.
NatWest declined the application in early November on the basis that it couldnt confirm Es 
eligibility. Mrs D didnt think this was fair, so she made a complaint.
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. The bank apologised for the time it had taken in 
providing its decision, but it said the decision to decline the BBL application had been taken 
in line with the banks standard checks and assessments - and remained unchanged. Mrs D 
didnt agree as she believed E met the Schemes eligibility criteria and asked this service to 
look into Es complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought NatWests decision 
to decline Es three applications were reasonable, for the reasons the bank had explained. 
Mrs D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Applicants had to meet certain criteria to be eligible for a BBL. This included the requirement 
to have been carrying on business on 1 March 2020 and maximum permitted borrowing from 
between £2,000 and 25% of their turnover to a maximum of £50,000. In addition to these 
criteria, there were checks that had to be made - with some discretion for lenders to have the 
final say as to whether to approve the loan. 
As E had only banked with NatWest since October 2020, the bank couldnt see that it had 
been trading prior to 1 March 2020 and therefore couldnt confirm E met this requirement of 
the Schemes eligibility criteria. So I think it was reasonable that it asked Mrs D for some 
further information to evidence Es eligibility.
Mrs D said she had been using her personal account for Es transactions prior to this date, 
so the bank said it needed to see evidence of this. Unfortunately, NatWest wasnt able to 
confirm this from the personal account, so it asked Mrs D to provide other evidence, either 
through a tax return or accounts. Mrs D didnt provide this information. As NatWest couldnt 
verify that E was trading prior to 1 March 2020, it declined the application. I think this was 
reasonable. 
Mrs D also said that she didnt get the banks letter confirming its decision. Ive seen this was 
addressed to the same address Mrs D used on the BBL application form so Im unsure why 
she didnt receive this. However, Ive seen that when Mrs D spoke to NatWest about the 
decision, the bank apologised and said this may have been due to an internal error. I dont 
think the delay had a material impact on E, as the bank wasnt going to change its decision. 
But NatWest has apologised, and I think its done enough to put things right. 
Mrs D also told us that NatWest had unfairly declined Es first two BBL applications as she 
was the only signatory on Es account. I acknowledge Mrs D also said she only uses her full 
surname with the bank. However, Ive seen that Mrs D has changed between Mrs D and 
Ms L  which was also used on Es account opening mandate. So I think it was reasonable 
for NatWest to decline the first two applications as it couldnt be sure Mrs D was authorised 
to apply on Es behalf. 
I recognise that Mrs D feels strongly about this and shell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in how it 
assessed Es applications.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman