DRN-3284112
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G complain about advice provided by St. Jamess Place Wealth Management 
Plc (SJP) to invest in an EIS.
What happened
In July 2014 Mrs G and Mr G attended a meeting with SJP to discuss tax efficient 
investments, with the objective of capital preservation. At this time Mrs G and Mr G held joint 
investments of over £4 million, including £3.1 million in cash following sale of company 
shares, £400,000 in a unit trust, £250,000 in OEIC and individual holdings in stocks and 
shares ISAs.
Mr G also received an annual, gross salary of £90,000 with the potential for a bonus. 
Following this meeting, SJP advised Mr G to invest £90,000 into a Venture Capital Trust, 
with the aim of achieving £27,000 in income tax relief for 2014/2015. No complaint is made 
about this recommendation. SJP also recommended Mr G to invest £100,000 into an EIS, 
with the aim of achieving £28,650 in tax relief to be carried back to 2013/2014 tax year. 
Mrs G was advised to invest £17,700 into an EIS. The funds were invested into the EIS in 
August 2014.
In May 2019, Mrs G and Mr G were advised that the value of the EIS had dropped 
significantly. They complain that SJPs recommendation was unsuitable for their risk 
appetite, misleading statements were made as to performance and as to the use of debt and 
the extent to which investor funds were secured by physical assets, the EIS was mis-
managed, inaccurate information was provided about management charges and SJP 
provided poor service. Mrs G and Mr G seek compensation for the capital losses theyve 
sustained.
SJP maintain that the recommendation met Mrs G and Mr Gs objectives to provide income 
tax relief. Mrs G and Mr G were prepared to invest in high-risk assets to achieve tax benefits 
and this was a small proportion of their overall wealth. SJP relied upon the information in the 
suitability letter and the signed EIS declaration form. Further, they said that Mrs G and Mr G 
had access to the Information Memorandum (IM) which confirmed the high risk nature of 
the investment and addressed the potential use of debt by investee companies to service 
short and medium term operational needs.
SJP have confirmed that they were not responsible for management of the EIS, which was 
down to the product provider. No guarantees were made as to performance. SJP 
acknowledged that there had been shortcomings with amending a correspondence address 
and offered £150 in compensation to address this error.
Our investigator considered the complaint. On balance, our investigator thought that Mrs G 
and Mr G had understood the high risks involved when investing in an EIS; taking into 
account the investment experience and the information provided about the nature of the 
product. She noted that Mrs G and Mr G had chosen a greater concentration of risk, by 
choosing not to diversify the portfolio. The product met the objective of tax relief and was 
asset backed with the aim of capital preservation. Our investigator also considered Mrs G 
and Mr Gs wider financial circumstances as above and noted that other investment options 
had been considered and discounted. Overall, she concluded that the recommendation was 
suitable. Management of the EIS was down to the product provider and the changes in 
legislation which affected performance arose after the advice to invest had been given. 
Details of management charges were set out in the documents and these were again down 
to the product provider. 
Mrs G and Mr G disagree with the view. They maintain that they relied upon SJPs advice as 
they did not have a great deal of investment experience. They say they were exposed to 
more risk than they wanted to take. The EIS was not asset backed as they had been led to 
believe and was debt leveraged. Failure of the investment was down to this and not external 
market and regulatory factors. The provider appeared to have charged higher management 
charges.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G and Mr G have raised a series of concerns. Id like to reassure Mrs G and Mr G that I 
have taken everything into account and hope they will not take it as a discourtesy that I 
havent addressed every point raised. Ive focused on the core complaint points in order to 
reach a fair and reasonable decision. Ive made my decision based upon the balance of 
probabilities, in other words, what I think is more likely than not to have happened. Its also 
helpful to highlight at the outset that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to consider the 
complaint with the benefit of hindsight, my decision therefore focuses on matters at the time 
of recommendation and investment. These events took place some years ago and Im 
mindful that memories can fade with time, so Ive considered the recollection of events of the 
parties and the contemporaneous documents.
Management of the EIS
SJP were responsible for the suitability of the original recommendation given to Mrs G and 
Mr G. They were not responsible for the ongoing management of the EIS. The EIS provider 
managed the investments on a discretionary basis, which meant that operational and 
commercial decisions fell within the EIS providers remit and SJP had no further involvement 
in the EISs after the funds were invested. This was highlighted in the EIS declaration, which 
said that SJP had no influence over management of the EIS and were not responsible for 
underlying investment decisions of the EIS provider. Suitability
In considering whether the recommendation was suitable for Mrs G and Mr Gs needs, Ive 
considered their objectives, attitude to risk, capacity for loss and overall circumstances. 
Ive considered that Mrs G and Mr G had investment experience, holding joint investments in 
OEIC, unit trust and individual stocks and shares ISAs. Further, the application form records 
Mr G had 13 years experience investing in AIM-listed or unquoted companies, albeit Mr G 
says that was in his capacity as a managing director rather than individual capacity. Ive also 
considered that Mrs G and Mr G sought this specific advice only in relation to tax efficient 
investments from SJP; it was expressly recorded that they had used another adviser to 
provide advice about other investments and pensions. Im persuaded it is likely that they 
were actively involved in the decision-making process. 
Attitude to risk and risk warnings
The suitability letter and financial review documents both record that as against SJPs risk 
spectrum, Mrs G and Mr G were classed as high-risk investors for both the VCT and EIS 
recommendations. They were content with the potential to achieve exceptional returns whilst 
also exposing their capital to high risk. This definition was consistent with the information in 
SJPs risk and reward document. It was recorded that Mrs G and Mr G would class their 
overall attitude to risk as medium/high but they were prepared to take more risk with this 
investment given they were investing a low proportionate of their overall investable wealth 
(3.3% for Mr G and 0.6% for Mrs G) and as other investments were pooled with elements of 
high risk exposure. 
An EIS declaration was also signed before the funds were invested, which highlighted that 
investing in smaller companies represented a much higher risk, the EIS companies were 
inherently illiquid, further that the high risk nature of EIS being only suitable for clients who 
could afford to lose money.
Also, SJP expressly recorded in the suitability letter that Mrs G and Mr G liked, the idea of 
losses on this particular investment can be offset against future income tax or capital gains 
tax liabilities in the future. This re-enforces my view that Mrs G and Mr G were aware of the 
potential to sustain losses.
Mrs G and Mr G were also provided with a copy of the IM. It contained a prominent 
investment risks warning section, which stated investors should only consider subscribing if 
they were able to bear the risk of losing their entire investment. Further, it highlighted the risk 
of government subsidies being withdrawn and also highlighted that if a counterparty 
collapsed or its financial strength deteriorated, any guarantees to the investee company may 
become worthless. Further, target returns were not guaranteed.
On balance, I consider that it is more likely than not that Mrs G and Mr G were aware of the 
risks associated with the EIS at the time they invested.
Objectives
The key objectives recorded in the suitability letter of August 2014 were tax efficient 
investment, capital preservation and a preference for investment in asset backed 
businesses. The same objectives were recorded in the suitability letter for the VCT, so I think 
its more likely than not that these factors were important to Mrs G and Mr G at the material 
time. Mrs G and Mr G were looking to exit the EIS after around 3-4 years to invest again, but 
it was recorded that they had adequate funds to not rely on the sums invested after the initial 
3 year holding period.A discussion had taken place that funds may not be invested immediately and this may 
delay tax reliefs available. Further, it was possible that the sale of the investment may be 
delayed as funds were invested in unlisted companies on the secondary market.
In my view, investment in an EIS was in line with the objective of tax efficiency. EISs provide 
30% income tax relief, which can be backdated a year. Capital gains tax relief and loss relief 
(if losses were sustained) were also available, along with inheritance tax relief (which wasnt 
a feature in the recommendation). Other investments had been discounted as they did not 
provide income tax relief.
The investment strategy in the particular EIS was capital preservation (supported by 
information in the IM) and again this was in line with Mrs G and Mr Gs objectives. Whilst the 
aim of the investment was to preserve the capital sums invested, this wasnt guaranteed. I 
think its important to recognise here the distinction between the investment strategy and the 
inherent risk with this type of investment. So, whilst the investment goal was to preserve 
capital that was to be set in context that EISs are inherently high-risk investments, being 
complex, illiquid and specialist in nature. Further, Mrs G and Mr G actively chose not to 
diversify their investment across a range of EISs but invested in one sector. The suitability 
letter highlighted that in doing so, there was a greater concentration of risk. 
SJP provided information about the investment, explaining that the investment was 
predominantly in asset backed businesses. Considering the IM (which was also available to 
Mrs G and Mr G at the time) the EIS provider held out that the funds would be invested into 
two to four investee companies that  would be investing in construction and operation of 
energy plants, SJP explained to Mrs G and Mr G that, The types of companies that this EIS 
invests in are asset backed or have renewable energy credentials. At the point of 
investment, these investee companies were to invest in assets. 
Ive seen that the funds were invested in investee companies that owned or operated energy 
plants, in line with the objectives set out in the IM. The IM confirmed that the EIS provider 
aimed to invest in companies which developed or owned assets carrying low technology risk 
and which could generate revenues for long-term contracts. In my view this was in line with 
Mrs G and Mr Gs objectives.
Mrs G and Mr G have complained that the investee companies took on debt. But as Ive set 
out above, commercial decisions taken about running the businesses after the point of 
investment were down to the EIS provider, over whom SJP had no control. It wouldnt be 
unusual for investee companies to borrow and this was highlighted in the IM,
Investee companies many occasionally use debt or other types of finance to service their 
short and medium term operational needs . . .EIS does not take on long-term bank debt . . 
.In some circumstances, providers of finance may have priority over shareholders in the 
event of a distribution of assets because of liquidation  . . .
Further, the information relied upon by Mrs G and Mr G as to investee company accounts 
and changes in qualifying activities postdates the advice given by SJP, so it wasnt 
something that would have formed part of the information available at the time the advice 
was given. That the investee companies fell into difficulty in 2018/2019 because of an issue with the 
plants was not foreseeable at the time the recommendation to invest was made in 2014. 
Neither was the change in government funding and emissions control, which impacted the 
success of the underlying companies. And as Ive explained, the failure of a business within 
an EIS is an inherent risk. Mrs G and Mr G had also chosen to increase their risk exposure 
by investing in one industry sector and not diversifying across different EIS schemes. So, it 
doesnt follow that SJP did anything wrong, when the risks highlighted did materialise. I dont 
underestimate Mrs G and Mr Gs disappointment with the performance of the EIS, but 
ultimately this wasnt guaranteed.
On balance, I consider that Mrs G and Mr G had capacity to sustain significant losses, 
having large cash reserves (of over £2,500,000) and joint investments as above. Ive also 
considered that Mr G was investing only 3.3% of his wealth available for investment and   
Mrs G was investing only 0.6% of her wealth available for investment, any losses did not 
stand to impact on their standard of living.
Overall, taking everything into account, I consider that the recommendation was suitable for 
Mrs G and Mr Gs attitude to risk, objectives and capacity for loss at the time. I think it is 
more likely than not that they were content to invest a smaller proportion of their respective 
wealth into the higher risk investment in order to achieve tax benefits. In the particular facts 
of this complaint, I dont think they were exposed to more risk than they wanted to take. And 
Im mindful that no concerns were raised about the objectives or risk profiles at the time, 
unlike the later rejection of the 2017 advice. I would have expected concerns to have been 
raised at the time, if the recommendation did not meet their objectives or didnt accurately 
record their risk appetite.
Charges
SJP explained that charges applied in the suitability letter, application form and further 
information was provided in a document highlighting important aspects of the investment, 
which said there was an initial charge of 2.5%, an annual management charge of 1.5%.   
Mrs G and Mr G were provided with the IM, which again highlighted the management charge 
by the product provider. Ive seen that SJP invited Mrs G and Mr G to raise a new complaint 
if they wished to pursue this matter and any complaint about the application of the charges 
would lie against the product provider. As such, I havent considered this aspect of the 
complaint any further.  
Service
SJP accept that there was a shortcoming with a failure to change address, for which they 
offered £150 in compensation. Mrs G and Mr G have raised concerns about the adviser they 
were appointed in 2017, but as they did not accept his advice, they did not consider his 
involvement or lack thereof formed a material element of the complaint. So, I havent 
considered this point further.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G and Mr G, but for the reasons given I am not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Sarah TozziOmbudsman