DRN-1610149
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society wont pay him a recommend a friend 
bonus. 
What happened
The Nationwide Recommend a Friend ("RAF") scheme allows an existing Nationwide 
account holder to recommend a friend. Once the recommended friend has completed the 
switch to Nationwide (and provided both customers meet the terms and conditions of the 
scheme) Nationwide will pay £100 to the existing and new account holders. 
Mr P was recommended to Nationwide by his wife Mrs P. Mr P says he opened the account 
following a meeting in a Nationwide branch in November 2019. During this meeting, Mr P 
was told he was only eligible for a Flex Basic account. Mr P says he was also told during this 
meeting he would still be eligible under the RAF scheme even though he could only switch to 
a Flex Basic account.
Nationwide says the terms and conditions of the scheme make it clear that a Flex Basic 
account isnt an eligible account to switch to under the RAF scheme. Nationwide also says 
there is no evidence Mr P was advised in branch that he would still be eligible for the RAF 
scheme even if he switched to a Flex Basic account.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that although it was disputed what was 
discussed at the meeting, the terms of the scheme made it clear a Flex Basic account 
wouldnt qualify. He said Mr P was given enough information to understand the terms of the 
scheme and make an informed decision. He didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly when 
it said Mr P was not eligible under the terms.
Because Mr P didnt agree with our Investigator, this case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached the same conclusions on this 
complaint as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
The terms of the scheme were made available to Mr P and made it clear that recommended 
friends need to switch to certain types of accounts in order to qualify. These did not include 
the Flex Basic account. The terms also make it clear that no other accounts (other than 
those listed) qualify for the scheme.
Mr P says he didnt read the terms and conditions. He says he was told clearly in branch he 
would qualify for the scheme even if he switched to a Flex Basic account. Nationwide 
disputes this and says there is no evidence Mr P was incorrectly advised.There is no recording of the meeting and it cant be said for certain what was discussed. So I 
need to consider what I think is more likely to have happened based on the available 
evidence.
Nationwide has provided a statement from the Personal Banking Manager Mr P met with in 
branch. Although she cant recall the specific appointment, she has said she is clear on the 
process for the RAF scheme and is aware that a Flex Basic account would not be eligible.
Given the clear terms and conditions, the statement provided by Nationwide and the fact that 
the adviser Mr P spoke to in January was able to outline why he was not eligible, I consider it 
unlikely that Mr P was told he would be eligible for the RAF scheme if he switched to a Flex 
Basic account.
Mr P has said his wife Mrs P still received emails from Nationwide asking for the 
recommended friend to complete the steps. This complaint only concerns Nationwides 
actions with Mr P, but I cant see that these emails prove Mr P was eligible under the 
scheme, or that he was told he would be. The emails make it clear, in line with the terms and 
conditions, that the recommended friend would need to switch to one of three account types, 
not including the Flex Basic account, in order to complete the required steps under the 
scheme.
Overall, based on everything Ive seen and been told, I dont think Nationwide has acted 
unfairly in refusing to make the incentive payment
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman