DRN-3270172
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the service he received from Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited trading as More Th>n (RSA) when he made a motor insurance claim following an 
accident.  
What happened
Mr O was involved in an accident in January 2019 and he submitted a claim. His car was 
taken to a garage to be repaired. However, when it was returned, Mr O discovered some 
damage hadnt been repaired and further damage had been caused. He also found that 
previous guaranteed work carried out at the same garage from a previous insurance repair 
was still outstanding.
Thus began a long three year process, where Mr O and RSA battled to try and come to a fair 
resolution. Mr O raised numerous issues and RSA said it would pay Mr O £125 for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr O had suffered. But Mr O was unhappy with this and he said 
he wanted RSA to take responsibility for all the repairs outstanding on his vehicle, from both 
incidents. 
The complaint came to our service mid-2020. And at this point an issue was raised about 
jurisdiction, specifically about the damage that related to the previous repair. An investigator 
issued a view in July 2021. The investigator said that the complaint as a whole was in our 
jurisdiction and could be considered, but the investigator said following expert evidence he 
wasnt persuaded that some of the damage could specifically be attributed to the earlier 
incident and alleged poor repair. 
However, the investigator said that it was clear further issues had arisen due to the most 
recent repairs, following the accident in 2019. So, he asked RSA to abide by the engineers 
recommendations and he suggested that RSA increase its compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the delays and poor service from £125 to £400. RSA agreed.
However, Mr O remained unhappy. He said the quality of the initial repairs was poor and 
some needed rectification as per the lifetime guarantee hed received. In particular there was 
door sill corrosion damage that had recently come to light and damage was found when the 
front of the car was stripped. He said the expert report was inconclusive and poorly carried 
out. He felt that our investigators view didnt provide definitive next steps for repair and even 
though he was happy with the compensation, he feels there are systemic failures within RSA 
that need to be addressed. 
Mr O requested an ombudsmans review. This was delayed whilst we awaited a further 
inspection from the garage. An engineer has now reviewed all the issues so the complaint 
has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it in part. Ill explain why.
Since Mr O requested an ombudsmans review, RSA asked one of its senior engineers to 
review the complaint. Following this review, the engineer contacted Mr O and set out two 
options, one of which was a cash-in-lieu settlement to cover repairs. Im advised this offer 
incorporates all outstanding issues and leaves Mr O free to have his car repaired at a garage 
of his choice. Mr O has advised us that hes now accepted this offer. 
So, even though the quality of repairs from two incidents many years apart and how they 
were dealt with by RSA makes up the majority of this complaint, Im not going to make a 
finding on that following Mr Os acceptance. I dont need to as its no longer in dispute. I am 
glad that both parties were able to reach an amicable resolution. 
The same goes for the issue relating to jurisdiction. Under the Dispute Resolution 
Complaints Sourcebook (DISP) we deemed this complaint to be within our remit. RSA 
agreed so I dont need to make a finding in relation to this in this decision. 
So, the only outstanding issue is compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered 
and whether the compensation of £400 which has been recommended by our investigator is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Im conscious that Mr O never sought compensation for all the issues that arose. He says it 
in his correspondence with us that compensation is not driving him to make this complaint 
and he says that he didnt cash the original cheque for £125 that was sent to him by RSA. Mr 
O is looking at the bigger picture and he wants RSA to learn a lesson from this. He feels that 
RSA, its suppliers and their processes need a full review and hed like the FCA to step in.
I emailed both parties separately and I explained to Mr O that its not part of our role to fine 
or punish RSA. I explained that if a business does something wrong or acts unfairly, our role 
is to make an award that recognises the impact a businesss mistake had on Mr O.
And looking at what happened throughout this claim I think RSAs actions have had an 
impact on Mr O. RSA has now stepped in and put forward a fair and reasonable resolution. 
And I note Mr Os comments about how relieved he is with this. But looking through the 
timeline of this case I can see there were numerous opportunities to bring this claim to a fair 
and reasonable resolution earlier and RSA didnt take them. There were a number of delays 
- one of which was seven months, numerous garage visits, unanswered emails, damage 
dismissed out of hand, repairers missing obvious issues and the general inconvenience of 
having to go back to the garage every time the car was returned. When you look at this as a 
whole, Mr O was inconvenienced by RSAs reluctance to deal with the issues raised. 
So, taking all of this into account, I agree that the amount of compensation that our 
investigator has recommended is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I 
recommend that RSA pays £400 in total compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr O suffered for all of the above issues, in addition to receiving a cash-in-lieu settlement for 
repairs. If Mr O has already cashed the original £125 received, this should be deducted from 
the total £400 amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n to:Pay £400 (less £125 if already cashed) in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr O has suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman