DRN-4460718
The complaint
Mrs F complains through her representative, P, that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc 
(Mitsubishi) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with her claims under s. 75 and s. 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product in 
June 2015. The purchase was in Mr and Mrs Fs name but, as it was funded by a loan taken 
out by Mrs F, she is the eligible complainant. For simplicity, in this decision I will refer to her 
as the sole purchaser.
What happened
Mrs F held a fractional ownership holiday product with a company I will call D. In June 2015 
she purchased a non-fractional product at a cost of £2,310 from D funded by a loan from 
Mitsubishi.
In June 2019 P claimed a refund from Mitsubishi due to misrepresentation and breach of 
contract. It also argued there had been an unfair relationship as set out in s.140A CCA. Both 
parties are aware of the details of the claim so in this decision for brevity I will simply set out 
the key points.
Firstly I should say that P has on occasion conflated various purchases and some of its 
arguments are not relevant to the subject of this complaint. I am only considering the 2015 
purchase funded by Mitsubishi.
P says Mrs F was told that the new product would allow them to end their other membership 
earlier, but this wasnt true. It says that the fractional product could only be terminated if sold. 
P also said that Mrs F believed she was buying an exclusive product, but Ds 
accommodation was available to others on the open market. It said the cost was front loaded 
which fell foul of the Timeshare Regulations 2010.
P argued there was breach of contract because the fractional owners contract breached the 
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations (UTCCR) 1999.
It went on to claim that there had been a breach of fiduciary duty by failing to inform Mrs F 
that it had paid commission to D and so she was unable to give informed consent.
Finally, is said there was an unfair relationship due to the failure to disclose the commission 
paid. It also made a number of points relating to the fractional product. P said that a proper 
assessment of affordability had not been made and the Finance and Leasing Association 
code of conduct had not been followed.
Mitsubishi responded and rebutted each claim and P brought a complaint to this service on 
behalf of Mrs F. It reiterated the points it had made in its letter of claim. Mitsubishi noted that 
many of the points raised by P related to the earlier product which it had not funded. It also 
said that Mrs F had owned other holiday products since 2000. It attached a list of the 
numerous holidays taken between January 2016 and November 2017.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She said that she was only able to consider the purchase in 2015 and she didnt 
believe that evidence of misrepresentation had been supplied. Nor did she think there had 
been evidence of a breach of contract.
She also considered if there had been an unfair relationship, but concluded there were any 
relevant considerations which allow her to uphold this element of the complaint. She also 
hadnt seen any evidence that the lending was unaffordable.
P didnt agree and said the contract (without specifying which one) referred to ownership of 
property and this had caused Mrs F to believe she was acquiring property. However P refers 
to American rules and it may have been referring to another contract unrelated to the one 
which is the subject of this claim.
It said that D had been required to supply the key information as set out in the Timeshare 
Regulations. However, it didnt say which ones it thought had not been provided. It also 
reiterated that the UTCCR had been breached by D failing to make it clear that Mrs F would 
have ongoing financial obligations and subjecting her to a high pressured sales pitch.
Subsequently it submitted a generic counsels opinion on sales by D. More recently it made 
new points which had not been raised with Mitsubishi and asked that this service obtain 
more information about the contract. Our investigator explained that it would have to raise 
any new arguments with Mitsubishi first and on the second point this service would decide 
what was required and in any event much of what had been suggested had no relevance to 
this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I would add that much of the arguments put forward do not 
relate to the purchase made in 2015 and much is irrelevant to the facts of this complaint.
S.75 CCAS. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mrs F) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (Mitsubishi) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
Its important to note that, as Mitsubishi was the lender rather than the supplier, under the 
Act a claim is limited to one for misrepresentation or breach of contract, rather than general 
unhappiness with what was available under the contract.
Misrepresentation
On Mrs Fs behalf P alleges that the holiday product was mispresented to her, in particular 
that:
She could terminate her fractional ownership earlier.
The resorts were exclusive.
Not having been present at the sale its not possible for me to say exactly what was said, 
and in what circumstances. But the terms of the contract set out fairly clearly what was being 
purchased and Mrs F had considerable experience of Ds products having held one or more 
of them for many years.
I have not had any testimony from her or her husband as to what was said and other than 
the claim made by P. I have seen no supporting evidence to back up the claim that she was 
told the fractional product could be ended earlier.
Mitsubishi has explained that Ds resorts have never been exclusive and some properties 
are retained by the developer and other timeshare clubs also have access. It suggested Mrs 
F would have been fully aware of this given her long association with D.
As our investigator has said the sales representatives would have put the best gloss on the 
product and emphasised the benefits membership would offer, but that does not mean that 
this amounted to misrepresentation.
Overall it is difficult for me to conclude that any misrepresentations were made.
Breach of Contract
As our investigator has explained under s.75 of the CCA, we can only consider whether the 
D failed to perform one or more of the contracts terms  thereby breaching the contract. I 
have not seen evidence that this occurred which makes it difficult for me to conclude there 
has been one or more breaches.
S.140A CCA
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mrs F and 
Mitsubishi were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to 
consider it if it applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under s. 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of 
any enactment under s. 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mrs F could be said to have a cause of action in negligence 
against Mitsubishi anyway.
Mrs Fs alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to her personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that Mitsubishi assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
P seems to suggest that Mitsubishi owed Mrs F a duty of care to ensure that D complied with 
the 2010 Regulations. And P says that Mitsubishi breached that duty by failing to carry out  
before granting Mrs F credit and paying D  the due diligence necessary to ensure that the 
product purchased by Mrs F wasnt sold by D in breach of the 2010 Regulations. However, I 
can see nothing which show that Mitsubishi accepted such a responsibility.
Affordability
P says no or insufficient checks were carried out at the time of sale and this means the 
lending was irresponsible. Our investigator said that she could not see any evidence that 
Mrs F found the loan unaffordable. When considering a complaint about unaffordable 
lending, a large consideration is whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any 
failings on the part of the lender. So, if Mitsubishi did not do appropriate checks (and I make 
no such finding), for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to 
see that Mrs F lost out as a result of its failings. Mrs F has provided no evidence whatsoever 
that she would have found, nor that she found it difficult to repay the loan, so I do not need to 
consider this point further.
I appreciate Mrs F is dissatisfied with her purchase and she has my sympathies for this, but, 
in summary I cannot see why any of her claims were likely to have succeeded. So overall I 
think that Mitsubishi acted reasonably in declining the claims under s.75 and s. 140A CCA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision and so I have been given no reasons 
to alter it. As such my provisional decision stands.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman