DRN-3992506
The complaint
Miss A complains that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Valour) gave her 
loans that she couldnt afford to repay due to the amount of existing debt she had.
What happened
Miss A was advanced a total of three loans between March 2019 and April 2021. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £650.00 11/03/2019 02/01/2020 12 £108.32
2 £890.00 02/01/2020 01/12/2020 16 £132.37
3 £2,000.00 13/04/2021 30/06/2022 15 £266.66
Following Miss As complaint, Valour wrote to her to explain that it wasnt going to uphold the 
complaint because it had carried out proportionate checks which showed the loans were 
affordable. Unhappy, Miss A, then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
In the adjudicators assessment she thought Valour ought to not have provided loans 2 and 
3. This is because the adjudicator thought Valour ought to have carried out further checks 
before granting these loans perhaps by reviewing Miss As bank statements. Had further 
checks been carried out Valour wouldve likely discovered Miss A already owed a number of 
high-cost credit providers which made the loan repayments unsustainable. 
Valour didnt agree with the proposed outcome. It provided the income and expenditure 
details it collected from Miss A when loan 3 was granted. Later on, Valour asked whether the 
adjudicator had seen Miss As bank statements which the adjudicator confirmed she had. 
Finally, Valour disagreed that proportionate checks werent carried out given Miss A had 
repaid her loans without undue difficulty and there were no missed payments on her credit 
file. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Miss A could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Valours checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss As 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss A. These factors include:
Miss A having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss A having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss A coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss A. 
Valour was required to establish whether Miss A could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss A was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss As complaint.
The adjudicator didnt uphold loan 1 and neither Miss A nor Valour disagreed with the 
outcome about this loan. As this is the case, I no longer think there is any ongoing dispute 
about this loan and so I say no more about it. Instead, this decision will focus on whether a 
proportionate check was carried out by Valour before loans 2 and 3 were granted. 
Loans 2 and 3
Miss A declared she had a monthly income of £2,556 for both loans. For both loans, Valour 
says an income verification check was carried out which it says confirmed Miss A received 
that income for at least the last year. 
Miss A was also asked about her monthly expenditure this was spread across a number of 
different sectors such as housekeeping, bills and travel to name a few. It also looks likes as 
part of this expenditure check that Valour used information obtained from a credit search to 
look at what Miss As monthly credit commitments were. 
Following the expenditure checks, it believed Miss As outgoings for loan 2 were £1,023.55 
per month and £840.75 for loan 3. This left a minimum disposable monthly income of £1,542 
to afford her loan repayments of no more than £266. In addition, before these loans were approved, Valour says it also carried out a credit 
search. It is worth saying here that although Valour carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Valour 
couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it 
received.
Looking at the credit file, for loan 2 Valour knew that she had at least 10 active credit 
accounts. All of which appeared to have a good repayment history. She had at least three 
active loans and a communication contract with total monthly repayments due of £723. 
For loan 3, Miss A had a similar number of active accounts, but her credit commitments 
appear to have reduced. However, there were signs within the closed accounts that Miss A 
had applied for further credit from other lenders while loan 2 was being repaid. 
Loan 2 was taken on the same day that loan 1 was paid, it was for a larger sum to be repaid 
over a longer period of time  16 months. There was a small gap between repayment of loan 
2 before she took loan 3, but I dont think that was enough to break the lending chain 
considering, she returned for her largest capital loan, to be repaid over 15 months. Her 
monthly repayments doubled for her final loan compared to loan 2. 
So, while I accept the credit file didnt show any obvious signs of financial distress, I do think 
the time in debt, the term of the new loans, and the fact that the capital amounts and 
therefore the monthly repayments increased with each new loan ought to have led Valour to 
consider whether it knew enough about Miss As finances. I dont think, for these loans it was 
enough for it to have relied on the information she provided either on the application or the 
telephone call.  
Therefore, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Miss As actual financial position 
to ensure the loans were affordable and sustainable. This couldve been done in several 
ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings, looking at bank statements, reviewing 
Miss As full credit file or obtaining any other documentation Valour felt it may have needed.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other 
information that Valour mightve needed to consider about Miss As financial position.
Miss A has provided copies of her bank statements for the months leading up to these loans 
being approved and so I think its entirely reasonable to view these. I appreciate there was 
no regulatory requirement for Valour to have viewed the bank statements. But as Ive said 
above this was only one of a number of ways it couldve gone about verifying Miss As 
information and I consider this needed to have been done in order for a proportionate check 
to have been conducted. 
Had further checks been carried out, before these loans, I think Valour wouldve thought any 
further lending wasnt sustainable for Miss A. When loan 2 was advanced, Miss A already 
had three outstanding payday loans and two high-cost credit facilities running. The cost of 
servicing these credit commitments was £1,810 per month. This is the majority of Miss As 
income before the Valour loan was accounted for and before her other living costs were 
taken into account. 
And when loan 3 was approved, a similar picture can be seen, Miss A was still servicing the 
same two high-cost credit facilities she was repaying when loan 2 was advanced  costing 
over £1,100 per month. She also had three high-cost credit loans that she was repaying. So 
again, given loan 3 was for a larger amount with a larger monthly commitment I dont think 
this loan was sustainable and also unlikely to be affordable given the other commitments 
Miss A had to pay. Taking everything into account, Valour wouldnt have provided loans 2 and 3 had it carried 
out what I consider to be a proportionate check. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Valour should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent loans 2 and 3 as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss A may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss A in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss A would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Valours liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Valour shouldnt have given Miss A loans 2 and 3.
A. Valour should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss A towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything it has already refunded.
B. Valour should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss A which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss A 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Valour should pay Miss A the total of A and B. 
D. Valour should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss As credit file in 
relation to loans 2 and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Valour to deduct tax from this interest. Valour should
give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Miss As complaint about loans 2 and 3 only. 
Valour Finance Ltd trading as Savvy.co.uk should put things right for Miss A as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 Robert Walker
Ombudsman