DRN-3364164
The complaint
Mrs C complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay), has rejected the claim she made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system 
she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
Mrs C bought solar panels for her home in 2014. The purchase was funded by two credit 
cards, one of which was provided by NewDay. NewDay is therefore liable for the acts and 
omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the 
installer allegedly misleading Mrs C into believing that the panels would pay for themselves 
within five years.
NewDay rejected the claim. It said there is nothing to confirm what Mrs C has alleged. And 
the sales documents showed potential benefits in year one and over 20 years. NewDay says 
there is nothing to suggest this was not a reasonable estimate. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. She said that the costs and benefits 
of the system had been clearly shown on the sales documents, and the evidence provided 
confirmed that the system had performed in line with expectations. As such she did not think 
there had been a misrepresentation on the part of the installer and did not think the 
complaint should be upheld.
The CMC replied to say it disagreed but didnt give any reasons. As an agreement couldnt 
be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay and the CMC are familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established 
approach. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Key documents
The sales contract, entitled solar assessment survey, included the following information 
about the system.
I think this clearly shows the system was expected to generate 1,922 kWh of electricity per 
year, the cost of the system was £8,330.00, the first-year benefit through income and 
savings was estimated at £470.60, and the 20-year benefit was estimated to be £12,597.72.
Ive no reason to think the FIT rates quoted were incorrect, and they seem to match up to the 
rates shown on the limited FIT statements that have been provided to us. So, as long as the 
system is performing in line with expectations (generating around 1,922 kWh per year) I 
would have no reason to think that the estimated FIT income was misrepresented.
The savings from electricity used is less certain as this would depend heavily on Mrs Cs 
usage. The 20-year benefits figure would also depend on inflation (retail price index for FIT 
income and fuel inflation for savings) being in line with the installers assumptions.
However, I have seen nothing in the sales documents to suggest that the system would pay 
for itself within five years. And, given the cost of the system compared to the estimated 
benefit over 20 years, it would appear very unlikely that would be the case. Given the 
documentary evidence, I am not persuaded that it is likely that Mrs C was told the system 
would pay for itself within five years.
Performance
I have looked at Mrs Cs FIT statements and can see that her system, between March 2017 
and March 2018, has generated 2,294 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the 
point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected given you would 
expect some deterioration in performance over the years.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by the installer, including the expected annual 
increase in utility prices, and expected annual RPI inflation rate. These assumptions do not 
seem unreasonable given historic rates. 
It may be that inflation has been less than assumed by the installer at the time of sale. And 
this may explain why Mrs C does not feel she is getting the benefits she expected.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the installer that induced 
Mrs C to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman