DRN-3237972
The complaint
Mr W complains that ReAssure Limited didn't take sufficient steps to ensure he fully
understood the risks in transferring out of his personal pension in order to make an
unregulated investment within a Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS) in October 2014.
He also says ReAssure should have refused to make the transfer.
What happened
Mr W says that he was cold-called by an agent from a SSAS introducer selling an
opportunity in the Unity Bay hotel development in Turkey. He was 49 years old at the time
and earning about £25,000pa. When he showed interest, an agent visited his home to
discuss the opportunity further and complete documentation.
On 15 April 2014 he signed an application form for a SSAS (a type of occupational pension)
bearing the name of a newly-established management company in Merseyside which
employed him. Mr W signed this form both as the trustee member of the SSAS and as sole
director of that employer. The application also named the following other entities:
- A registered chartered accountant, with an address also in Merseyside, who was the 
contact name for Mr Ws employer and had verified Mr Ws identity to the SSAS 
provider. Companies House records show he had set up the company on the date of 
the SSAS application and made Mr W the sole director.
- A SSAS introducer, based nearer Mr W in the East Midlands, who will provide advice 
on the scheme to the member trustee and would receive an arrangement fee of 
£995 and an ongoing fee of £250pa. At the time (and as recently as 2018) that 
introducers website promoted alternative investments including hotel developments.
- The SSAS provider would act both as administrator and independent trustee of the 
SSAS, and as such would be sole signatory to the SSAS bank account. In other 
words, Mr W would have to give any investment instructions to the SSAS provider for 
it, as independent trustee, to enact.
Mr W or his employer wouldnt make their own contributions into the SSAS, but he was to
transfer his ReAssure personal pension worth about £64,000 into it. He specified that he
wanted to invest the transfer proceeds into Unity Bay.
On 12 June the SSAS provider requested the transfer from ReAssure. It doesnt appear it
provided all of the above documents  only the page of the application form which related to
the ReAssure transfer request. ReAssure replied on 17 June with the transfer payment
release form it needed to be completed. The letter says it also enclosed a Transfer warning
insert for occupational and pension products. It added that once Mr W signed that form,
ReAssure was required to make the transfer within six months.
This insert was the Pensions Regulator (TPR)s two-page factsheet entitled Predators stalk
your pension (the so-called Scorpion insert). This warned customers that some companies
falsely claimed that they could help them cash their pension in early, which could cause
substantial tax charges (this was known as pension liberation). Loans, saving advances or
cash back incentives were being offered, and such companies used cold-calling and pushy
introducers. It added that if in doubt, customers should speak to an adviser who is registered
with the Financial Conduct Authority.
On receiving ReAssures reply, the SSAS provider wrote to the introducer under cover of a
letter saying: I would be grateful if you could arrange execution in the usual way and forward
to ReAssure together with a copy of the receiving Scheme's HMRC registration certificate.
(Its clear from the wider correspondence that a number of other individuals were setting up
their own limited companies and SSASs through the introducer in order to make a variety of
investments.)
Mr W subsequently signed the release form about two weeks later on 1 July 2014. There
isnt any evidence that the Scorpion insert had been passed on to him by the SSAS provider
or introducer. The introducer returned his completed release form to ReAssure, enclosing an
HMRC certificate of registration for Mr Ws specific SSAS dated 2 May 2014.
On 24 July TPR relaunched its Scorpion website to alert transferring schemes not just to
pension liberation but also (according to the accompanying press release) the risk of
customers being scammed into moving their retirement savings into unregulated high-risk
or bogus investments that could result in them losing their entire pension pot.
The new website read: We're asking all trustees to include our pension scams scorpion
leaflet in their annual benefit statements and when issuing transfer packs to members. If you
currently issue annual statements and transfer packs via third parties, you should consider if
they should now be sent direct to members.
ReAssure then wrote to Mr W directly on 29 July for identify verification purposes. Mr W had
his passport and bank statement verified by an FCA-regulated director and adviser of a
different regulated firm (Firm M, which Im aware was on occasion involved in pension
transfers or switches). He returned these to ReAssure.
At the same time ReAssure also wrote to the SSAS provider about the enhanced due
diligence it was carrying out. It asked to see the Trust Deed and Rules for Mr Ws SSAS,
which the SSAS provider provided a week later (dated 23 May 2014). ReAssure updated the
SSAS provider on 21 August that it was still carrying out due diligence checks because of
extra procedures it had introduced. Mr W phoned ReAssure once on 5 September, to be
given the same answer; as did the SSAS provider on 12 September.
By the time Mr W phoned ReAssure again on 21 October, the transfer had been authorised.
ReAssure transferred two payments totalling £64,453 to the SSAS provider and an
investment of £55,225 was made into Unity Bay on 27 November 2014.
With the assistance of a claims management company (CMC), Mr W complained to
ReAssure in January 2019 on the following basis:
- ReAssure should have refused the transfer into an unregulated, high risk investment 
and didn't take sufficient steps to ensure he fully understood the risks.
- Alternatively, ReAssure should have raised concerns about the recommended 
investment strategy being proposed.
- If he had been made aware the companies involved werent regulated and he had no 
protection if the investment failed, he wouldn't have transferred into a high risk 
investment, as he considered himself a low risk client.
- His existing pension had been invested in moderate risk managed funds but was 
relatively safe. While he does hold other personal pensions, he has no further 
assets to replace the loss of these funds. 
- ReAssure had breached COBS 2.1.1R (clients best interests) and COBS 9.2.1R 
(suitability of recommendations) in the regulators handbook.In response, ReAssure was satisfied that it had taken instructions from the genuine
policyholder and provided the necessary Scorpion insert to the party that had requested the
transfer on Mr Ws behalf. It had no direct contact with (or awareness of) the introducer, and
didnt know Mr W had been cold-called. It said, We also took comfort in the fact that [SSAS
provider] are an FCA regulated company and we had no evidence it had been set up to
facilitate pension liberation.
Our investigator made a phone call to Mr W, which Ive listened to. Mr W explained that the
introducer told him in a meeting lasting 1-2 hours that hed be able to access his investment
after seven years and reinvest elsewhere. He was aware of the political problems that have
since affected Turkey but said that his investment was moved from one hotel to another
without his permission, and the fees were depleting what remained of his pot. He had
researched the introducer further since investing, and realised they were not the nicest of
people.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint, in summary because:
- Mr W appeared to have given a valid instruction to transfer his ReAssure pension (in 
pursuance of statutory and/or contractual rights).
- Although transfers of money overseas are sometimes features of pension scams, the 
focus of the TPR guidance at the time Mr Ws transfer was initiated was on offers of 
immediate cash sums from pensions (which constituted pensions liberation). 
- It was clear from Mr Ws recollections that he thought he was making a genuine 
investment; albeit one overseas.
- ReAssure wasnt advising Mr W, so COBS 9 didnt apply. It wouldnt typically be 
aware of what investments he would make within his SSAS, as it could reasonably 
expect the SSAS provider (and independent trustee)  a longstanding company in 
the industry - to have oversight of those investments.
- Mr W relied on advice from an introducer he didnt realise was unregulated, but it 
didnt appear ReAssure was aware of their involvement. 
- Some potential warning signs highlighted by the Scorpion guidance were apparent in 
this case, but they were insignificant. 
- The SSAS and sponsoring employer had been established in April 2014, only a few 
months earlier. But Mr W wasnt joining a pension scheme that had been established 
by someone else for multiple people  he had set up his own company in order to 
establish a scheme for himself.
- All of these points would have featured in ReAssures risk assessment as to whether 
it was necessary to carry out further checks. 
Essentially, the investigator thought the outcome turned on whether Mr W would have acted 
differently, had the Scorpion insert been sent directly to him  because it wasnt consistent 
with the purpose of this warning for it to be sent to a third party. But given the apparent belief 
Mr W had at the time that he was dealing with legitimate companies, and that he wasnt 
receiving any incentives, the investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr W would have acted 
differently had he seen the insert. In the investigators view Mr W would have remained 
confident he was making an investment which could produce attractive returns.
The CMC on behalf of Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings. In addition to some 
points about the Pensions Ombudsman (which Ive already addressed in a provisional 
decision) it said:
- As ReAssure had failed to follow the TPR guidance, it was at a loss to understand 
why the complaint wasnt being upheld.
- Mr W denied that the SSAS was set up with the assistance of his accountant.
- ReAssure staff had no training on SSASs and their role in pension scams.-When the transfer took place did ReAssure have any contact over phone, letter or 
email with regard to the transfer out and to discuss the extra due diligence per letter 
from ReAssure to [SSAS provider] dated 21 August 2014?
Following this, the investigator became aware that the SSAS provider did separately write
out to customers about the investments being made within its SSAS. He asked it for a copy
of Mr Ws letter which has now been shared with the CMC. Mr Ws letter is dated
20 November 2014 and says, amongst other things:
we do not endorse or recommend the services of any particular investment company, nor can
we advise on the suitability of and risks attached to the proposed investment. In addition we
cannot advise on the complexities of the legal process of acquiring property in an overseas
territory or in relation to the contractual documentation. Nor are we able to advise on the
developers title to the land.
As with all complex Investments we would strongly recommend that before proceeding you take
appropriate legal and other professional advice in the matterYou should also ensure that before
proceeding you have seen and read the purchase contract and associated documentation
The SSAS provider refers to Mr W already having a financial adviser in the letter. It goes
on:
We wish to make it clear that [SSAS provider] has not instructed local lawyers to investigate and
report on the title of the underlying property title to be transferred to the company nor the strength
of the covenant of the developer or company itself. If you do not instruct us to do so on behalf of
your pension scheme then it may not be possible to ascertain whether a valid title can be obtained
by the company or whether appropriate planning permission or other local consents have been
obtained
You should note that as this investment is not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, most
of the protections afforded under the UK financial services regulatory system do not apply to this
investment and that compensation under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme may not
be available.
Mr W signed the SSAS providers letter the following day to confirm receipt and that he
would not be appointing further legal advisers. The letter gives the number of the plot of land
Mr W was investing in  which I note was established as a specific UK limited company (by
the same accountant) in June 2014. The company remained dormant until it was struck off
and dissolved in March 2020.
The investigator told the CMC that the further evidence from the SSAS provider  which
didnt deter Mr W from proceeding at the time  suggested he would have been similarly
undeterred had ReAssure sent him the Scorpion insert directly. He noted that Mr Ws original
complaint letter also suggested the SSAS provider shouldnt have allowed the transfer to
proceed  and highlighted that Mr W might wish to consider raising his concerns with the
SSAS provider and/or the introducer.
The CMC responded that the SSAS providers letter should have been sent to Mr W when
the SSAS was first set up. It added that in 2014 there were FCA warnings regarding moving
pensions into SSASs, and these were ignored by ReAssure, as was the status of the
introducer as a failed financial adviser. (The introducer had been an appointed
representative of a regulated firm  it appears for mortgage broking  until 2011.)
Summary of my provisional decision of 24 December 2021
As agreement couldnt be reached, this case was passed to me for a decision. The relevant 
findings from my provisional decision are as follows:
The principles and rules of ReAssures regulatorPersonal pension providers, like ReAssure, are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA). Prior to April 2013, they were regulated by the FCAs predecessor, the FSA. There
has never been any specific FSA/FCA rules on the checks transferring providers need to
make before someone can transfer from a personal pension.
The FSA Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to. Firms must
always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance from the FSA/FCA in a
particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension liberation. The most
relevant principles (in the PRIN section of the rulebook) to this case were:
- Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
- Principle 3  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems
- Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
As Mr Ws CMC has mentioned, a firm must also act honestly, fairly and professionally in
accordance with the best interests of its client, which is known as the clients best interests
rule at COBS 2.1.1R in the handbook.
Industry guidance on liberation and scams
TPRs own guidance (the Scorpion campaign) was rolled out in February 2013 and this was
long before Mr W transferred. It wasnt guidance issued by FSA/FCA itself - so it wasnt set
out specifically by reference to firms PRIN or COBS obligations. But I consider it was clearly
relevant, from that date, to firms following the above principles and rules. It was also
endorsed by the FSA. So in my view it represented a step-change in how all businesses
were expected to approach pension transfers after that point.
The initial focus of the campaign was to prevent pensions liberation fraud  where
consumers were promised lump sums up front in order to transfer pensions. Many of the
well-publicised liberation cases at that time  where TPR had intervened in the management
of the receiving scheme  were recently-established multi-member occupational schemes
with no obvious employment link to the members.
Those well-publicised cases didnt necessarily have all the same features of Mr Ws situation
 he transferred to a single-member SSAS for a company he had directly (but recently) been
involved in establishing, and which was run by a long-established provider. But I recognise
that raising awareness of pensions liberation might have had the effect of alerting customers
to potential scams in general. And in around July 2014  whilst ReAssure was still carrying
out its due diligence in this case  TPR re-focused its campaign material more widely on to
pension scams. Ive noted that its press release on 24 July 2014 TPR actually made
reference to a similar type of investment and sales process to Mr Ws:
Pension scams may sound legitimate but there is a high risk that once members release their funds
in this way, their money will be moved into dubious investment arrangements, often overseas and
unregulated. Home visits from introducers, offers of free pension reviews, claims about legal
loopholes and unusual investments like overseas property, storage units or biofuels are all used to
fool members into thinking theyre being offered a legitimate pension transfer.
It can be seen therefore that TPR was aware that some overseas hotel investments, for
example, could be caught up in scams. But unregulated investments are also inherently
risky. So I should be clear here that Im not in a position to establish whether Mr Ws
investment in Turkey itself was fraudulent. Certainly there are indications here that if an
unregulated third party had strayed into making recommendations on Mr Ws (regulated)
personal pension, that third party is likely to have been acting in breach of the FCAs rules and putting Mr Ws pension at risk in the process. But that is as much as its possible to say
on the evidence Ive seen here.
Crucially, we also know more about what was going on at the time, including from the full
SSAS application form and other documents the SSAS provider received, than ReAssure
would have seen. Its notable that unless ReAssure had a particular reason to ask Mr W for
more information  which Ill consider later in this decision  it wouldnt necessarily know he
was intending to invest in an overseas hotel development, or that an unregulated adviser
had promoted this to him.
To deal with the CMCs point about the role of SSASs in scams, The FCA also had a
consumer section of its own website dedicated to investment and other scams, which I can
see from August 2014 did mention SSASs (alongside SIPPs) as being at risk. This was of
course at around the same time as TPRs own campaign widened from pension liberation to
scams in general. And it was while Mr Ws transfer request was going through  but only it
seems because the transfer was delayed for several months due to enhanced due diligence
that ReAssure itself then said it was carrying out.
In terms of TPRs own guidance, it wasnt actually until after Mr W transferred  in March
2015  that TPR said scam models were changing and many scammers were now directing
customers to transfer into single member occupational schemes (i.e. SSASs) in an attempt
to escape scrutiny. So in my view there was a clearer indication to transferring schemes by
March 2015 that what might seem to be a genuine scheme associated with the consumers
own company, might not be all as it seemed.
My overall view is that SSASs werent as specific a focus of industry concerns in mid-2014
as the CMC suggests. But at the same time, that still meant any receiving occupational
scheme (including a SSAS) could potentially be a concern. So Ive considered the actions
ReAssure took in this light.
TPRs action pack
The FSA had also endorsed the action pack set out for transferring schemes. It was
appropriate for FSA/FCA regulated firms like ReAssure to have taken the steps in this
guidance into account, when considering how they should comply with their regulators
principles and rules. I also think these steps represented good industry practice for
transferring personal pension schemes to follow. The action pack highlighted to pension
providers a number of warning signs often present in liberation or scams, including:
 Being cold-called
 Money being transferred overseas: This makes the funds harder to trace and
retrieve when the arrangement is closed down
 Promises of incentives
 Members inadequately informed about the investments to be made
 Pressure being applied for the transfer to complete quickly
The action pack said transferring schemes should look out for these issues, as well as
receiving occupational schemes that were newly registered or were suddenly involved in
multiple transfer requests. It also provided a checklist that could be used if you have
concerns [my emphasis]. TPR further said that identifying one of the discrepancies on its
checklist individually didnt necessarily indicate a problem  however if several features are
present there may be cause for concern.
ReAssure had reacted to this action pack by strengthening its due diligence processes. I
have asked ReAssure if it can provide further information on what steps it would have taken,
and disappointingly it hasnt been able to locate a definitive process guide from the time. ButI see no reason to doubt that it did carry out enhanced due diligence, given that it made a
number of references to this at the time, and its actions (including requesting the Trust Deed
and Rules for Mr Ws SSAS) demonstrate this.
As can be seen in the quote above, the action pack left some ambiguity as to whether
transferring schemes were expected to conduct exhaustive enquiries of the customer in
every case, or  and within reason  being reactive to warning signs as they presented
themselves. Its fair to say there was a balancing act between holding up every transfer and
exercising reasonable judgement on which transfers appeared most at risk.
In my view some of that ambiguity was resolved by the fact that TPR was encouraging a
separate factsheet (the Scorpion insert, which highlighted some of these issues) to be sent
to the customer at the same time as a transfer quotation. It set the expectation back in
February 2013 that the use of the insert in transfer packs for members should become best
practice.
ReAssure appears to have updated its mailing processes at some subsequent point. But
given the very possibility third parties might be involved in an attempt to liberate the
customers pension, it would be somewhat self-defeating  as a matter of process  for
ReAssure to send the insert to a third party who had requested the transfer. It may not have
been the only provider doing this, as TPR took the extra step of warning businesses in July
2014 that they should consider mailing customers directly.
I accept that theres no evidence Mr Ws SSAS provider was involved in liberation, and this
was the risk the Scorpion insert at the time of Mr Ws request (June 2014) was referring to.
But given its existing COBS and PRIN obligations to Mr W, I think if ReAssure had adapted
its systems to send the insert, it clearly should have done so in a way that made sure the
insert went to Mr W directly. That would then at least have given him the opportunity to query
anything he was concerned about. And that in my view would then have been enough  in
combination with ReAssures own due diligence checks  to meet those obligations.
So firstly Ill consider what would have arisen from ReAssures own checks into Mr Ws
SSAS.
Status of the receiving scheme
Both a new employer and scheme were established a matter of months before Mr Ws
transfer request. At face value therefore these were potential warning signs, even at the time
of the original Scorpion campaign focusing on the risks of liberation. However as Ive
explained above at the time of Mr Ws transfer and without the benefit of hindsight, I dont
think its reasonable to take the CMCs view that a SSAS would have been viewed as more
suspicious than, say, a multi-member scheme. In some ways I consider the transfer in this
particular case might actually have been viewed as less suspicious.
One concern with transfers to multi-member schemes was where the sponsoring employer
was located geographically distant from the member. In this case Mr W, living in the East
Midlands, had apparently chosen to establish a limited company and register it in
Merseyside, about a hundred miles away. Whilst Mr Ws occupation wasnt known to
ReAssure, had it asked its fair to say this is one that is often pursued on a self-employed or
contract basis. Some workers also set up their own companies and they are entitled, as it
appears in this case, to do so via an accountants address.
Mr W says that the company wasnt set up by his accountant. I dont think the investigator
meant to suggest a long-standing relationship, but Mr W would have signed a number of
forms for both his new limited company and the SSAS, naming a particular accountant who
the introducer had presumably brought on board. The point the investigator was making wasthat this accountant was a member of a professional body which would have lent further
credibility to the arrangements Mr W was entering into  whether ReAssure had asked
further, or its enquiries had prompted Mr W himself to think more about what he was doing.
Before single-member SSASs became recognised the following year as a new focus of
pension scam activity, I think ReAssure would  if anything  have considered Mr Ws
transfer to be at lower risk of being a scam. And as it takes time for accounts to be filed it
would have no way of telling, so early on, that Mr Ws company would remain dormant and
never trade.
That doesnt of course mean that ReAssure should have been closed off to all possibilities of
Mr W being the victim of a scam. The guidance also highlighted that multiple requests to
transfer to the same scheme was a potential warning sign, and it was common for providers
to maintain lists of schemes where concerns had already been raised on other transfers. So
I note that in its response to the complaint ReAssure confirms its processes hadnt flagged
this type of SSAS as being of particular concern at that time.
I have no reason to doubt that was the case, as its also clear that ReAssure took some
comfort in the SSAS providers standing in the industry. As the investigator explained, only
the part of its group of companies which provided SIPPs was actually regulated by the FCA.
The other trustee company and SSAS provider were separate entities, and those didnt need
to be regulated by the FCA in order to carry on SSAS business. Its not clear to me whether
ReAssure appreciated this difference at the time, and it means that ReAssure shouldnt have
expected that Mr Ws transfer was protected by FCA regulation.
However I think there is an overarching point here that ReAssure knew the SSAS provider
was an established company offering not only SSASs but SIPPs (which were FCA
regulated). What ReAssure was effectively placing weight on was that the SSAS providers
operation was long established  and was unlikely to have become so, if it had a history of
making unsuccessful or, for that matter, fraudulent investments.
I think its also important to note from ReAssures point of view that a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the SSAS provider acted as independent trustee to Mr Ws SSAS. Although
this was no longer a statutory requirement, it had been in the past  in effect to reduce the
risk of fraudulent activity. So a SSAS provider that had ensured it would continue to act as
independent trustee would in my view have added further credibility to this arrangement.
The Pensions Act 2004 had introduced a specific duty on trustees to know and understand
the key provisions of trust law and pensions legislation. Under trust law, trustees have
fiduciary responsibilities which share some similarities with the principles applying to FCA-
regulated firms  such as to act prudently, responsibly and honestly and in the best interest
of all beneficiaries of the SSAS, in this case Mr W and potentially his dependants.
The Pensions Act 1995 also continued to apply and this set out criteria trustees needed to
apply when selecting investments within an occupational pension scheme, including that
these were adequately diversified and advice had been sought from an appropriately
qualified person. Whilst this responsibility applied as much to Mr W as a lay-trustee as it did
to the independent trustee, where a trustee is acting in a professional capacity the
expectations of them are commensurate with the further expertise they profess to hold.
Im not saying that ReAssure would have been expected to be familiar with all of the rules
and regulations that trustees of occupational pension schemes should follow, and use this as
a basis to avoid carrying out any due diligence at all. Clearly the very fact that pension
liberation and scams were being perpetrated by the trustees of some occupational schemes,
meant that not all trustees were taking their responsibilities seriously. There are examples of
TPR taking action against some such trustees at the time. However those were typicallycases of individuals who had recently begun acting as trustees, and established fraudulent
schemes that were admitting multiple members from across the country with no connection
to each other. Those wouldn't have appeared to be features of Mr W's case at the time.
So what I'm saying here is that ReAssure was entitled to take into account that the SSAS
provider's operations had involved it performing an independent trustee role since July 2006
 some eight years before Mr Ws transfer - following a management buyout of the SSAS
business from an even longer-established and well-known provider. It was highly regarded in
the industry by 2014, having won several Moneyfacts and Pensions Management awards
along the way, for example. And if ReAssure concluded from this that Mr W was highly
unlikely to become the victim of pension liberation or a scam, I think that conclusion would
have been reasonably justified in light of the expectations I've set out above.
ReAssure was always expected to check that the receiving scheme was registered with
HMRC, and I can see that it did this. But it went further than this and obtained a copy of the
Trust Deed and Rules. These documents were prepared by an established law firm and also
signed by Mr W personally in his capacity as director of the sponsoring employer, so that
would make it apparent to ReAssure that enquiries into the employer itself were likely to
become somewhat cyclical. They confirmed the scheme was able to accept a transfer and
had the necessary minimum pension age and restrictions on investment necessary for the
trustees to operate it without causing unauthorised payments to be made.
The ease with which these documents were provided to ReAssure would not have created
much suspicion that pursuing any further enquiries  which Im not convinced the TPR
guidance required ReAssure to make  would have uncovered any further issues. Mr W
appeared to be very much involved in the arrangements to set up his new company and
scheme. I agree with the investigator that he would likely have been able to answer any
further questions to ReAssures satisfaction, if necessary with the involvement of the
introducer or accountant who (whether Mr W fully understood this or not) seems to have
been brought on board.
Was the frequency of the communication ReAssure received cause for alarm?
The wider evidence our investigator has been able to obtain shows that the SSAS provider
contacted ReAssure about eight times. After excluding those contacts being made to obtain
policy information, or respond to questions ReAssure itself asked, about half of them were
chasers. It seems to me the SSAS provider recognised there was little point in excessively
chasing, and its contact with ReAssure appears to be professional and typical of a transfer of
this nature.
The introducer made no contact that I can establish with ReAssure itself  it appears it may
even have sent Mr Ws forms back without any form of covering letter. In my experience an
unregulated introducer would not want to be seen to be involved in the regulated activity of
arranging a transfer from a personal pension. So I dont agree with the CMC that ReAssure
ought to have formed judgements based on the introducers allegedly unsuccessful career
as a financial adviser. If anything, I think ReAssure might have thought that the different,
regulated financial advice business who carried out Mr Ws identify verification (Firm M) was
involved  and that is unlikely to have caused suspicion.
Mr Ws CMC has asked what phone contact took place with Mr W. ReAssure records that
Mr W called it three times to chase matters  once for some paperwork, and twice for the
outstanding payment (those two calls were a month apart). That was in part to be expected
because of the enhanced checks ReAssure was carrying out. Due to the time which has
passed Im not surprised that recordings arent available. I dont consider these calls
constituted Mr W being unusually impatient to transfer, or a warning sign of a scam: theres
nothing to suggest Mr W raised concerns in those calls.Providing ReAssure had sent the Scorpion insert to Mr W as it should have done, Im not
persuaded it would necessarily have needed to initiate enquiries itself by phone. The TPR
guidance at that time left these matters to the provider to best decide, and it wouldnt have
been inconsistent with ReAssures obligations under the FCA Principles and Rules to adopt
a risk-based approach. Given the written enquiries ReAssure did make, outlined above, I
cant fairly say it should have done more. So Ill now address its failure with the insert.
Failure to provide TPR insert directly to Mr W
What I have to consider is whether ReAssures failure to provide this insert made any
difference. In other words, did it cause the loss Mr W has complained about? Having
considered all the evidence on this, including Mr Ws phone conversation with our
investigator and the letter he received from the SSAS provider, Ive reached a very similar
view to the investigator.
Much of the two-page insert focuses on a warning about offers to cash in a pension early
and the tax bill that could result. Mr Ws recollections of what he was told when the
representative visited his home dont suggest he thought he was cashing in his pension
early, but rather that he was making an ongoing investment. It also doesnt appear that Mr W
was offered cash incentives in order to invest, so the warnings about tax consequences
dont appear to be particularly relevant here.
Notably a warning about money being transferred overseas, although mentioned in the
campaign itself, doesnt feature in the insert  and this alone wouldnt necessarily be a
reliable indication of a scam. However the insert does mention cold-calling by pushy
introducers. It suggests doing research on the companys background and finding out how
the proposal can provide a pension at retirement. Finally, it suggests speaking to an adviser
who is registered with the FCA and not associated with the proposal.
As Mr W was cold-called and encouraged to invest by an adviser who wasnt regulated, Ive
given this careful thought. But Ive also borne in mind that before the first opportunity
ReAssure had to send this insert, Mr W had already set up his own company and SSAS
structure with the assistance of the adviser and accountant. (That seems to be why, by the
time of its 24 July 2014 press release, TPR had started suggesting that the insert should be
sent out with annual statements, so that it might reach customers before they spoke to
introducers.)
Mr W may not have known to ask the specific question about how his pension would be paid
at retirement, as he didnt receive the insert. But his recollections indicate he was told that
the funds would mature after seven years, by which time he would be 56 - in other words he
wouldnt be able to access them before that point. That doesnt appear to have concerned
Mr W greatly, so I think its reasonable to assume that he was expecting to be able to draw a
pension (or invest elsewhere, if he wanted to do so) after this investment matured.
Ive also considered what Mr W might have done differently on seeing the warning in the
insert about getting independent, unregulated advice. Closely linked to this is the fact hes
said in his complaint that hed never have invested had he known the hotel development
itself wasnt regulated. Yet the SSAS providers letter dated 20 November 2014 does say
that there would be no regulatory protection if his investment failed. It also suggested that
Mr W take independent legal advice, however he then ticked a box deciding not to do so.
I understand the CMC considers this was too late to influence Mr Ws decision, but the letter
reads as if the SSAS provider hadnt yet placed the investment. According to details
provided by the CMC, the investment was placed one week later. The groundwork for the
investment had of course already been laid, but it is also largely true to say that of the pointat which Mr W should have received the Scorpion insert. So I dont think Mr Ws CMC can
argue this both ways: if the warning about the investment being unregulated came too late
as Mr W was already committed to making the investment, the same argument could be
made in respect of the Scorpion insert which ReAssure wasnt in any position to send earlier.
ReAssure wasnt of course to know that despite acting as independent trustee, with the
responsibilities that might ordinarily suggest, the SSAS provider issued this form of
disclaimer to Mr W. But I think the disclaimer can also be read several ways. Whilst it lets
Mr W know the things the SIPP provider hasnt checked, it also implies that it has to some
extent conducted enquiries into Mr Ws investment in order to identify the issues it thought
he should know about.
There dont already seem to have been any significant doubts in Mr Ws mind, according to
his testimony. So I can see why he might not have been deterred from continuing with his
investment - as despite the disclaimer the SSAS provider issued, the arrangements would
overall have seemed reputable to him. And I cant therefore safely conclude that he would
have reacted in a fundamentally different way to the warning about getting regulated advice
in the Scorpion insert.
The insert does also suggest Mr W carried out his own research. Whilst I appreciate that his
subsequent research into the introducer revealed that they were not the nicest of people, I
cant safely say such an opinion prevailed at the time of his investment  as it may well be
coloured by other peoples experiences of making investments at a similar time to Mr W.
Whereas the remarks I made earlier about the SSAS providers experience in the industry
are also things Mr W would likely have known, or been able to establish through further
research at the time  and I think that would have given him further confidence.
Reassure wasnt able to advise Mr W on the suitability of his proposed investments
Property investments are often mis-labelled (by unregulated parties) as lower risk than they
actually are  particularly in a case like this where there are added currency and
counterparty risks. They can sometimes be seen by investors as a tangible asset which adds
to their popularity. A regulated adviser should be in a position to correct any misimpression
as to the risks  and given that the introducer involved here wasnt regulated, I accept its
likely these risks were underplayed. But I cant say that it was ReAssures role to correct
that. Firstly it didnt know what underlying investment Mr W was making, and Im not satisfied
it had any obligation to find out given that the transfer wouldnt have looked suspicious, as
Ive said above. Secondly, it wasnt advising Mr W on the investment and didnt have any
obligations to him under COBS 9.2.1R.
Mr W was making an investment which the SSAS provider, at least, highlighted would put
his capital at risk  and in a way that there would be no protection for him if things went
wrong. So on balance I think its likely Mr W had already concluded that he was prepared to
take some risk with what hes said wasnt his only pension. Had Mr W been concerned about
the risks (including the lack of regulation and the legal aspects of purchasing property
overseas), I would have expected him to react differently to the SSAS providers letter. It
might have been too late to return his funds to ReAssure. But he would have been able to
avoid suffering the losses in the hotel development and potentially make a different
investment more suitable for his needs.
Blocking the transfer
I agree with the investigator that the FCAs principles and rules meant ReAssure had to pay
due regard to Mr Ws interests and treat him fairly. But at the time Mr W transferred and
given the due diligence ReAssure has shown it carried out into the receiving scheme, Im
satisfied it could have met these obligations by sending the Scorpion insert directly to Mr W.And taking into account everything Ive considered above, if Mr W had received this insert
Im not then persuaded that he would have acted differently as a result. If Mr W did want to
make the transfer then ReAssure would still need to treat him fairly, by processing the
transfer for him.
ReAssure also had no power to block Mr Ws transfer as the CMC has suggested. It had a
legal obligation under section 99 of the Pension Schemes Act 1993 to make a transfer within
six months of application where was a statutory right, as it appears there was in this case. It
spent about four of those six months carrying out due diligence and Ive no reason to say
that it would have been fair or reasonable for it to delay the transfer further.
The remedy of an error (in this case, ReAssure not sending the Scorpion insert directly to
Mr W) is to put Mr W back into the position hed have been in, had the error not occurred. As
I havent been persuaded that the lack of Scorpion insert changed Mr Ws decision to
transfer his pension and invest in Unity Bay, it follows that I dont think ReAssure caused the
loss he suffered. So it wouldnt be fair to require ReAssure to compensate Mr W.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr Ws CMC said that it was disappointed in the provisional decision as it feels ReAssure 
should have done additional due diligence by asking Mr W about his change in occupation 
on the paperwork from being a manual worker to becoming a director. Also, ReAssure 
should have obtained further details on the new pension scheme.
The CMC said that ReAssure failed to realise that it had discretion as to whether or not to 
make the transfer, and it could have noticed several "red flags" from the Scorpion guidance 
 including that Mr W was only 49 years old.  So additional checks for possible pension 
liberation should have been considered.
ReAssure said it agreed with the provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The further points Mr Ws CMC made havent changed my provisional decision. 
I already mentioned that Mr Ws occupation, involving manual work, was one that was 
sometimes pursued on a sole trader basis. Its not clear that ReAssure actually knew what 
Mr Ws specific line of work was, but even if it had done, my point here was that sole traders 
often (on advice, such as from an accountant) structure themselves as limited companies 
instead  particularly in recent times when the tax treatment was thought to be particularly 
favourable.
That would mean Mr W becoming a director of his own company, and I think this would have 
been viewed as being less suspicious than (say) if Mr W had joined a pension scheme for a 
different employer to which he had little clear connection at all. Even though Mr Ws 
company had recently been established, I dont consider at that point in the development of 
the TPR guidance it had this particular type of arrangement in mind. Whereas I think a later 
version of the guidance, after March 2015, was clearer in indicating that scams had moved 
on to this model. So, given both the stage that the TPR guidance was in its development at 
the time, and the status of the receiving SSAS provider in the industry, I consider ReAssure 
acted proportionately here in respect of the risk of scams.The CMC hasnt said what further details ReAssure should have obtained on the new 
pension scheme  Ive noted that it had already asked for and scrutinised the trust deed and 
rules. The CMC hasnt explained what in these documents was a cause for alarm  bearing 
in mind that the scheme was evidently for Mr Ws own company  and I havent found such a 
cause for alarm.
Its correct that the member being under the age of 55 was a potential warning sign for 
pensions liberation. But that doesnt mean liberation was actually taking place, which 
evidently was not the case here: Mr W has confirmed he didnt receive an incentive for 
transferring, and whilst the investment may not have been as successful as hoped Im not 
aware of any investigation that would suggest the investment monies were misappropriated 
in a way that would actually constitute liberation.
The CMC is mistaken that ReAssure was able to apply discretion where a statutory right to 
transfer existed under legislation  in this case the Pensions Act 1993. The statutory right 
was introduced precisely because some pension plans didnt provide for a transfer option in 
the contract (or transfers were entirely at the providers discretion). 
Where the statutory conditions for the right to transfer were fulfilled  as Ive said appears to 
be the case here (and the CMC has not argued otherwise)  any attempt to block the 
transfer would righty have been open to challenge by Mr W, or those representing his 
interests at the time. 
So, ReAssure would have needed a valid reason, backed up by evidence, to consider 
refusing this transfer and overcome the potential challenge that might result. And from what 
Ive seen in this case I dont consider ReAssure had that evidence. Instead, the more likely 
way events might have reached a different outcome is by Mr W having an opportunity to 
reflect on whether he was satisfied the arrangements being made werent a potential scam. 
Thats why I agreed in the provisional decision that Mr W should have been sent the 
Scorpion insert. And although I can never totally rule out the possibility he might have 
changed his mind, for the reasons I explained in that decision I didnt find that the most likely 
outcome on the balance of probabilities. The points his CMC has made have not persuaded 
me to change that view.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint and make no award. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 17 
February 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman