DRN-4430762
The complaint
Mrs S (in her capacity as trustee) and Mr S (as the plan holder) complained that ReAssure 
Life Limited failed to reduce the premiums for Mr Ss life policy when Mr S asked them to do 
this in 2020. 
Another person was also appointed as a trustee so we needed their consent to enable us to 
look into this complaint, which was provided. But it has mostly been the plan holder Mr S 
who has dealt with this complaint, so Ill mainly refer just to Mr S throughout.
To put things right, Mr S wants ReAssure to refund the excess premium amounts he paid, 
over and above the premium he had wanted to pay after October 2020, before the policy 
was amended in May 2022.
Although the policy was taken out with a predecessor business, ReAssure is now 
responsible for the complaint, so Ill just refer to ReAssure as the business concerned in 
order to keep things simpler.
What happened
Mr S took out a life policy with ReAssure in November 1995 and he paid a monthly premium 
which provided a sum assured in the event of his death and cover in the event of total 
permanent disability. The policy was reviewable and over the years there were various policy 
changes, including the premiums and the amount of benefit payable.
Mr S asked ReAssure for a quote to reduce his cover and ReAssure wrote to Mr S on 
25 September 2020 with projections and new costings. ReAssure provided figures showing 
that his current position was that hed need to pay £1,062.45 for a sum assured of £300,000, 
payable in the event of his death or an earlier critical illness. Or Mr S could opt to reduce 
cover to £200,000 and pay a monthly premium of £713.27. 
ReAssure said Mr S didnt need to do anything if he changed his mind and he didnt want to 
reduce his premium and cover but that he needed to tell ReAssure within the next 30 days if 
he wanted to amend his policy. ReAssure said he could let them know his decision in a 
number of different ways: 
a free phone call to ReAssures head office on the number they provided
by signing and posting a letter
by signing and faxing a letter (ReAssure gave the fax number).
Mr S has provided me with a copy of a letter dated 5 October 2020, signed by himself and 
Mrs S as trustee, in which he confirms that he wanted the reduced benefit of £200,000 with a 
monthly premium of £713.27. It also mentions that he enclosed ReAssures Review Form, 
which I've also seen, showing he wanted to revise his cover to the lower amount.
Mr S didnt realise until April 2022 that ReAssure was still collecting a monthly premium of 
£1,062.45. He wrote to ReAssure to say that they had both overlooked this and he asked 
ReAssure to amend the policy as hed requested from October 2020 and return the excess 
payment hed made. 
ReAssure said that as they did not receive any response after issuing projections to Mr S in 
September 2020, the decrease did not take place and so premiums would not be able to be 
refunded. ReAssure asked Mr S to confirm if he still wished to proceed with the decrease.
Mr S said this wasnt satisfactory. When he complained to ReAssure, they didnt uphold his 
complaint, saying that when no response had been received from Mr S after ReAssure wrote 
to him in September 2020, ReAssure had maintained his cover and would have honoured 
any claim during that period. So they werent willing to refund any premiums.   
Mr S brought his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into what happened. 
Our investigator didnt feel he had seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ss complaint. In 
brief summary, he mainly said that there was no proof ReAssure had received Mr Ss 
instructions to reduce cover, so he couldnt say that ReAssure had done anything wrong and 
they couldnt be expected to refund anything to Mr S. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigator. There has been extensive further correspondence and 
our investigator considered the additional points made by Mr S, but he wasnt persuaded to 
change his view. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I sympathise with Mr S. I appreciate how strongly he feels about this complaint and I can 
understand that whats happened has been upsetting and frustrating for him. I want to 
assure Mr S that Ive carried out an independent review and considered everything he has 
told me. But having thought about everything I've seen and been told by both parties, Ive 
independently reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why 
I say this. 
We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive 
approached the complaint. Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues 
I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention 
everything Mr S has brought to my attention and Ive summarised and expressed his 
concerns in my own words. But I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the 
outcome of the complaint.  
In order to uphold this complaint about ReAssure, I would need to see enough evidence to 
show that they did something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. 
The key part of Mr Ss complaint, as I understand it, is that he feels let down by ReAssure 
because they didnt reduce his cover when he wanted this to happen in 2020. 
The matter for me to decide is whether Im persuaded ReAssure received the letter Mr S 
sent on 5 October 2020 when he told them to go ahead with the reduced cover  which 
would have meant hed be paying a reduced premium. I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance 
of probabilities. This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only 
limited information. And I must be impartial. 
My starting point is to assume that when I see a copy of a letter which is correctly 
addressed, and Im told it was sent, that its likely to have been received by the recipient. 
And I have no reason to doubt Mr S when he says he posted his letter dated 5 October 
2020. 
But ReAssure said they have no record of receiving that letter from Mr S and I can see the 
copy hes provided doesnt show his letter was properly addressed to ReAssure. I say this 
because it looks like he didnt include ReAssures name as the addressee. And the building 
he sent his letter to appears to have housed other businesses  it wasnt just occupied by 
ReAssure. So by omitting ReAssures name, its likely that Mr Ss letter wouldnt have 
actually been delivered. I think this could explain why ReAssure didnt receive Mr Ss 
5 October 2020. 
I am also aware that there were problems with postal deliveries throughout 2020 when the 
pandemic impacted on Royal Mail and there were ongoing problems with the post in October 
2020, which got worse over the next couple of months in the run up to Christmas. Theres 
always a chance that post can go astray and I think it's fair to say that there was a more than 
usual likelihood that items sent in the post around this time were at risk of going missing, and 
particularly if they were incompletely addressed. 
On balance, I dont think its likely that ReAssure received Mr Ss 5 October letter. So I dont 
find that ReAssure made any error or that it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it failed to 
carry out instructions it didnt receive.
I cant fairly hold ReAssure responsible for any possible problems with postal deliveries or 
other matters outside ReAssures control. And there were various ways Mr S could have 
communicated his instructions, for instance by phoning ReAssure. I dont think ReAssure 
made it difficult for Mr S to get in touch or that it was unreasonable for ReAssure to expect to 
hear back from Mr S within 30 days if hed wanted to make a policy amendment. 
Looked at overall, I find that ReAssure was reasonably entitled to assume, as they said they 
would if nothing was heard back from Mr S, that he had changed his mind and decided not 
to reduce cover.
The fact that Mr S and one of his trustees has assured me that I can be certain that Mr S 
posted the 5 October letter isnt enough of a reason for me to uphold his complaint because 
this isnt good enough evidence overall in these particular circumstances to prove that 
ReAssure received the letter. 
On balance, I dont find that the available evidence is enough to support Mr Ss complaint 
that ReAssure must have received his letter and mishandled things at their end. And as long 
as Mr S was paying the higher premium, he was entitled to the higher benefit amount. In 
these circumstances, I cant say that the policy wasnt providing him with full value 
throughout so this isnt a reason for me to uphold his complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr S may still disagree with what I've said. So perhaps its helpful if I also 
mention here that even if I did think that ReAssure had received Mr Ss letter (and to be 
clear, I dont think that, because the balance of the evidence doesnt support me making 
such a  finding) the ombudsman approach is to look at how both sides played a part in what 
happened. We expect consumers to take reasonable steps themselves to limit the impact of things 
going wrong. So I would need to keep in mind that Mr S could have seen from his bank 
statements at the time (as he did later) that he was still paying the higher premium. This 
would have suggested to him much sooner that the policy change he wanted to make hadnt 
happened. Mr Ss 5 October letter refers to sky rocketing premiums and he says his 
financial situation means taking a reduced benefit at a lower premium is essential. So 
I would have reasonably expected Mr S to keep a close eye on the premiums being taken 
over the next couple of months to make sure ReAssure had put in place the policy 
amendments hed instructed it to make. 
And even if hed overlooked doing that, the next annual statement for the policy ought to 
have alerted Mr S to the fact that no policy amendments had been made. 
With all these considerations in mind, I would be unlikely to find it fair to attribute to 
ReAssure loss that Mr S could reasonably have mitigated by taking steps himself to avoid 
paying as much in premiums.  
The investigator mentioned that another reason for not upholding this complaint was that 
one of the trustees hadnt signed the necessary declaration on the policy amendment forms. 
This has generated a lot of correspondence and whilst Mr S and the trustee concerned both 
say they are sure that the trustees appointment was terminated, theres a lack of paperwork 
to show that theyre right about this. But I dont need to make any findings on this point 
because this isnt why Im not upholding the complaint. And it makes no difference to the 
outcome of this complaint whether or not all the people who were ever trustees were 
trustees throughout or for only part of the time. So I dont need to say more about this. 
Although if theres nothing in writing to show that a former trustee is no longer involved, then 
Mr S might want to speak to ReAssure about completing a deed of amendment to formally 
remove an inactive trustee, to avoid this issue being a problem in future. 
To sum up, everything I've seen and been told by both parties leads me to the conclusion 
that I havent seen enough overall to be able to say that ReAssure has done anything wrong 
here or acted towards Mr S in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable. 
So I cant uphold this complaint or award the compensation Mr S would like me to. 
I hope that setting things out as I've done is helpful and even though this isnt the outcome 
Mr S hoped for, he will at least feel that his complaint has been fully considered by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr S disagreed with my findings. He sent me detailed representations which I very briefly 
summarise here. 
He said that he wrote ReAssure Life Ltd on the envelope, followed by the rest of the 
address details. So his view was that, on a balance of probabilities, his letter of 5 October 
had reached its destination, but wasnt acted upon by ReAssure.
Mr S said that Reassure was wrong to say that he should have used other options such as 
telephone or faxing the letter when he believed that his 5 October letter had been delivered 
and wrong to say that the address in his letter was incomplete. 
He repeated to me that he hadnt opened bank statements during the pandemic for fear of 
infection and because he was preoccupied with the impact of COVID on a close family 
member living overseas.
ReAssure has sent no further information.
The deadline for responses has now passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with 
my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr S for responding to my provisional decision. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels strongly about what happened and he holds a different view to 
me. But I havent been provided with any new information that changes what I think about 
this case. Id already considered the main points he mentioned again when thinking about 
my provisional decision and addressed all the points raised which had a bearing on the 
outcome. In conclusion, I cant say with any certainty exactly what happened to Mr Ss 5 October 
letter. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I dont doubt that Mr S is certain about everything hes told me. But the other evidence Ive 
seen doesnt show me that its more likely than not that hes right  so thats not enough for 
me to be able to uphold this complaint. What Ive seen is that ReAssures name wasnt 
shown on his typed letter as I would have reasonably expected to see if hed used the full 
address details. 
Hes said that the policy number would have indicated that the letters final destination was 
ReAssure. But I dont think anyone else opening the letter (if thats what happened) would 
have had any particular reason to identify this reference was a ReAssure plan number. 
Taking into account that ReAssure has said it has no record of having received this letter, as 
I must do in order to be fair to both parties and keeping in mind the wider circumstances at 
the time, which suggest it was plausible that the letter didnt reach ReAssure, I cant safely 
conclude that ReAssure received Mr Ss 5 October letter.
I noted what Mr S said about not opening his bank statements, but this doesnt change 
anything. Given that he had access to information that wouldve alerted him sooner to the 
fact that the policy hadnt changed, it's fair to say that he could have taken steps that were 
potentially open to him to mitigate any loss. There is a reasonable expectation that 
consumers should do this and so this would be a factor if I upheld the complaint and redress 
was a consideration. But to be clear, I mentioned this in my provisional decision only to help 
explain why, even if I were to uphold the complaint (which I didnt do) it would be unlikely to 
result in the outcome Mr S was hoping for. It makes no difference overall. 
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received that change what I think about 
this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. I hope that this additional explanation will help provide an assurance 
that my decision reflects the ombudsman approach to determining complaints fairly and 
reasonably, taking into account the available evidence and applying the test of balance of 
probabilities. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman