DRN-4358422
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined their home insurance 
claim. Any reference to QIC in this decision includes its respective agents unless specified 
otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved so Ill summarise 
what Ive found to be the key points.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their QIC policy for an escape of water from their 
bathroom into the lounge below. QIC sent a surveyor to their property, who said the 
water was likely coming from the shower cubicle but made no finding on the cause.
The surveyor said Mr and Mrs M would need to arrange their own plumber to find the 
cause of the water damage and fix the issue before QIC could consider the claim 
further.
Mr and Mrs M appointed and paid for a plumber who found and repaired the leak 
which they said was coming from a drainage pipe, underneath the shower floor tiles 
and MDF shower base. The plumber also carried out the necessary works to make 
good any damage after the leak had been fixed. Mr and Mrs M sent QIC evidence of 
the costs they incurred along with photographs as previously advised by its surveyor.
QIC declined the claim on the basis that their surveyor had noted in their report that 
some fresh sealant had been applied in an area of the shower. And on receipt of the 
further images from Mr and Mrs M showing the area underneath the shower after it 
had been removed, this appeared to be the same area where the wooden beams 
were most wet. QIC therefore concluded that a failure of the sealant/gradual 
deterioration was the cause of the damage which is excluded under the policy.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They said they acted on the advice of QICs surveyor by 
instructing a plumber to find and repair the damage and that the surveyor never 
mentioned any suspicions regarding failed sealant. They thought it was unfair of QIC 
to decline the claim after theyd incurred costs. They also provided a letter from their 
plumber confirming the cause of the leak.
QIC maintained its position, so Mr and Mrs M brought a complaint to this Service. On 
balance, our investigator thought the exclusion had been fairly applied and so didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
 
The complaint was passed to me to decide. In September 2023 I issued a provisional 
decision explaining my intention to uphold it. Ive included part of what I said in this below.
Mr and Mrs Ms plumber has confirmed in writing that there was a leak from their 
main shower drainage pipe found underneath the shower floor.
QIC seem to accept theres been an escape of water at Mr and Mrs Ms property. But 
the cover available for this is subject to certain terms, conditions and exclusions.
In declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim, QIC has referenced an exclusion in the policy 
which says that QIC doesnt cover  loss or damage caused by sealant or grout 
failing to work properly or by an inappropriate sealant or grout being used.
For QIC to be able to rely on this exclusion to decline the claim, it must be able to 
show, on balance of probabilities, that it applies. But from what Ive seen so far, Im 
not satisfied its done this. Ill explain why.
QICs surveyor report said that there were no visible signs of defect to the grout or 
sealant but noted there was previous fresh application of sealant towards the front 
right corner of the shower. The surveyor makes no comment on the significance of 
this or that it has any bearing on the escape of water being claimed for.
QIC says it reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms plumbers findings but didnt find them 
persuasive as there was no photographic evidence of the alleged failed pipe. Instead, 
it said the images showed the floor underneath the shower was most wet in the area 
the fresh sealant was applied. This, alongside the surveyors comments led it to 
conclude this was most likely where the water escaped from and so wasnt covered 
in line with the above exclusion.
In my opinion, the images Ive seen show multiple areas of wet timber. On balance, I 
would disagree the images show this to be more concentrated in the area QIC 
alleges. Im not persuaded by QICs argument relating to this. And a small area of 
fresh sealant simply isnt enough in this case to demonstrate that this was the most 
likely cause of the escape of water being claimed for by Mr and Mrs M.
It follows based on what Ive seen so far, Im not currently persuaded that QIC has 
shown the exclusion its relied on applies. To put things right Im minded to direct it to 
accept the claim and pay 8% simple interest on the claim settlement it pays to Mr and 
Mrs M.
I note Mr and Mrs Ms point that they only instructed a plumber on QICs advice to do 
so. They say they had to save up for this work and were unable to use their shower 
while doing so. Mr and Mrs M believe they complied with all the requests QIC made 
and so have found its handling of the claim particularly upsetting.
Given the point that Mr and Mrs M seem to have trace and access cover on their 
policy, Im unsure as to why this wasnt claimed under to find the source of the leak, 
and instead QIC required them to instruct their own plumber to carry out the works 
before it would consider the claim, potentially elongating the process.
Furthermore, Ive not seen evidence to show that in telling Mr and Mrs M to appoint 
their own plumber, that QIC suitably managed their expectations  as I think would 
be reasonable in this particular case  about what it expected from them when doing 
this and the potential impacts on the claim.
Taking everything of what Ive seen so far into consideration, Im currently persuaded 
theres been a level of avoidable distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs M 
in this case. Im likely to conclude that QIC should also pay them £150 compensation 
to recognise this.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional decision, but QIC did not. In summary, its reasons 
for this were:
It maintains the images from Mr and Mrs Ms plumber show the area thats suffered 
the most water damage to be below the application of fresh sealant. The wood 
colouring and nature of the damage is consistent with this happening gradually.
Its not seen any images from Mr and Mrs M to determine that a leaking pipe was the cause of the damage. It says the images show the water damage to be above the 
wastepipe which contradicts Mr and Mrs Ms plumbers findings as water flows 
downwards and therefore would be below the pipe if this was the escape point.
It doesnt agree the fresh sealant was to a small area.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive summarised my findings to focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint, I can assure QIC I have reviewed its response in full before issuing my final 
decision. And in doing so, the outcome I reached remains unchanged. Ill explain why.
Im still of the opinion that from what is visible in the images provided, multiple areas look to 
be wet underneath the shower. But even if the sealant has leaked at some point as QIC 
allege, it hasnt persuaded me that this has contributed to, or been the cause of the leak 
thats being claimed for in this case.
Im satisfied that QIC had sufficient opportunity to assess and make a finding on the likely 
cause of the damage when it sent its surveyor out to Mr and Mrs Ms property on notification 
of the claim. But no such finding seems to have been reached and instead Mr and Mrs M 
were advised to gather this information themselves before the claim could be considered.
QICs surveyor made note of a number of observations including previous fresh application 
of sealant towards the front right corner adjacent to the shower door, but the overall finding 
on the cause of damage was Level of repair presently unknown until plumbers attendance 
and any invasive repairs undertaken, with no further mention of the sealant or its potential 
involvement in the leak. Something I think the surveyor likely wouldve mentioned as part of 
their findings, had they thought that was a possibility. 
In any case, Mr and Mrs M did as QIC advised and appointed their own plumber to diagnose 
the cause. The plumber provided written confirmation saying that the cause of visible 
damage was the result of a leak in the main shower drainage pipe. And Ive been given no 
persuasive reason to explain why the plumber would say this if it wasnt the case. 
Mr and Mrs Ms plumber provided their expert opinion after seeing and attending to the 
entirety of the damage in person, whereas QIC has mainly made its findings based on 
photographs sent in retrospectively on its request. With all that in mind, Im more persuaded 
by Mr and Mrs Ms plumbers findings.
It follows on balance of the information available to me, Im not persuaded that QIC has 
shown the exclusion its relied on applies in the circumstances of this particular case. To put 
things right QIC should now accept the claim and pay 8% simple interest on the claim 
settlement it pays to Mr and Mrs M. And as set out in my provisional decision, it should also 
pay them £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
QIC Europe Ltd must:
Accept the claim. 8% simple interest should be added to the claim settlement amount 
QIC pays to Mr and Mrs M from the date of the loss to the date of settlement.Pay Mr and Mrs M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in 
this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman