DRN-3268894
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limiteds (Watford 
Insurances) decision to cancel his motor insurance policy on the basis that his car was 
impounded at the time he took out the policy. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 January 2022, explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
On 10 January 2021, Mr S was stopped by the police for driving with no insurance 
and his car was impounded.
The next day Mr S arranged a new policy through his broker and went to pick up the 
car. He was advised at the impound to check whether he was covered to drive the 
car away from the impound. So, he called his broker who said that he wasnt covered 
while the car was in the impound. In the meantime, Mr S took out a policy with a 
different underwriter to cover those circumstances and he was able to retrieve his 
car.
Three weeks later Mr S was informed by his broker that his policy had been 
cancelled by Watford Insurance and the cancellation would be backdated to the day 
after Mr S took his car from the impound. The premium was also refunded. However, 
Mr S was told that he would have to declare the cancellation to any future insurers. 
Mr S wasnt happy about this, as it would mean his premiums would increase and so 
he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator spoke to Watford Insurance and initially, they informally agreed to 
remove the cancellation from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) and 
treat the policy as though Mr S had cancelled it himself. In his view our investigator 
confirmed that he thought Watford Insurance should take the necessary steps to do 
that. However, Watford Insurance later changed their mind, disagreeing with the 
view, and said they believed the record should show that they cancelled the policy.
Mr S also wasnt happy with the investigators view. He felt that he should have been 
awarded some compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused 
by Watford Insurances decision to cancel his policy. 
As neither party accepted the view, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to a 
different conclusion to our investigator, for different reasons, and Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint. 
Ive first looked at what happened, to decide whether Watford Insurance have done 
anything wrong. Mr S car was impounded because he was stopped by the police for 
driving without insurance. Before Mr S could take his car out of the impound, he 
needed to take out an insurance policy. He therefore phoned the broker who Ill call S 
and took out a policy during a sales call. 
Ive listened to the sales call and note that when Mr S was asked to confirm that Any 
accidents, claims, convictions you may have had, have been disclosed, he replied, 
Ah, yeah... When the sales adviser asked Mr S to confirm that everything was still 
the same, he said, Yeh, everythings the same. Around eight minutes into the call, 
Mr S confirmed he was happy to take the cover out on the basis of the limited 
information provided during the call. The fact that Mr S car was currently being in the 
impound wasnt mentioned and the broker went on to sell Mr S a motor insurance 
policy with Watford Insurance.
Before Mr S took his car out of the impound, he phoned his broker to check whether 
the policy provided cover for his car in the impound and for removal from the 
impound. The broker said it didnt, but he could ask the underwriters to consider 
whether they might provide cover for those circumstances. Having arranged 
insurance with another underwriter Mr S removed his car from the impound. Three 
weeks later, Watford Insurance made the decision to cancel Mr S policy as at 
13 January 2021, provided him with a refund of the premiums and recorded the 
cancellation on the CUE. 
Mr S is unhappy that Watford Insurance cancelled the policy and recorded the 
cancellation on the CUE database. He told us that he didnt know when he took out 
the policy that the car wouldnt be covered while in the impound. So, Ive thought 
about whether the policy was mis-sold to him, and Im not currently persuaded it was. 
If Mr S needed insurance to cover specific circumstances, it was up to him to specify 
that to the broker. On the sales call Mr S chose to answer the question about 
whether everything was still the same, by saying yes, rather than disclose the 
change of circumstances. And as he was able to ask whether the policy would 
provide cover for his car while in the impound, on his second call with the broker, Im 
not sure why he couldnt have asked that question during the sales call. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Mr S was misled into thinking that the policy would 
cover his car while in an impound.
Ive next considered whether Watford Insurance acted in-line with the policy terms 
and conditions in cancelling the policy, and Im currently of the view that they have. 
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions and note that in Section 17, under the 
heading: Our Cancellation Rights, it says:
We have the right to cancel your policy immediately, at any time, during the 
Period of Insurance, where there is evidence of fraud or a valid reason for 
doing
soValid reasons allowing us to immediately cancel may include, but 
are not limited to:
e) if we discover that Your Car is currently impounded by any government or 
public authority
As soon as Watford Insurance became aware that the car was in the impound, they were entitled under the policy terms and conditions, to cancel the cover, which they 
did. Having taken the decision to cancel the cover, Watford Insurance then entered a 
notice of the cancellation onto the CUE. The CUE is a database where insurers put 
information about policies taken out by their policyholders to enable other insurance 
providers to get a clear understanding of the risk presented by customers. Insurers 
have an obligation to provide factually correct information to CUE, which Watford 
Insurance have done in this case. I therefore dont think Watford Insurance have 
done anything wrong in notifying CUE of their decision to cancel Mr S policy. 
Having provisionally concluded that Watford Insurance didnt do anything wrong in 
cancelling Mr S policy and providing that information to CUE, Ive gone on to 
consider whether theyve treated Mr S unfairly in doing so. 
Watford Insurance have provided their underwriting criteria in relation to covering the 
risk of a car kept in an impound, which says:
Impounded Vehicle: . Do not confirm cover until you have discussed 
with..as we do not cover impounded vehicles, the policy is likely to be 
cancelled.
Having considered this criterion, Im currently of the view that Watford Insurances 
decision to cancel Mr S policy in these circumstances is in-line with their 
underwriting criteria and likely consistent with how theyd approach the same 
scenario with other policyholders. Im also currently of the view that Watford 
Insurance havent acted unfairly in providing details of their decision to cancel the 
policy, to CUE. In doing so theyve taken the same steps that any other insurer would 
be required to take in those circumstances. Im therefore not intending to uphold 
Mr S complaint.
It may be helpful if I explain why I havent addressed whether or not Mr S made a 
qualifying misrepresentation, when our investigator had addressed this in the view. I 
note that Watford Insurance havent exercised any of the remedies that might be 
available to them, in the event that a qualifying misrepresentation had been made, 
such as voiding the policy or refusing to refund the premiums, so its not necessary 
for me to consider whether a qualifying misrepresentation was made. What I need to 
decide, as explained above, is whether under the policy terms and conditions, 
Watford Insurance were entitled to cancel the policy in Mr S circumstances. And for 
the reasons Ive given, Im currently of the view that they were. 
I asked Mr S and Watford Insurance to let me have any further comments or evidence to 
consider by 20 January 2022. Watford Insurance confirmed they had nothing to add. Mr S 
provided his detailed comments on the provisional decision, which Ive addressed below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said he felt, after reading the provisional decision, that Id only listened to the initial 
sales call before making my decision. Id like to reassure Mr S that I had listened to all of the 
calls and reviewed all of the documents on the case file before coming to my provisional 
decision on his complaint. 
Mr S has denied that he didnt accept our investigators view. He said he felt that in 
suggesting he hadnt accepted the view Id demonstrated that I hadnt considered any of the evidence on the case file. Im sorry that Mr S felt aggrieved by my summary of his position 
and thought I hadnt considered all of his evidence (which I have). However, as Watford 
Insurance didnt accept the view, and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the complaint, 
it therefore moved to the second stage of our process, regardless of whether or not Mr S had 
accepted the view. As we explain on our website, either party to the complaint is entitled to 
request an ombudsmans decision on the complaint. 
Mr S also feels that Id concluded he didnt answer a question correctly on the sales call. 
However, I didnt say that in my provisional decision. I pointed out that Mr S didnt mention 
the fact that the car was in the impound, and if he had, he may have found out at an earlier 
point in time, that the insurance he was purchasing wouldnt cover that circumstance. In any 
event, as I explained in my provisional decision, there is no need for me to come to a 
conclusion about whether Mr S gave correct or incorrect information because Im not 
concerned with whether a misrepresentation was made. Rather, the question Im deciding is 
whether Watford Insurance did anything wrong in cancelling Mr S insurance after theyd 
found out that the car was in the impound when the insurance was taken out. And for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that they did not.
Finally, Mr S has said that I incorrectly assumed that he should have known about impound 
insurance which he did not. But again, I didnt suggest that, rather, I said that if Mr S had 
explained his current circumstances to Watford Insurance, rather than confirming everything 
was the same as when he last took out insurance, that would have provided an opportunity 
for Watford Insurance to explain to him that their policy would not provide cover for those 
circumstances. 
While Ive given Mr S comments careful consideration, they havent persuaded me to come 
to a different conclusion to that reached in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons set 
out in my provisional decision, and this decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
If Mr S decides to not accept this decision, then his legal rights will not be affected, and he 
will be free to take advice about how he might otherwise pursue a resolution to his 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman