DRN-1944966
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Wave Lending Limited incorrectly valued a property when they 
took out a mortgage with it. They are also unhappy with the service it has provided while 
theyve been attempting to sell the property.
 
What happened
In 2007 Mr and Mrs M bought a property with the intention of renting it out. They took out an 
interest only buy-to-let mortgage with Wave, to complete the purchase. The mortgage term 
was nine years and the application confirmed that the intention was to sell the property to 
repay the balance at the expiry of the term.
The mortgage term expired in August 2016. Mr and Mrs M began marketing the property for 
sale. They found that the property value had decreased significantly since they purchased it.
They received some offers between 2016 and 2019. All of which wouldve meant there was 
a shortfall on the mortgage that would still need repaying after the property was sold. As a 
result, they had to request permission from Wave to accept the offers received.
Wave agreed to several offers put to it being accepted. But the sales fell through.
As a result of the term having ended in August 2016 and the balance remaining outstanding, 
Wave instructed solicitors in April 2019 to begin recovery action. Mr and Mrs M informed 
Wave it had received another offer on the property so asked that it cease recovery action 
and allow them additional time to sell. Wave agreed they could proceed with the offer but 
declined to cease legal action  due to the length of time since the original mortgage term 
expired. It said they could attempt to complete the sale while the action was ongoing.
Mr and Mr M complained to Wave. They said it had over valued the property when they took 
out the mortgage. They said they felt the valuation had used incorrect comparison values 
and not included important information about the tenure. They also said Wave had caused a 
number of the offers theyd received on the property to fall through due to its slow response 
times and were unhappy it would not cease legal action to allow them to sell the property.
Wave didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had appointed a suitably qualified 
third party to carry out the valuations. It also noted that the valuations were for its lending 
purposes only. Regarding its response to the offers made, while it had needed to consider 
the offers, the repayment proposal and on a couple of occasions instruct further valuations to 
decide it they were reasonable, it felt it hadnt caused any undue delays. And it thought it 
had acted reasonably towards Mr and Mrs M by allowing the mortgage to continue 
significantly beyond its original term while they attempted to arrange a sale. 
Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs M asked our service to look into their complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think Wave had done anything 
wrong. He felt Wave was entitled to rely on the opinion of the third-party valuer when it 
agreed to lend and that it wasnt responsible for the accuracy of the valuation. He also didnt 
think Wave had acted unreasonably when Mr and Mrs M had attempted to sell the property.
Mr and Mr M disagreed. They said they believed Wave had been grossly negligent when 
valuing the property. As Mr and Mrs M did not agree with the investigators opinion, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M took out their buy-to-let mortgage with Wave in 2007. As part of a mortgage 
application, it is standard practice for lenders to instruct a valuation of a property. A lenders 
valuation is for the purposes of the lenders themselves - to make sure that the property is a 
suitable security, rather than an in-depth survey of the condition of the property. Buyers are 
often encouraged to commission their own report, before purchasing a property. 
Ive seen a copy of the valuation which Mr and Mrs M say is incorrect. It confirms that the 
valuation report was prepared for the benefit of Wave  so Im satisfied it was solely for its 
purposes. Mr and Mrs M have confirmed that they didnt instruct a separate valuation 
themselves - which I think wouldve been reasonable in the circumstances, given the 
property was being bought as an investment, to generate a rental return- but instead relied 
on Waves valuation.
Mr and Mrs M have raised a number of issues with the valuation report  including the 
comparable properties used and problems with the tenure. And they say that the overall 
valuation given was incorrect. But we havent been provided with any evidence, beyond their 
testimony, to show that the valuation carried out in 2007 was wrong. Theyve talked about 
the value of the property now as being evidence that it was overvalued previously. But house 
prices are subject to fluctuations caused by a variety of market conditions and can move up 
or down. So, I dont think current market values being lower is necessarily indicative of 
valuations carried out years previously being incorrect.
In any event a lenders valuation isnt usually carried out by the lender themselves, as they 
are not experts in property valuation. The lender will instead instruct a specialist to carry 
these out. The lender, in this case Wave, is not responsible for the contents or accuracy of 
the valuation  which a significant number of the points Mr and Mrs M have raised relate to. 
And our service is not usually the relevant organisation to consider the contents of surveys 
and valuations and whether errors were made. This is because carrying out a valuation is 
not an activity that is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  which sets the 
rules under which we operate. And surveyors are regulated separately.
When it comes to valuations, wed expect a lender to instruct an appropriately qualified 
specialist. Provided that it does so, the lender would usually be reasonably entitled to rely on 
the specialists independent opinion.
Here Wave appointed a third-party to carry out the valuation. The information Ive seen 
indicates that this business was a suitably qualified specialist. So, I think Wave was entitled 
to rely on its opinion when deciding to lend  particularly as there was nothing presented at 
the time to dispute the valuation. Mr and Mrs M say Wave shouldve been aware of some of 
the issues theyve now highlighted, particularly relating to the tenure, because another 
lender declined an application when these issues arose. But unless that information was 
provided to Wave at the time of the application, I dont think there was anything that wouldve 
led it to reasonably question the valuation it received. And Ive not seen anything to suggest 
this information was provided to Wave at the time of the application. So, in respect of the 
valuation of the property, I dont think Wave has done anything wrong. Turning to the service provided by Wave, as Ive mentioned the original mortgage term 
expired in August 2016. At that point full repayment was due  but wasnt made. I think 
Wave wouldve been reasonably entitled at that point to seek repayment.
Wave instead allowed the interest only mortgage to continue on a rolling basis, with Mr and 
Mrs M making the required monthly repayments, to allow them to attempt to sell the 
property. I think this was reasonable. 
Ive seen evidence that several offers were made on the property and that these proposals 
were put forward to Wave  as they wouldve resulted in a payment shortfall. Looking at the 
circumstances of each of the offers, I dont think Wave acted unreasonably.
With the first offer that was received by Wave in November 2016 it required a new valuation 
of the property, which it instructed, to see if the offer was reasonable. It also required 
proposals for repayment of the shortfall. From what Ive seen this was requested from Mr 
and Mrs M in a reasonable time and, once the required information was received, Wave 
informed them, in February 2017, that it was willing to accept that offer.
That offer subsequently fell through but the information Ive seen doesnt indicate this was 
due to Waves actions. Ive seen evidence to show that after Wave accepted the proposal Mr 
and Mrs M thanked it and confirmed theyd move ahead  with no indication the buyer was 
upset with the time taken to that point. The offer subsequently fell through in June 2017, four 
months after Wave had agreed to the sale. So, I dont agree that this was caused by Wave.
When that offer fell through a second offer was received and put to Wave in July 2017. It 
provided a response, accepting the offer, in a couple of weeks. This was due to it already 
having a recent valuation and details of how the shortfall (which wouldve been of a similar 
level) would be repaid  information it needed to consider the offer. The information Ive 
seen shows Wave then didnt hear anything until it was told in November 2017 that the buyer 
had withdrawn. Again, I cant reasonably say Wave was the cause of this.
A further offer was put to Wave in early 2018. This was significantly lower than the previous 
offers. And this prompted Wave to request a further valuation (given it had been over a year 
since the last one) and further information around how the now increased shortfall would be 
repaid. I can see that this offer was again accepted by Wave in June 2018  and at that point 
Mr and Mrs M didnt indicate there were any issues with the sale. Wave then didnt hear 
anything further until the offer had fallen through.
There was then an offer that Wave did not accept on the basis that the buyers wanted to rent 
the property for twelve months first, before completing the purchase. As the mortgage term 
had already expired, I dont think Wave acted unreasonably by declining this proposal.
There was then a final offer received in April 2019  by which time Wave had already begun 
recovery action, including instructing solicitors. I can see it again confirmed itd be willing to 
accept the proposal, but declined to cease legal proceedings, so as to not set matters back 
in the event the offer fell through. Again, I dont think this was unreasonable  particularly 
considering the time that had passed since the mortgage term had officially ended.
From the information Ive seen, and from what Mr and Mrs M have said, it appears that 
Wave preferred at times to correspond by phone whereas Mr and Mrs M wouldve preferred 
email. And this sometimes led to there being gaps in communication. But I dont think Wave 
was unreasonable in following its usual processes when communicating with Mr and Mrs M. 
And based on what Ive seen, I dont think Wave acted unreasonably or unnecessarily 
delayed matters, when it was asked to consider offers for the property.Taking everything into account, I think Wave treated Mr and Mrs M fairly following the end of 
the original mortgage term. It allowed them a significant amount of time to attempt to sell the 
property before commencing recovery action. I can see there were a number of 
unsuccessful attempts, but I dont think I can reasonably say Wave caused those to fall 
trough. So overall, I dont think it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman