DRN-2745111
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Cynergy Bank Limited cant provide him with information on accounts he 
had with them.
Mr I is being represented in this complaint by Ms I. For ease of reference Ill refer to both Mr I 
and Ms I as Mr I in my decision.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr I wrote to Cynergy, asking for information about two accounts he had 
with them. These accounts dated back to 1983/84, and X provided Cynergy with the account 
numbers. He chased Cynergy for a reply to his letter in both February 2020 and May 2020.
Cynergy replied to Mr I on 26 May 2020, apologising for the delay. They explained that they 
hadnt been able to trace the two accounts hed asked about. They also said that, if he could 
provide them with more information, they could attempt to trace the accounts again.
Mr I was unhappy with Cynergys response and raised a complaint. In their response to the 
complaint, Cynergy said they were still unable to trace the two accounts Mr I had asked 
about. But they had traced a third account for him, which had been closed in February 2000, 
and they provided him with a closing statement for this account. Mr I was still unhappy, and 
he didnt know what had happened to the money in the account Cynergy had traced. So he 
brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Cynergy had explained to Mr I that they only kept information on closed 
accounts for a limited period. And, because of the time thatd passed since his accounts 
were closed, the investigator thought it reasonable that Cynergy no longer had the 
information to provide to Mr I. And he thought the apology Cynergy had given for the delay in 
responding to his query was sufficient. So he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr I didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he hadnt been provided with a 
substantial response as to the banks obligations towards their customers based on the 
specific legal framework; and didnt think that searching for an account number on their 
systems and getting no results exonerated [them] from any liability.
Mr I also didnt agree with the investigator that details of his closed accounts were 
unnecessary personal information and he considered that his relationship with Cynergy 
was ongoing and hadnt finished in February 2000. So he thought that Cynergy should be 
able to provide the information hed asked for. He also said that he didnt close the account 
in February 2000, so Cynergy should be able to tell him why the account was closed and 
what happened to the money.
Because Mr I didnt agree with the investigator, this has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
I, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this has caused Mr I. And I understand hes saying he 
had no knowledge of the account being closed in February 2000, or what happened to the 
money. But, for me to agree that Cynergy did anything wrong, Id need to be satisfied that 
they havent taken appropriate steps to trace his accounts, or that they deleted information 
about closed accounts when they shouldnt have. And I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen that Mr I initially contacted Cynergy by letter on 30 December 2019. He asked for 
information on two accounts - a Deposit Account and a Fixed Account - hed held jointly with 
another person. He provided account numbers, and said they dated back to 1983-1984.
Because he didnt receive a response to this letter, Mr I sent Cynergy chaser letters on 14 
February 2020 and 4 May 2020. Cynergy responded on 26 May 2020, explaining that they 
couldnt trace any accounts from the information Mr I had provided, and asked if he could 
provide copies of any bank documentation so they could try and search again. Cynergy 
also apologised for the delay in responding to Mr I.
Cynergy have explained they didnt receive the letter of 31 December 2109 and were only 
aware of Mr Is request when they received the 14 February 2020 letter. And, because of the 
time it takes for them to trace old accounts, and because of reduced staffing levels as a 
result of the national lockdown in force at the time, this caused a delay in them responding.
Ive seen nothing to show me that Mr I didnt send the letter of 31 December 2019, but Ive 
seen nothing to show me that Cynergy received this. While this was unfortunate, I cant hold 
Cynergy responsible for a letter not reaching them. But, when Cynergy received the letter of 
14 February 2020, I wouldve expected them to acknowledge this, and give Mr I an idea of 
how long it would take to answer his query. And they didnt do this. Which meant that Mr I 
sent a further letter chasing Cynergy, before he received their response to his initial query.
Cynergy couldve done better, and not doing so caused Mr I some frustration. But Cynergys 
reasons for the delay were reasonable, and they didnt cause Mr I any financial or other 
detriment. So, because of this, Im satisfied with the apology they gave, and I wouldnt 
expect them to do anything more about this.
Cynergy have explained theyre only required to keep customer information on closed 
accounts for 10 years based on a mixture of our legal and regulatory obligations and 
limitation periods. Theyve also explained that they may keep some data longer than 10 
years if we cannot delete it for legal, regulatory or technical reasons.
Cynergys data retention policy is something they wouldve agreed with their regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority, and something that would also have to comply with whatever 
data protection legislation had been in place, at any given time, since Mr I opened the 
accounts. Because of this, I dont think Cynergy have done anything wrong by not being able to 
provide information on accounts that, based on the limited information Ive seen, were likely 
closed almost 40 years ago. So I wont be asking Cynergy to make any further attempts to 
trace these accounts unless Mr I can provide them with any documentation relating to the 
accounts, as requested in Cynergys letter of 26 May 2020.
Following Mr Is complaint, Cynergy also managed to trace another account for him. Details 
of this account werent requested by Mr I in any of his letters, so I dont think Cynergy acted 
unreasonably by not referring to this account in their letter of 26 May 2020.
Ive seen that this account was a 3 Month Money Market Account which was opened on 25 
November 1999 and matured on 25 February 2000  3-months after opening. Based on this 
information, Im satisfied this was a fixed term account and, although Mr I says he didnt 
close this, the closure would be automatic on maturity. And the £291,770.79 maturity funds 
wouldve been paid out in accordance with the instructions Mr I provided, probably when the 
account was opened.
I appreciate Mr Is comments that he still considers himself to be a customer of Cynergy, but 
Cynergy wouldnt be able to provide the information on this closed account (including where 
the maturity funds went to) because of their obligations on keeping data on closed accounts. 
So I wont be asking Cynergy to provide him with any more information about this account.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Is complaint about Cynergy Bank 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr l to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman