DRN-3034463
The complaint
Ms M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (referred to in this 
decision as AMEX) isnt accurately recording information about her accounts on her credit 
file.
What happened
Ms M entered a debt management plan (DMP) and AMEX was one of her creditors (one 
charge card account and one credit card account). She noticed that her charge card account 
was reported as having late payments over the past six years even though she had an 
agreement in place about her payments and she was making these on time. She raised a 
complaint and was told her accounts hadnt been closed and they would remain open and if 
they went into default this would be recorded on her credit file for six years. Ms M says other 
creditors have taken a different approach and she doesnt think AMEX is treating her fairly 
as the ongoing adverse information means she cant improve her credit score. 
AMEX didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. It said that it was reporting the information it held for 
Ms M regarding the previous six years to the credit reference agencies and that it would 
continue to do so until the balance on the accounts had been cleared. It said that as Ms M 
was making her payments on time each month it wasnt reporting late payments. It said that 
the first payment on the debt management plan was in 2015. It said that it hadnt established 
any error on its part and so didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M didnt agree with AMEXs response and said 2015 wasnt when she entered a debt 
management plan for her AMEX accounts. She referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that there was an outstanding balance 
on Ms Ms account with AMEX and that AMEX wasnt doing anything wrong in the way it was 
reporting this. He said that AMEX had confirmed that late payment markers werent being 
recorded and no defaults had been recorded at this time. Instead the two accounts were 
being recorded as active as there was a balance owed on each. He noted that the credit 
reference agencies were updated each time Ms Ms DMP was reviewed. Overall he didnt 
think that AMEX had treated Ms M unfairly.
Ms M didnt agree with our investigators view.
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this complaint has been passed to me an ombudsman 
to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Ms Ms comments about how other creditors have recorded information on her credit 
file but this complaint is against AMEX and so it is the actions of AMEX that I have 
considered.
I can understand why Ms M is upset as she thinks adverse information is being unfairly 
recorded on her credit file by AMEX. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need 
to be satisfied that AMEX has done something wrong and the that the information it is 
recording with the credit reference agencies is incorrect or that it is treating Ms M unfairly.
Ms M has two accounts with AMEX, a charge card account and a credit card account. While 
Ms M entered a DMP a number of years ago, these account are still active as they have 
outstanding balances due. Therefore, I cannot say that AMEX is wrong to have the accounts 
recorded as active. 
Ms M has referred to information being provided for more than six years. When a customer 
has an account with a credit provider the credit provider is expected to provide information to 
the credit reference agencies that is accurate and to do so for the previous six years of 
activity. I have looked at Ms Ms credit report and can see that the AMEX entries include the 
previous six years worth of data. AMEX has explained it will continue to record the previous 
six years of data until the account balances have been cleared. This is in line with what I 
would expect to happen.
Ms M has said that late payments are being recorded on her charge card account. AMEX 
has said that Ms Ms accounts have been passed to a third party and that as Ms M is 
maintaining her payments late payments arent being recorded. It said that as Ms Ms charge 
card account was in arrears of four months when it was passed to the third party the debt 
age has been frozen at that point. This corresponds with the information that I have seen in 
the credit report Ms M has provided.
I note Ms Ms comments about a default not previously being applied to her account. I can 
see that Ms M was sent a notice of default for her charge card account in November 2014 
however she then transferred her account to a DMP. As this happened before the time a 
default would have been applied the default wasnt place on her account at that time. This 
would have been beneficial to Ms M at that time as a default wasnt recorded.
I appreciate that had ta default been recorded when Ms M entered the DMP it would now 
have been removed due to more than six years passing. However, I find it reasonable that 
AMEX didnt apply a default in 2014 as it was trying to work with Ms M and the proposals 
from the DMP. Ms M has then maintained her payments under the DMP and so I dont find it 
unreasonable that a default hasnt been applied while this situation was ongoing. I do not 
find that by not having a default applied to her credit file, Ms M has been disadvantaged. 
In this case, while I understand why Ms M is upset by the information being recorded I do not 
find that I can say AMEX has done anything wrong. Therefore, I do not uphold this 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman