DRN-4314073
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited (trading as My Community 
Bank) are holding her liable for a debt which she says was taken out by ID theft.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
In 2021, a £1,500 unsecured personal loan was taken out from Brent Shrine in Miss Ds 
name. A number of loans with other companies were also taken out in her name at around 
the same time. The money was paid into Miss Ds bank account, then transferred away.
Miss D has explained that she fell victim to a romance scam. She developed a relationship 
with a man she met online, who offered to teach her about cryptocurrency investing. He 
persuaded her to agree to a loan with a different company, and to give him access to her 
online banking, crypto account, and ClearScore account, promising large returns if he did the 
trading for her. He then took out further loans without her consent (such as this one), drained 
her savings, took all the money for himself, and cut contact.
Brent Shrine held Miss D liable for the loan. They said the application had passed their 
checks and shed been negligent.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Brent Shrine didnt agree, so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss D and Brent Shrine a provisional decision on 26 July 2023, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In that decision, I said:
It seems that Miss D has been scammed here. Miss D has provided screenshots showing 
that she gave the scammer access to her accounts, that he promised he was trading for her, 
and that he asked her not to check her online banking  giving the excuse that it was to 
avoid technical difficulties. Shes provided screenshots from her crypto account showing that 
it was drained, and her bank has provided statements showing that her savings were also 
drained. Miss Ds testimony has been credible, and fits with known methods of scams, as 
does her bank accounts activity. She reported the matter to the police, Action Fraud, and 
the relevant companies. And the other loan companies found shed been defrauded.
I appreciate this cant have been an easy time for Miss D, and I appreciate why she feels 
that she shouldnt have to repay this loan. Its worth keeping in mind that its the scammer 
whos primarily responsible for what happened. But I can only consider what Miss D and 
Brent Shrine did in this dispute between them, and I must be fair to both sides.
It doesnt seem unreasonable that Brent Shrine lent out this loan. It passed all the necessary 
checks, ultimately because Miss D gave the scammer everything he needed to pretend that 
he was her.
Its not clear whether Miss D applied for this loan herself. For example, I can see the 
scammers phone number was used, and the IP address used does not match up to her. But 
I find that Miss D was either aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that this loan 
was being taken out in her name and would need to be repaid. The loan was applied for 
using Miss Ds email, and the application was verified by clicking a link she was emailed. 
Miss D logged into her online banking and checked her account shortly after this loan was 
paid into it, and while the loan funds were being transferred out. Indeed, Miss D made a 
number of the bank transfers out herself. I can see this was her, as these transfers were 
made on her own mobile phone  not the scammers  at the same IP addresses she used 
for her genuine activity, having logged in using her biometric fingerprint.
I think its most likely that Miss D was persuaded to receive the loan funds and pay them on 
as part of a scam, as she was the first loan with the other company.
Further, I need to consider whether Miss D did enough to verify what was really going on 
and to reasonably mitigate her losses. Im afraid I think Miss D ought to have had more 
concerns along the way about what she was being asked to do. So that also means she 
should bear some responsibility for her losses.
While I understand that the scammer manipulated Miss D into believing they had a romantic 
connection, he was still an unverified individual who shed never met in person. He was not a 
qualified or regulated person such as an investment broker or advisor, he didnt provide any 
official documents or contract for Miss D to rely on, and Miss D had nothing which verified 
what he was telling her. I cant see that Miss D carried out any reasonable checks or due 
diligence. Essentially, she gave her financial details and full access to her accounts to an 
online stranger without having a reasonable basis to believe what he was telling her.
Further, I can see that Miss Ds own bank contacted her a number of times to discuss her 
account activity and the possibility she was being scammed. They even discussed scams 
like this one. But Miss D did not take heed of this and repeatedly assured them that 
everything was alright. 
So even if I were to find that this loan was taken out without Miss Ds knowledge or consent, 
I still could not fairly tell Brent Shrine to write off the loans principal in these circumstances. 
Im afraid that Miss D did not have a reasonable basis to believe what she was being told, 
and she ought reasonably to have realised that she was receiving and helping pass on the 
proceeds of a loan which would need to be paid back. And it wouldnt be fair to hold Brent 
Shrine responsible for the scammers actions or Miss Ds negligence, when they lent out the 
loan in good faith based on genuine details.
This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Miss D to 
receive. But given the evidence I have so far, and the circumstances of this case, Im unable 
to reasonably reach any other conclusion.Of course, I do accept that Miss D was scammed. And it seems that she did not benefit from 
this loan  the money ultimately went to a third party. I think it would be unfair for Miss D to 
have to pay interest and fees on a loan which she was scammed into forwarding on while in 
a vulnerable position, and which she didnt benefit from. It also would not be very appropriate 
for Brent Shrine to look to profit from fraud in this situation. Further, theres a good chance 
that Miss D did not actually apply for this loan herself  and Brent Shrine cant hold her to the 
terms of a loan agreement she didnt actually agree to. So I think the fairest thing is for Brent 
Shrine to waive the interest and fees in this case, to remove the account from Miss Ds credit 
file, and to work with Miss D to come to a repayment arrangement she can afford for the 
£1,500 principal sum.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
23 August 2023. Brent Shrine agreed with the provisional decision. Miss D explained that 
while she wasnt happy with the outcome, she had no further information to give.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
I understand that this decision will come as a disappoint to Miss D, though it is not my 
intention to disappoint her. But Ive explained above why Im unable to reasonably come to 
another conclusion. I hope that now the case has come to an end and Brent Shrine have 
agreed to do what I set out, it will help her to move forward from what must have been a very 
distressing time indeed.
Putting things right
I direct Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited to:
Remove any interest and fees from this loan;
Remove any record of this loan from Miss Ds credit file; and-
Work with Miss D to come to an affordable repayment arrangement for the loans 
£1,500 principal sum, outside the terms of the loan agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ds complaint in part, and direct Brent Shrine 
Credit Union Limited to do what I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Adam CharlesOmbudsman