DRN-4410919
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P complains that Co-op Funeral Plans Limited mis-sold Mrs P a pre-paid 
funeral plan, by not providing sufficient information. The estate is represented by Mrs Ps son 
and executor, Mr P.
What happened
In brief summary, in April 2010, Mrs P bought an insurance policy with a company Ill call S. 
She already had two longstanding policies with S, but added a funeral benefit option to this 
additional policy in the form of a legal charge. Upon her death, the value of the policy could 
be used towards a funeral with Co-op. And if it was, Co-op would make a £250 contribution 
towards the sum to be used against the cost of the funeral. 
In June 2013, S sent Mrs P a statement of cover, detailing her plans and their values. The 
statement reminded Mrs P that one of her plans included the funeral benefit option. And S 
provided information about average funeral costs in her area, to help Mrs P decide whether 
her existing cover still met her needs.
In July 2013, Mrs P bought a tailor-made pre-paid funeral plan for burial, at a Co-op 
Funeralcare branch.  
Sadly, Mrs P died in June 2023, so her son set about organising her funeral and sorting out 
her affairs. The pre-paid funeral plan was used to deliver the goods and services Mrs P had 
bought in 2013. 
But Mr P, on behalf of the estate, was unhappy that in not exercising the funeral benefit 
option on Mrs Ps plan with S, the estate would, effectively lose the additional £250 
contribution from Co-op. He complained, arguing that Co-op shouldve told Mrs P that using 
a pre-paid funeral plan would mean her estate wouldnt be able to use the insurance policy 
she already had. Mr P also complained about poor service and that S was being unfair 
regarding the payout on Mrs Ps policy.
Co-op didnt uphold the complaint about the 2013 sale, saying there was no evidence to 
suggest the plan had been mis-sold. It said the insurance and pre-paid products were 
extremely different and that Mrs P was provided with terms and conditions so wouldve been 
aware the insurance policy couldnt be used in conjunction with any other policy. Co-op did 
acknowledge poor service and apologised. It also referred Mr P to S to address his 
complaint about the payout on Mrs Ps policy.   
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Co-ops response, so came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded Mrs P would 
likely have bought the plan, even if shed been aware of the impact on her policy with S. 
Mr P disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
To clarify, the history of Mrs Ps policies is relevant to this complaint about her pre-paid 
funeral plan. But Mr Ps dissatisfaction with S is the subject of a separate complaint. And I 
can only look at poor service experienced by the plan holder, not the estates representative. 
So my decision deals only with the estates complaint about the sale of Mrs Ps pre-paid 
funeral plan in 2013.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr 
P and Im sorry about that. Ill explain my reasons.
Mrs Ps plan was sold before Co-op  and all other providers of pre-paid funeral plans - 
became subject to compulsory regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in July 
2022. Prior to FCA regulation, Co-op was a member of the predecessor voluntary regulation 
scheme, overseen by the Funeral Planning Authority (FPA). So Ive looked at the FPAs 
Code of Practice, to see how pre-paid funeral plan providers were expected to operate at the 
time of sale. 
Im satisfied the code placed a responsibility on Co-op to ensure its customers were 
provided with written details of any pre-paid funeral plan being offered and sufficient 
information to enable them to make informed choices. But theres no requirement to conduct 
any financial assessment and provide advice to customers. Indeed, these activities were 
regulated by the FCA at the time of sale, and Co-op wasnt regulated to provide those 
services. 
The sale took place face-to-face. Theres no record of any discussion and Co-op has said 
the branch no longer holds a copy of the application form. So its impossible to say what 
actually happened and whether or not Mrs P was aware of and understood the impact on her 
policy with S of buying a pre-paid funeral plan from Co-op. 
I can understand Mr Ps concern that this was information Co-op ought reasonably to have 
been aware of. But I dont think Co-op was under any voluntary regulatory obligation to raise 
this with Mrs P. The FPA code of practice relates to pre-paid funeral plans only, not other 
products, such as Mrs Ps policy with S. Still, Mr P says that in terms of duty of care, Co-op 
shouldve discussed this with her. So for completeness, Ive thought about whether that 
information wouldve made a difference to Mrs Ps decision, had she been aware of it.   
In June 2013, Mrs P received information from S about the value of her policies, including 
the policy with the funeral benefit option. This policy had a cash value of £535. Mrs P had 
two further policies with a combined cash value of £2360. Ive not seen any evidence about 
Mrs Ps intentions for these other policies. But even if all three were used by her estate to 
fund her funeral, the total amount towards the cost of that funeral, including the additional 
contribution from Co-op of £250, wouldve been £3145. The information from S explained 
that the average cost of a funeral in Mrs Ps area was £3137, with the cost of burial  the 
option Mrs P chose for her pre-paid plan - being £3506. As Mrs P bought her plan so soon after receiving this information from S, I think she most 
likely did review her arrangements. The pre-paid plan offered certainty that her funeral 
wishes would be met whenever the time of need arose, without additional expense to her 
estate. This assurance was not offered by her existing cover with S, where any shortfall 
against costs would have to have been met by the estate. And I note that Mrs P also bought 
a masonry plan with Co-op, which further suggests to me she wanted certainty that all her 
wishes and arrangements were in place and provided for. 
Overall, Im not satisfied there was a problem with the sale of Mrs Ps plan. I cant know 
whether Mrs P understood the implication for her policy with S of buying a pre-paid funeral 
plan with Co-op. But in any event, even if shed been aware this would mean the value of her 
policy with S couldnt be used towards her funeral, so thered be no additional £250 
contribution from Co-op, I think it likely Mrs P wouldve gone ahead with buying her pre-paid 
funeral plan anyway. 
So I dont think Co-op needs to take any further action in respect of this complaint. Once 
again, I know this isnt the outcome Mr P was hoping for. Im sorry to be the bearer of 
unwelcome news.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman