DRN-3051303
The complaint
The estate of Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt fairly compensated it for mis-sold 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) on two mortgage held by the late Mr S. The estate of 
Mr S also complains about the way Lloyds has handled the complaint and the financial 
administration of the matter, which it says has caused distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
While Ive read everything submitted by both parties to the complaint, Im not going to set out 
all of the events and circumstances leading up to this complaint in detail here - they are 
known by both parties and are not disputed. The dispute is about how things should be 
resolved. So briefly:
In September 2020 Lloyds rejected the estate of Mr S mortgage PPI mis-selling complaint 
for two policies sold in 2000 and 2002.
In February 2021, following the estate of Mrs S request that the matter be looked at again, 
Lloyds overturned its decision and upheld the complaint. In doing so it made an offer of 
settlement for the two policies.
The estate of Mr S complained that Lloyds had not calculated the compensation correctly 
and asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to investigate. The estate of Mr S also 
complained about the way Lloyds handled the complaint and the administration of the 
matter. For example the estate of Mr S said it spent many hours on the phone with Lloyds 
during the course of the investigation of the complaint going through the late Mr S financial 
details  information it had to repeat again when Lloyds asked for it again. And the estate of 
Mr S has highlighted other administrative errors and poor customer service from Lloyds, 
which it says has caused distress and inconvenience.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint. In summary they concluded that the PPI 
compensation had been calculated fairly and in line with what the Financial Ombudsman 
Service would expect. They also clarified that because Lloyds has offered to refund all of the 
PPI premiums paid, the issue of high commission and profit share doesnt affect the 
complaint. This is because any commission earned is included in the refund.
The adjudicator also said that Lloyds was willing to make an offer of £250 to compensate the 
representative of the estate of Mr S for the administrative errors and the distress and 
inconvenience caused, which in the circumstances they thought was fair.
The estate of Mr S disagrees. In summary it says:
the calculation of the PPI compensation should be deducted from the final amounts the 
estate settled on the mortgage;
it challenges the fairness of the level of compensation given the estate has been 
deprived of the monies for a considerable period;
Lloyds has caused a high degree of distress and it has not received a meaningful 
apology over the way it handled matters; and 
it repeated that Lloyds hasnt acted fairly towards the representatives of the estate of Mr 
S in the financial administration of the matter.
Because the matter couldnt be resolved informally it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided that Lloyds has calculated the mortgage PPI compensation 
fairly and that it should pay the estate of Mr S £250 as it has offered to do. My reasons are 
set out below.
But before I give my reasons, I think its necessary for me to set out two very important 
things.
Firstly, while I understand the representatives of the estate of Mr S disappointment and 
frustration with Lloyds in this matter, most of the complaint points raised are not within my 
power to deal with. I think the adjudicator touched on this, but I want to expand on why. The 
reason is because they do not relate to a financial regulated activity as set out within the 
Dispute Resolution Rules in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook - most are 
about Lloyds complaint handling and administrative and / or customer service issues 
connected to it. So it wouldnt be right for me  it would go beyond my powers - to engage 
with these points or express an opinion about what Lloyds has or hasnt done to address 
them.
Secondly I want to stress the importance of distinguishing between the estate of Mr S and 
the representatives of the estate dealing with the complaint. This is important here because 
the representatives have said much about the level of distress Lloyds actions has caused. 
But this is a complaint about the estate of Mr S. An estate cannot suffer pain or distress - 
albeit I think it can experience inconvenience or delay, which I will refer to later on  so I 
cant make an award for this. 
And I cannot make a distress and inconvenience or cost award to third parties. And this 
includes executors or representatives of an estate. I do not have the power to direct a 
business to make payments to third parties. So while I sympathise with the representatives 
of the estate of Mr S and acknowledge the impact they say dealing with this matter has had, 
I cannot make any award for their distress, pain, or inconvenience.
So even if I could consider all of the complaint points being raised, I couldnt make a 
personal award in any event. And for these reasons I also wont be commenting on the 
payment Lloyds has offered for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Turning to the matter I can consider and the amount and calculation of the PPI 
compensation - Ive reviewed Lloyds calculations for the two mortgage PPI policies in 
question. Having done so, Im satisfied the calculations are correct and the resulting amount 
of compensation is fair. The calculations are in line with our guidance refunding the total PPI (monthly) premiums 
paid for both policies with the addition of compensatory interest at the rate of 8% simple. 
Lloyds has also rightly allowed for a 20% standard rate income tax deduction from the 
interest element. I havent repeated all of the figures here  the adjudicator set them out in 
detail. And as I will set out later, the overall compensation figure will change in any event 
with the updating of the calculation. 
I can see the estate of Mr S has asked about the matter of high commission and profit share. 
But like the adjudicator explained, because Lloyds is refunding all of the PPI premiums paid, 
there is nothing more to consider  any commission element is already contained within the 
refund.
The estate has asked whether there is any impact of the PPI payments on the final 
settlement of the two mortgages. For example it has suggested that the amounts the late Mr 
S paid in PPI could have been paid toward the mortgages. 
Im not persuaded there is any impact on the settlement of the mortgages. I accept it is 
possible that had PPI not been paid for the extra money could have gone to paying the 
mortgage. But Im not persuaded it is more likely. While the policies were protecting the 
respective mortgage payments, they were separate to the mortgages and the agreements 
reached about the amounts borrowed and over what term. So Im satisfied in the 
circumstances that refunding the PPI premiums paid along with appropriate interest puts the 
estate of Mr S back in the position I think it would have been in had PPI not been mis-sold.
The estate of Mr S has challenged the fairness of the PPI compensation because the estate 
has been deprived of the monies for a considerable length of time. Ive thought about this 
carefully;  particularly as it speaks to the point I referred to earlier that an estate can be 
inconvenienced. I can see that there has been some administration issues regarding the 
payment of the redress  for example the estate of Mr S wants a direct payment to a 
nominated bank account. But Lloyds has said the account was dormant, which hampered 
things. It has also more recently asked for an assurance from the estate of Mr S and/or an 
ombudsman that it is in agreement to payment being made to a sole account.
It is clear that payment of the PPI redress has been delayed. And this doesnt appear to be 
because of something the estate of Mr S has or hasnt done. So I think the estate of Mr S 
has been inconvenienced by this to the extent that it has been deprived of the monies owed 
to it.
That said, Im mindful that I expect Lloyds to bring its offer up to date  it should recalculate 
the offer to ensure that the compensatory interest reflects the newly revised date of payment 
(it appears Lloyds has agreed to do this in any event.) And this is designed to compensate 
the estate of Mr S for the time it has been out of the money.
So taking everything into account, I think this will fairly compensate the estate of Mr S for the 
inconvenience caused by the delay in payment.
 
The estate of Mr S has previously indicated that it is in agreement for the redress to be paid 
to the bank account in question, which it says has the appropriate signing rights and 
authority. For this reason I expect Lloyds to comply with the estate of Mr S wishes unless 
there is a compelling reason why it isnt appropriate to do so.
In conclusion and to summarise my findings:
I cannot consider all of the matters raised in this complaint  only those which relatespecifically to the estate of Mr S and which are connected to a regulated activity;
I cannot make a distress and inconvenience or cost award to third parties, which 
includes executors or representative of an estate;
the PPI redress offer has been calculated correctly and represents fair compensation; 
and
when brought up to date, the offer also fairly compensates the estate of Mr S for the 
inconvenience caused to it by the delay in payment.
In closing, I understand that the representatives of the estate of Mr S will be disappointed 
with the limit to what I can consider in this complaint. But I hope my explanation explains 
why it is the case.
Putting things right
Lloyds should do the following:
Bring its offer of PPI compensation up to date and pay the estate of Mr S what it is owed. 
Payment should be made direct to the nominated bank account as requested by the 
estate of Mr S.
Pay the estate of Mr S the £250 it offered in recognition of the administrative error and 
distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided Lloyds Bank PLCs offer of compensation for 
mis-sold PPI has been calculated correctly and when brought up to date represents fair 
compensation to the estate of Mr S. Lloyds Bank PLC should make payment direct to the 
nominated account by the estate of Mr S.
Lloyds Bank PLC has offered to pay the estate of Mr S £250 and it should make payment to 
the same nominated account - if it hasnt already done so.
I make no other award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman