DRN-4313600
The complaint
Mr G has complained to Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited, trading as 
Sun Life Financial of Canada, about guarantees he said he was given by its adviser about 
the pension income he could expect when establishing his pension policy in 1998. 
What happened
Mr G met with an adviser representing Lincoln National (now Sun Life, and Ill refer to the 
business as Sun Life from hereon in) in June 1998 and established his personal pension 
plan to save for his retirement. 
As part of the sales process, Sun Life provided Mr G with projections for his retirement 
income based upon predicted growth rates for the fund value he might expect at age 55 and 
assumed annuity conversion rates which would be used to translate that pension fund into 
an income.
In December 2022, Mr G received an annual statement from Sun Life in which it set out that 
his predicted annual income in retirement would be more than £2,000 pa lower (£576 pa) 
than the lowest predicted amount (£2,600 pa) from the illustrations provided in 1998. But this 
was despite the fund value being higher than the lowest projected fund value in those 
illustrations.
Mr G complained, saying that he was unhappy with this, and that the adviser had told him at 
the point of sale that he could ignore the lowest projected returns as the higher rate was 
always achieved. Mr G added that the income offered didnt represent value for money as he 
would never see the value of his policy returned. 
Mr G further said that receiving the news about the lower income had been incredibly 
stressful as it meant that he would face significant hardship when he retired.
Sun Life declined to uphold the complaint, however, saying that the projections werent 
guaranteed and that there were several factors over the years which meant that financial 
market performance had been impacted, affecting the value of its customers pension plans.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr G referred his complaint to this service. It was assessed 
by one of our investigators who didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He said the 
following in summary:
The personal pension plan statement issued in December 2022, which showed a 
current fund value of £32,106 and a predicted value at age 55 of £38,700, meant that 
the plan was likely to outperform the lowest growth projection (£35,500) provided in 
1998.
Whilst he said he had no reason to doubt Mr Gs version of events in terms of what 
the representative had said to him in 1998 about the income he could expect, as 
there was no record of the face to face discussion, the available documentary 
evidence didnt support that position.
The documentation had, however, been clear that the illustrations werent 
guaranteed, and that the fund value and resulting income in retirement was 
dependent upon factors such as inflation, financial market conditions and interest 
rates. He was therefore satisfied that the illustrations hadnt promised anything in 
terms of the ultimate fund value or retirement income.
The growth rates used in the illustrations were a reasonable prediction based upon 
forecasts at the time and Sun Life couldnt reasonably be held accountable for any 
shortfall in market performance.
He understood why Mr G didnt think it made sense that the predicted income was 
over £2,000 less pa than predicted in 1998, despite the likely fund value being higher 
than the lowest prediction. But this was determined by annuity rates in place at the 
time of the quotation, and in the 1990s these had been much higher than they were 
at the time of the more recent personal plan statement. And this had been set out in 
the illustration.
The investigator noted Mr Gs surprise, as expressed in a phone call between them, 
that he needed to purchase an annuity with the fund value. But the investigator said 
that, whilst the pension plan had been designed with annuity purchase in mind, there 
may be other options available to Mr G if he felt that the quoted annuity didnt 
represent value for money.
In a further telephone call between Mr G and the investigator following his assessment, Mr G 
said that he still didnt understand why the projected annuity income was lower, despite the 
likely fund value being higher.
Mr G said that he felt that hed never been told that he needed to buy an annuity with the 
fund value and that he hadnt been informed of the open market option. The investigator 
explained that an annuity was only one of his likely options, and that the open market option 
is something which would have been brought to his attention as he neared his retirement 
age.
Mr G also said that he was dissatisfied with the reduced fund value hed been offered to 
transfer the pension elsewhere, to which the investigator said that this would need to be the 
subject of a separate complaint as and when that amount was offered.
And Mr G further said that he was very unhappy that Sun Life could rely upon one word in 
the illustration and tell him that he was entitled to less than had been projected in 1998. 
The investigator reiterated his view that the illustrations had been clear in that the figures 
werent guaranteed.
However, as agreement couldnt be reached on the outcome, the matters been referred to 
me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive firstly assessed the quality of the literature provided to Mr G in 1998 to 
determine whether this was sufficiently clear to reasonably make him aware that the growth 
rates and annuity conversion rates werent guaranteed. The literature needs to be considered in the context of the expectations which existed at that 
time, and the regulator in 1998 required that specific rates of projected growth be used  in 
this case 6%, 9% and 12%, but also that the illustration factor in the providers own charges.
It was also expected that providers use wording in the illustrations which made it clear that 
the upper, mid and lower projections were not maximum or minimum amounts, and that they 
werent guaranteed. They also needed to be accompanied by a key features document 
which set out the main attributes of the pension plan.
As to the former, Im satisfied that the wording contained in the illustrations set out clearly 
that the amounts werent guaranteed. For example, Ive noted the following comments:
This is an illustration only and is based upon the Companys normal terms and does not 
form part of the contract.
and
These figures are only examples and are not guaranteed  they are not minimum or 
maximum amounts. What you get back depends on how your investments grow.
and
Your pension income will depend on how your investments grow and interest rates at the 
time you retire.
You could get back more or less than this.
Then, regarding the key features document, I can see that this was referenced as 
accompanying the illustration, and so I think its more likely than not that this was provided.
As with the investigator, Ive also noted Mr Gs comments about what he was told by the 
representative at the time, but whilst I do take this into account, I think the wording around 
the lack of guarantees ought reasonably to have placed Mr G in a sufficiently well informed 
position that returns werent certain. 
But I also think its fair to say that growth expectations in the 1990s were more optimistic that 
they were from the early 2000s onwards, hence the higher growth percentages used for the 
low, mid and high projections. 
I do, however, acknowledge and understand Mr Gs confusion over the lower annuity 
amount which he was quoted in the more recent statement he received in December 2022. I 
agree that its difficult to reconcile the projection provided in 1998  that he could expect an 
income of £2,600 pa from a fund value of £35,500  with the projected income of £576 pa 
quoted in 2022 from a prospective fund value of £38,700.
On the face of it, I agree that this seems to make little sense. But there are several factors at 
play here, one of which is the annuity rates  the conversion rate of the pension fund into an 
annual income  which were used in the projections in 1998 and those which were assumed 
in 2022. Annuity rates were lower in 2022 than they were assumed they might be when the 
illustration was produced, at which point they were set out as being 7.34% for the lower 
projection, 9.15% for the mid band projection, and 11.03% for the higher band projection.
But I couldnt fairly or reasonably hold Sun life accountable for the generally accepted 
assumptions used in 1998 not being borne out by reality since, either in terms of the growth 
assumptions, or the annuity rates which might be in place when Mr G came to take his pension income.
I do think its also worth noting that the annuity quoted in 2022 of £576 pa assumed an 
escalating pension of 2.5% pa and a 50% spouses pension, along with a real terms 
spending power reduction of 2.5% pa in line with assumed inflation between then and 2024. 
This would render an annuity lower than if its taken on a level, single life basis, and without 
the spending power reduction of including inflation. The illustration from 1998 was silent on 
whether such factors were included, but this could account for some of the difference.    
I note that Mr G has also raised issues around not being told that he would need to take an 
annuity from his pension and that he was unaware of the open market option. As to the first 
point, in 1998 there was only the option of taking 25% tax free cash and then an annuity with 
the remainder of the pension fund. This didnt change until 2015 with the introduction of the 
pension freedoms. These meant that, in most situations, a policyholder could then take the 
pension fund as a lump sum if they chose, and werent bound by the need to convert it into 
an annuity.
Ive noted that Mr G has said that the £576 pa from the prospective fund value of £38,700 
represents poor value for money. And so, given the prospect of being able to transfer his 
pension to another provider which might offer the pension freedoms, even if Sun Life doesnt 
on this particular policy, then Mr G should have the flexibility he seeks of being able to draw 
the pension fund down however he wishes. 
As Mr G approaches his retirement date, Sun Life will need to provide him with a retirement 
pack which will set out his options, one of which will be to transfer to another provider.
Regarding the £8.33 exit charge, Sun Life has confirmed that when Mr G reaches 55, the 
earliest that he can access his pension benefits, there will be no exit charge on the plan.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman