DRN-3388743
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the service that she received from TSB Bank plc surrounding her
request for a payment holiday on her loan account, including that TSB ultimately defaulted
her account for non-payment.
What happened
In March 2020, the day before the scheduled payment was due on her TSB loan, Mrs K
applied for a one-month payment holiday on the loan account. Her application was accepted
that same day, but TSB applied the payment holiday to the April loan payment, rather than
the payment that was due the next day, meaning that Mrs Ks loan account fell into arrears.
In April 2020, TSB tried to contact Mrs K about the missed March loan payment without
success. Mrs K also attempted to telephone TSB during this period but was unable to get
through. Mrs K has also confirmed that she had thought she had applied and been approved
for a three-month payment holiday, rather than just a one-month payment-holiday.
In May 2020, the one-month payment holiday ended, and the May payment became due. A
week before the May payment was due, with Mrs K at that point only one month in arrears
on her account, TSB sent Mrs K a default notice advising that her account would be
defaulted if she didnt clear the arrears on the account before 8 June 2020  at which point, if
Mrs K hadnt made any payment, her account would have been two months in arrears.
Following this, Mrs K didnt make a payment to the account by the given date, and her
account then fell three months into arrears - totalling approximately £1,200 of arrears - when
the payment scheduled for end of June 2020 wasnt made. Mrs K did then make payments a
few days later totalling £600 to reduce the arrears on her account, but because Mrs K hadnt
cleared the arrears on her account in full as TSB had required, TSB then defaulted Mrs Ks
loan account for non-payment. Mrs K wasnt happy about this, and she wasnt happy that
she hadnt been granted the three-month payment holiday that she thought shed applied for,
so she raised a complaint.
TSB looked at Mrs Ks complaint, but they noted that theyd written to Mrs K on 24 March
2020 following her application for a one month payment holiday and that the letter had
confirmed that payment holiday would be for one month and would be for the April 2020
payment. TSB also felt that because of the arrears that had accrued on the account, they
hadnt acted unfairly by issuing the default notice to Mrs K in June 2020, and so they didnt
uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Mrs K wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. They felt that it had been evident that Mrs K
had applied for a one month payment plan rather than a three-month payment plan as she
believed, and so they felt that the arrears that had accrued on the loan account because of
the missed payments were reasonable. However, our adjudicator didnt feel that TSB had
acted fairly towards Mrs K by starting default proceedings against her at a time when her
account was only one month in arrears, and so they recommended that this complaint be
upheld in Mrs Ks favour on that limited basis.
TSB didnt agree with the recommendations put forwards by our adjudicator, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint o 4 March 2022 as follows:
Mrs K recollects that in March 2020 she spoke with a TSB agent and verbally 
requested a three-month payment holiday, which was agreed by the agent at that 
time. However, TSB dont have any record of Mrs K speaking with at that time, but 
instead do have a record of Mrs K applying for a one-month payment holiday online.
Its also notable that at the time that Mrs K applied for the payment holiday, the type 
of three-month payment holiday which she thought she had applied for wasnt yet 
available, and didnt become available (following temporary guidance issued by the 
Financial Conduct Authority) until a few weeks later, and so the only type of payment 
holiday that Mrs K could have applied for with TSB at the time that she did was for a 
one-month payment holiday.
Additionally, the letter that TSB sent to Mrs K following her application for the 
payment holiday confirmed that the length of the agreed payment holiday was for one 
month only, and so Im satisfied that the payment holiday that Mrs K applied for was 
a one month payment holiday and that she was notified by TSB of the length of that 
payment holiday and the date when the next payment would be required on the 
account.
However, its notable that Mrs K applied for a one-month payment holiday the day 
before her March 2020 payment was due, but that TSB, having approved the 
payment holiday, applied it the April 2020 payment and not to the March 2020 
payment which it seems obvious Mrs K was requesting the payment holiday for. This 
meant that even though Mrs K was taking action to try to avoid her account falling 
into arrears, because the payment holiday wasnt applied to the March payment, her 
account did fall into arrears the next day.
Furthermore, TSB sent a letter to Mrs K advising that her payment holiday request 
had been accepted and that it would be applied to the April 2020 payment, and not 
the March 2020 payment. But this letter wouldnt have been received by Mrs K until 
after the March 2020 payment date had passed and her account had already fallen 
into arrears. This doesnt feel fair to me, and I find it difficult to draw any conclusion 
other than TSB should have applied the one-month payment holiday to the 
impending March payment, and not to the later April payment.
TSB have explained that the reason that the payment holiday was applied to the April
payment was because Mrs K made the request the day before the March payment 
was due, meaning that there wasnt time to set the payment holiday for that March 
payment. However, Ive reviewed TSBs website in regard to how to apply for one-
month payment holidays, and theres no mention of any requirement for a customer 
to have to make an application a set number of days before a payment is due. And 
having accepted Mrs Ks request for a payment holiday, if it were the case that TSB 
were unable to prevent the scheduled direct debit request from completing, then I 
feel that TSB should have arranged to return the March 2020 direct debit payment if it was taken, so as to honour the payment holiday that they agreed for the month that 
it was requested and needed.
This point may seem relatively minor, given the wider circumstances of the complaint 
here. But if it had been the case that Mrs K had been granted a payment holiday for 
the March payment, and given that the type of three-month payment holiday that Mrs 
K thought she was applying for would have been available to Mrs K by the time the 
April 2020 payment became due, it seems reasonable that Mrs K would have been 
able to benefit from that longer three-month payment holiday such that her account 
wouldnt have fallen into arrears.
It must be remembered that the three-month payment holidays came into effect as a 
result of temporary guidance published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
which was designed to protect eligible consumers who were experiencing difficulty 
meeting the payments due on their credit or loan accounts because of financial 
difficulties brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA guidance also included 
that for these three-month payment holidays the reporting of these payment holidays 
to the credit reference agencies would be suspended, so that an eligible consumer 
who benefited from such a payment holiday didnt have their credit file impacted by 
doing so.
The FCA explained that the purpose of the guidance was to protect consumers who 
had been able to meet the repayments on their credit accounts until that time, but 
who were at risk of incurring adverse reporting for missed or late payments on their 
credit files solely as a result of the impact of Covid-19.
TSB have asked how Mrs K was financially impacted by Covid-19. But Mrs K had a 
cleaning business, and given the restrictions that were first announced by the 
government in response to the emerging Covid-19 pandemic on 20 March 2020  
which included the mass closure of shops and businesses so as to mitigate against 
close personal contact and potential viral transmission  it seems clear that Mrs Ks 
business would be affected, given that these restrictions would likely involve affected 
businesses no longer requiring cleaning services.
Mrs K has confirmed that many of her clients did cancel their cleaning contracts, and 
it seems reasonable that Mrs K might be concerned about her immediate future 
income at that time. Its also notable that Mrs K contacted TSB a few days after that 
first government announcement, before the payment on her loan account was due, 
and requested a payment holiday.
It also seems apparent that Mrs K was in precisely the kind of difficult situation that 
the FCA three-month payment holidays were intended to mitigate against. And I say 
this because Mrs K hadnt struggled to maintain her loan account up to that time and 
had been directly financially effected by the unprecedented circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19, which had led to a sudden and drastic reduction in the need 
for the services provided by her business and therefore a corresponding sudden and 
drastic reduction in her projected income.
However, it also appears that TSB did attempt to contact Mrs K both before and after 
the end of the one-month payment holiday that she was granted but without success. 
And the call logs that TSB have provided in this regard show that more than two 
dozen attempted calls were made to Mrs Ks number by their automated dialler 
system before the May 2020 loan payment due date, many of which were answered 
by Mrs K but where the call was quickly ended.Mrs K has explained that husband suffered a heart attack while the one-month 
payment holiday was in place, which understandably meant that she wasnt paying 
as much focus to the status of her payment arrangement with TSB as she would 
have been otherwise.
Mrs K has also stated that she attempted to contact TSB during this time but was 
unable to get through. But if Mrs K was attempting to speak with TSB at that time, its 
difficult to reconcile this with Mrs K not speaking with TSB on the multiple occasions 
that TSB called her. And its also notable that Mrs K didnt apply online for any further 
payment holidays during that period either.
However, even taking Mrs Ks not contacting TSB during this time into account, I do 
feel that when Mrs K did contact TSB on 3 June 2020, that her personal and financial 
circumstances should have been considered by TSB, and that TSB should have 
recognised that Mrs K was the type of consumer in the type of financial difficulty that 
the FCA prescribed three-month payment holidays had been intended to protect  
and then retrospectively applied a three-month FCA prescribed payment holiday to 
Mrs Ks account.
This potential course of action may have been more readily apparent to TSB had 
they applied the one-month payment holiday to Mrs Ks March payment, as I feel 
should have been the case, so that it was the April and May payments that were 
outstanding at that time.
TSB may also contend that because Mrs K was two months in arrears when she 
spoke with TSB in June, that she wouldnt have been eligible to receive the three-
month payment plan. But I feel that there are exceptional circumstances here in 
regard to Mrs Ks difficult personal position, including the heart attack suffered by her 
husband, that reasonably allow for a degree of leeway in this instance. And it 
remains my opinion that a fair outcome in this instance is that Mrs K should have 
been afforded the FCA prescribed three-month holiday financial assistance that 
those FCA payment holidays were intended to provide.
Finally, I find it very difficult to conclude anything other than that TSB were acting 
unfairly and unreasonably towards Mrs K by issuing a default notice to her at a time 
when the loan account was only considered as being one month in arrears, and 
which included a deadline for payment at a time when her account would only be 
considered as being a maximum of two months in arrears. And it seems to me that 
having issued this default notice in such unreasonably short order, TSB had 
committed themselves to a course of action that prevented them from considering 
and providing the financial assistance to Mrs K that was merited by her personal and 
financial circumstances at that time.
Ultimately, I do feel that Mrs K should have benefited from the protection provided by 
the FCA prescribed three-month payment holidays, and I feel that how TSB managed 
Mrs Ks initial application for a one-month payment holiday as well the unreasonably 
early notice of default that they issued to Mrs K contributed to TSB not effectively 
recognising this point and not taking the steps necessary to ensure that Mrs K wasnt 
adversely affected by Covid-19 in exactly the way that the three-month payment 
holidays were designed to avoid.
And, while I accept that Mrs K could have better communicated with TSB, I feel that 
her difficult personal circumstances at that time should be considered sympathetically 
such that reasonable adjustments should have been made, as described above.All of which means that dont feel that TSB have acted fairly towards Mrs K in how 
they managed this ongoing situation, and it follows from this that I will be upholding 
this complaint in Mrs Ks favour.
My provisional instructions to TSB are that they must amend their credit reporting to 
remove the default from Mrs Ks credit file and retrospectively apply the one-month 
payment plan to the March 2020 payment and then two consecutive three-month 
FCA prescribed payment holidays starting April 2020. TSB must also recalculate the 
balance of Mrs Ks loan account taking the above into account.
Finally, given the ongoing and preventable nature of what happened here, and given 
the trouble and upset that this matter has caused Mrs K at a time when she was 
already facing difficult personal and financial circumstances, TSB must also make a 
further payment of £300 to Mrs K by way of compensation. This further payment may 
not be applied by TSB as a credit to Mrs Ks loan account unless Mrs K gives her 
permission for them to do so.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs K and TSB the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Mrs K confirmed that she had nothing further that she wished to raise, whereas 
TSB did provide some points for my consideration.
TSB have confirmed that they feel that because of the arrears that were present on Mrs Ks 
account when she applied for the FCA prescribed three-month payment holiday that Mrs K 
wasnt eligible to receive such a three-month payment holiday, and that therefore her 
account was correctly defaulted by TSB for non-payment. Additionally, TSB note that there is 
nothing within the FCA guidance that allows for exceptional circumstances to be taken into 
account, and that Mrs K had a significant balance in her TSB savings account such that she 
could have reasonably made the payments and such that TSB dont feel that Mrs K was in 
financial difficulty at that time.
However, as previously explained in my provisional decision letter, the FCA prescribed 
three-month payment holidays were designed to protect consumers such as Mrs K who had 
been able to meet their credit commitments without significant incident until that time, so that 
such consumers didnt incur detrimental credit reporting, which would remain on their credit 
files for six years, as a result of the unprecedented and unique circumstances surrounding 
the Covid-19 pandemic.
As such, I dont feel that it was unreasonable for Mrs K to have wanted to retain a healthy 
savings balance during this period, given the considerable impact the pandemic had had on 
her business and the uncertainty surrounding potential future cashflows. That Mrs K didnt 
use all her savings at that time is evident in hindsight, but I dont feel that it was something 
that would have been reasonably predictable during the uncertainties of that time. And the 
fact remains that Mrs Ks income had been significantly impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic 
and that she was the type of consumer that the FCA guidance was designed to protect.
Furthermore, it seems difficult not to conclude that the fact that TSB recognised that Mrs K 
held these savings weakens the need for TSB to have issued a default notice to Mrs K at the 
unreasonably early time that they did, while her account was only one payment in arrears. 
This is because TSB were aware that Mrs K had a savings balance that could potentially 
have been used to clear the arrears on the account, such that there seems to have been no 
need for TSB to have rushed into the process of defaulting Mrs Ks account as they did.
However, this last point is somewhat moot, because it remains my position that TSB should 
have recognised that Mrs K was the type of consumer that the FCA guidance was designed to protect here, and consequently that they should have backdated a three-month payment 
holiday on Mrs Ks account, which would then have allowed Mrs K to benefit from a second 
three-month payment holiday as per the FCAs continuing guidance.
And while TSB state that there was no exceptional circumstances clause on the FCA 
guidance that would have allowed this, neither was there any clause preventing such 
reasonable action here, and the FCA guidance did make it clear as to the type of consumer 
it was designed to protect and the reasons that the guidance was being issued.
Ultimately, I feel that by issuing the default notice at the unreasonably early stage that TSB 
did, they locked themselves into a process which resulted in Mrs K incurring exactly the type 
of detrimental credit reporting that the FCA were concerned may occur and which they 
issued guidance to protect consumers such as Mrs K from.
TSB have provided further information such that I accept that when Mrs K first applied for the 
one month payment holiday the day before her March 2020 payment was due that TSB 
could only reasonably have applied that payment holiday to the April 2020 payment, but I 
dont feel that this acknowledgement detracts from my overall position here. 
I say this because while the backdating of a three-month payment holiday may have been a 
more apparent course of action to TSB if the March 2020 payment had been covered by the 
one month payment holiday, I still feel that the backdating of a three-month payment holiday, 
and if necessary also the one-month payment holiday  worked so that Mrs K didnt incur 
any arrears on her account from March 2020 onwards  should still have been a course of 
action that TSB should fairly and reasonably have taken here.  
All of which means I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Mrs Ks favour on the 
basis outlined in my provisional decision letter, and I can confirm that my final decision is 
that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
TSB must amend their credit reporting to remove the default from Mrs Ks credit file and 
retrospectively apply the one-month payment plan to the March 2020 payment and then two 
consecutive three-month FCA prescribed payment holidays starting April 2020. TSB must 
also recalculate the balance of Mrs Ks loan account taking the above into account.
TSB must also make a further payment of £300 to Mrs K to compensate here for the trouble 
and upset this ongoing matter has caused. This payment may not be applied by TSB as a 
credit to Mrs Ks loan account unless Mrs K gives her permission for them to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc on the basis explained 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman