DRN-1640237
Complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with 
a Money Card in 1997. 
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.  
Background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs D disagreed with this and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
I dont doubt Mrs D when she says she doesnt remember asking for this PPI on her card 
account, although the sale was some 23 years ago. And because of this, we no longer have 
access to any original documentation from either her or AXA France IARD.
Nevertheless, weve seen a few of these types of complaint and as a consequence, weve 
looked into the sales process to see what we think usually happened. From the 
computerised records we still have access to, it looks like Mrs D took her money card  a 
type of credit card  out in 1996 and operated it for a while with out any PPI.  By definition 
therefore, I think its safe to say she would have known getting her card account wasnt 
dependent on her having to also have PPI.
The PPI was added in 1997 by way of a phone marketing call. We no longer have access to 
the call, but from our experience, we think its more likely that consumers like Mrs D were 
required to consent to the PPI being added before it was loaded on to their account.
Mrs D understandably doesnt remember agreeing to this and I dont doubt her honesty. But 
we know she subsequently went on to be charged quite a bit for PPI, so I think the charges 
would have prominently started to show up on her accounts monthly statements. She would 
have been able to see therefore that PPI charges were starting to occur after the phone call 
and been able to ask what they were for, if she wasnt sure. So I think its more like her 
consent was obtained at the time.
This was a non-advised sale. This means AXA France IARD needed only to provide 
enough clear information for Mrs D to decide for herself whether she wanted the cover. I acknowledge AXA France IARD could have possibly set out the information about the PPI in 
a better way, but overall think its more likely there was a sales script which the call agent 
was told to follow so Mrs D had access to enough information to allow her to make an 
informed decision. 
Mrs D told us she had some sickness protection already with her job, implying she didnt 
need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the 
benefits Mrs D says she enjoyed. But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. 
Mrs D was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to 
see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was relatively expensive, but the 
benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most credit cards. For example, if shed 
become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve paid off 15% of her outstanding 
store card balance each month until she returned to work or until all the balance was 
returned to zero. These benefits wouldve been in addition to any other means Mrs D had in 
place at the time.
So Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 3 June 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman