DRN-1991842
The complaint
Miss M says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans that Lending Stream provided to Miss M 
between August 2018 and June 2019. The first three loans were repaid  but Miss M hasnt 
yet paid the other two loans so far as I am aware.
Heres a table setting out details of these loans: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid AmountHighest Monthly
Repayment
1 30/08/2018 19/10/2018 £500.00 £222.68
2 27/10/2018 14/06/2019 £600.00 £136.12
3 18/05/2019 24/05/2019 £200.00 £208.67
4 01/06/2019 outstanding £390.00 £265.74
5 15/06/2019 outstanding £310.00 £244.12
Loan 1 was to be repaid over 12 weeks, loan 2 over 9 monthly instalments and loans 3-5 
over 6 monthly instalments. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint and thought the loans werent unfairly lent. 
Miss M disagreed so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. 
Before lending to Miss M, Lending Stream asked Miss M for information on her financial 
situation, such as his monthly income and his outgoings, including other creditor 
repayments, and it carried out credit checks. 
Ive looked at each loan in turn and thought about whether it was fair for Lending Stream to 
lend to Miss M.
When Miss M took out her first loan, I think Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the 
information Miss M provided. This suggested that she was well able to afford this borrowing 
looking at what shed told Lending Stream about her monthly income and her expenses. 
When Miss M took out loan 2 and loan 3 her outgoings had increased slightly but his 
monthly income had also gone up a little. 
Looking at the information she provided to Lending Stream, and the information Lending 
Stream had gathered about her financial situation, it still looks to me like the monthly 
repayments Miss M had to make on loan 2 and loan 3 shouldve been easily affordable for 
her. 
I think when Miss M asked to borrow loan 4, Lending Stream shouldve been alerted to the 
possibility that it was no longer reasonable to base its lending decision on the information 
Miss M was providing. I think it would have been proportionate for Lending Stream to have 
taken steps to independently check the true state of Miss Ms finances when she asked for 
loan 4  and from that point going forward. 
However, I havent seen anything in the information available to me which shows Lending 
Stream would have decided not to agree this loan had it done proportionate checks. And the 
repayments on this loan still looked affordable for Miss M based on all the information she 
provided to Lending Stream and the other information it had gathered. So, I cant fairly say 
that Lending Stream was wrong to provide loan 4 to Miss M.
And Ive seen nothing, and havent been provided with any information, to suggest that 
further checks to verify what Miss M was saying wouldve shown that providing loans 4 and 5 
to her was unfair. Although she was still paying for loan 4 when she took out loan 5, and she 
hadnt repaid either of these loans, she hadnt given any indication at that stage that she 
would find it difficult to make the contractual monthly repayments. And on the face of things, 
the combined monthly repayments looked like they should be affordable. 
In order to uphold this complaint, I have to be able to safely say a lender did something 
wrong. And, in this case, I havent seen enough to be able to say that Lending Stream did 
anything wrong in deciding to lend to Miss M. 
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Miss M, but I hope my 
explanations help her understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
I take this opportunity to remind Lending Stream (or any third party if the debt has been sold 
on) that it should discuss payment options with Miss M and treat her fairly and 
sympathetically if Miss M needs further time to pay what she still owes. And if Miss M would 
like help to manage her finances theres more information about how to get free debt advice 
on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman