DRN-1510224
 
The complaint
Mr W has complained about AXA Insurance. He isnt happy that it turned down a claim 
under his travel insurance policy and about the service it provided.
What happened
Mr W made a claim under his travel insurance after he missed a flight due to a problem with 
his wifes travel documentation. But when he made a claim under his policy AXA turned it 
down as his policy didnt cover missed flights in these circumstances. So he complained to 
AXA and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that 
AXA hadnt done anything wrong as it had simply followed its policy terms and conditions in 
declining the claim. And he thought AXAs offer of £50 compensation for failing to return a 
call and being kept on hold when calling was fair. 
As Mr W didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, but Ill explain why.
I can understand how frustrating and disappointing Mr W has found all of this. He simply 
wants his claim paid after he had to miss his flight because of a problem in relation to his 
wifes travel documentation. And he incurred significant costs booking a new flight and 
accommodation expenses due to the problems with the documentation.
However, the travel insurance policy doesnt cover every possible eventuality and Im afraid 
it doesnt cover missed flights due to the problem Mr Ws wife faced. Mr Ws wife had a 
problem with a new passport and her visa which required clarification with the Embassy. And 
by the time things were resolved with the Embassy a new flight had to be booked. Although 
the insurance policy covers certain circumstances leading to a missed flight, it doesnt cover 
travel documentation problems. 
So, although I have sympathy for the position Mr W and his wife found themselves AXA 
hasnt done anything wrong here. The policy clearly outlines the circumstances that are 
covered when there is a missed departure, such as public transport difficulties, but it doesnt 
cover Mr W and his wife in these circumstances.
Finally, I know Mr W wasnt happy about the fact his call wasnt returned and that he faced 
delays when he advanced the claim. But I think AXAs offer of £50 compensation to cover 
the inconvenience caused seems fair in the circumstances.
My final decisionIt follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman