DRN-4019850
The complaint
Ms and Mr C are unhappy with the amount of interest charged by NRAM after the initial fixed 
rate period had expired. They believe the SVR should have moved in line with Bank of 
England base rate (BoEBR). They also consider the rate charged by NRAM was unfairly 
high in comparison to other lenders to generate excess profits to fund unrelated costs.
What happened
In 2007, Ms and Mr C took out a repayment mortgage with Northern Rock Plc (now trading 
as NRAM Limited) over 35 years. At the same time, Ms and Mr C took out an unsecured 
loan which was linked with the mortgage.
Northern Rock issued a mortgage offer which Ms and Mr C accepted. The offer confirmed 
that an initial rate of 7.79% would apply to the loan of £108,775 until October 2012, after 
which, a variable rate guaranteed to be below the standard variable rate (SVR) would apply 
 the Guaranteed Rate. The terms governing the unsecured loan remained the same.
During the 2008 financial crisis, Northern Rock was nationalised to avoid collapse of the 
bank. NRAM was later formed to manage most of the remaining Northern Rock mortgages, 
which included Ms and Mr Cs mortgage, where it remained until it and the unsecured loan 
were redeemed in April 2018. For ease, I shall refer to NRAM for the remainder of this 
decision.
Since Ms and Mr Cs mortgage was taken out, the BoEBR, SVR and the Guaranteed Rate 
have operated as follows:
Effective 
DateBoEBR SVR Difference 
between 
BoEBR and 
SVRRate charged on Ms 
and Mr Cs 
mortgage (the 
Guaranteed rate)Difference between 
BoEBR and the rate 
charged on Ms and 
Mr Cs mortgage
06/12/2007 5.5% 7.79% n/a
01/01/2008 7.69% 2.19% 7.79% n/a
07/02/2008 5.25% 7.79% n/a
01/03/2008 7.59% 2.34% 7.79% n/a
Effective 
DateBoEBR SVR Difference 
between 
BoEBR and 
SVRRate charged on Ms 
and Mr Cs mortgage 
(the Guaranteed 
rate)Difference 
between BoEBR 
and the  rate 
charged on Ms and 
Mr Cs mortgage
10/04/2008 5% 7.79% n/a
01/05/2008 7.49% 2.49% 7.79% n/a
08/10/2008 4.5% 7.79% n/a
01/11/2008 7.34% 2.84% 7.79% n/a
06/11/2008 3% 7.79% n/a
01/12/2008 5.84% 2.84% 7.79% n/a
04/12/2008 2% 7.79% n/a
01/01/2009 5.34% 3.34% 7.79% n/a
08/01/2009 1.5% 7.79% n/a
01/02/2009 5.09% 3.59% 7.79% n/a
05/02/2009 1% 7.79% n/a
01/03/2009 4.79% 3.79% 7.79% n/a
05/03/2009 0.5% 7.79% n/a
01/04/2009 4.79% 4.29% 7.79% n/a
01/08/2010 7.79% n/a
30/09/2012 Fixed rate ends
01/10/2012 4.78% 4.28%
04/08/2016 0.25%
01/10/2016 4.54% 4.29% 4.53% 4.28%
02/11/2017 0.5%
01/01/2018 4.79% 4.29% 4.78% 4.28%
Ms and Mr C complained to NRAM with the help of a professional representative (HJ). The 
Letter of Complaint in September 2021 raised the following issues (in summary):- Term 7.1 of the mortgage terms and conditions that allowed NRAM to reduce the 
interest payable by Ms and Mr C on the mortgage outside of any fixed rate period, is 
an unfair contract term, according to the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations (UTTCR) and guidance from the financial services regulator. It is not true 
to say that the term only operates in the consumers favour, because it can result in 
the margin between the BoEBR and SVR increasing. 
- NRAMs approach to setting the SVR had breached a number of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Principles and MCOB rules. In relation to changes to the 
interest rate, NRAM hadnt communicated clearly, properly managed a conflict of 
interest between itself and Ms and Mr C and ultimately hadnt treated them fairly.  
- Ms and Mr C had trusted that NRAM would vary the SVR in line with changes to the 
BoEBR.
- There was a Braganza duty implied in the mortgage contract meaning that NRAM 
had to exercise its contractual discretion in good faith and not arbitrarily or 
capriciously. NRAM hadnt evidenced this to be the case.
- In addition, there was a derived term from Paragon v Nash that the power to vary the 
interest rate needed to be exercised in a reasonable matter and this too hadnt been 
evidenced. According to an expert report (which Ill call Report A), NRAMs setting 
of rates may have been for an improper purpose, because it had funded unexpected 
costs, including paying consumer redress.
- Report A also showed that the rate charged on Ms and Mr Cs mortgage was unfairly 
high and this had increased profits in order for NRAM to meet unrelated costs and to 
meet its obligations with regards to the government assistance that it received.  
NRAM didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that:
- Under the relevant DISP rule (2.8.2R), any complaint about the interest charged 
more than six years prior would be time barred. 
- Under the same rule, the concerns raised that Ms and Mr C were led to believe the 
SVR would track movements in the BoEBR was also time barred, because they 
would have been aware in 2012 that this wasnt in fact the case. 
- UTCCR wasnt applicable to the interest variation term in question because it was a 
core term dealing with the price charged under the contract. 
- It hadnt breached any of the FCA Principles or MCOB rules.
- The mortgage offer had clearly set out that a fixed rate would apply for a period of 
time followed by a variable rate less than the SVR. There was no suggestion the 
SVR would track movements in the BoEBR.
-Braganza was not applicable.
- Condition 7.1 didnt need to be supplemented with any further implied terms per 
Paragon v Nash. In any case, all of the interest variations were made for genuine 
commercial / business reasons. - The expert report provided in support of the complaint contained fundamental 
misunderstandings of the legal and factual position. 
HJ on behalf of Ms and Mr C referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
NRAM provided us with its file papers, including its own expert report (which Ill call Report 
B). It said that information it had previously provided to this Service on a confidential basis 
explaining the factors that had affected its setting of the SVR over time, was also relevant to 
our assessment of the complaint.
One or our investigators reviewed the complaint and issued an assessment setting out their 
thoughts on both this Services jurisdiction to consider the complaint issues raised and the 
merits of the issues that they considered were within our remit. 
In terms of jurisdiction, the investigator said:
- They were satisfied we could consider a complaint about the interest charged since 
17 September 2015 (the interest having been charged within six years of the Letter of 
Complaint). 
- They didnt think Ms and Mr C had raised a complaint about the interest charged 
before that point within three years of becoming aware (or from when they ought 
reasonably to have been aware) of cause for complaint. This was because 
Ms and Mr C had said they had trusted the SVR would track movements in the 
BoEBR and that they would or ought to have been aware that the margin had 
changed when their fixed rate ended (in 2012). Ms and Mr C had complained more 
than three years later, which was outside of the relevant time limit. 
In terms of the merits of the complaint, the investigator said:
- They didnt think the mortgage offer or any of the other documentation provided to 
Ms and Mr C suggested that the SVR would track movements in the BoEBR. So they 
didnt think that NRAM had been obligated to have its SVR track the BoEBR. 
- Ms and Mr C had been charged a fixed rate of interest for a period of time and then a 
rate guaranteed to be below the SVR until the mortgage was redeemed. This was in 
line with the information contained in the mortgage offer.  
- The three interest rate variations (two reductions and one increase) that occurred 
after Ms and Mr Cs fixed rate ended were allowed for under the relevant interest 
variation terms contained in the mortgage General Conditions.
- They didnt think condition 7.1 was a core term and therefore exempt from an 
assessment of fairness for that reason. However, they couldnt see that a clause 
giving NRAM the widest possible discretion to reduce the rate payable could be 
considered to operate to the detriment of the consumer  and therefore couldnt be 
considered to be an unfair term.- They thought that a court may consider that some of the terms under condition 7.2 
allowing for increases in the rate charged could be considered unfair, due to their 
breadth and a lack of transparency around when the terms would apply. But they 
thought the central issue was whether there had been any unfairness to Ms and Mr C 
from September 2015 onwards. They thought this came down to whether the way the 
terms had been used (including prior to September 2015) had resulted in 
Ms and Mr C being treated unfairly.
- They didnt think NRAM had varied the rate unfairly. The variations to the SVR 
between January 2008 and April 2009 were only downwards, although the margin 
between the BoEBR and SVR increased during that time. However, NRAM had 
provided us with information explaining why it had varied the SVR as it had during 
this period, referencing increasing costs and the impact of the governments 
assistance. The investigator considered there had been genuine commercial reasons 
behind each of the rate changes during this time. After 2010, the only changes to the 
SVR occurred in line with changes to the BoEBR. As such, the margin remained the 
same.    
- They thought the interest rate applied to Ms and Mr Cs mortgage had remained 
generally in line with the SVRs of similar lenders across the market. As such, the rate 
Ms and Mr C paid wasnt an obvious outlier or manifestly excessive.
- In setting the SVR as it had, they didnt think that NRAM had breached Principle 8 
and thought that it had treated Ms and Mr C fairly, taking account of its financial 
situation and broader obligations.
- They thought that when NRAM communicated variations to the interest rate to 
Ms and Mr C, it had done so clearly. There had been no requirement for NRAM to 
give a reason why it was making a particular variation and if Ms and Mr C had 
wanted to know this, they could have asked.
- They didnt need to make a finding on whether implied terms from Braganza and 
Paragon vs Nash were relevant because, even if this was the case, they were 
satisfied that NRAMs decisions to vary the SVR as it did were reasonable and based 
on legitimate commercial judgments. 
NRAM responded to say that it welcomed the conclusion that Ms and Mr C hadnt been 
charged an unfairly high rate of interest. It also said that there were certain aspects of the 
view it didnt agree with, but that as we hadnt reached a concluded view on those issues nor 
were they determinative in the analysis of the complaint, it didnt see the need to make any 
further representations. It said it would like the opportunity to see and comment on any 
further representations made by HJ. 
HJ responded to say that it disagreed with the outcome and requested that the matter be 
considered by an Ombudsman. In summary, it said that:
- It disagreed with the finding in relation to jurisdiction. It said the fairness of all of the 
interest variations since inception should be considered, because Ms and Mr C had 
made their complaint within three years of becoming aware they had cause to 
complain. - The Ombudsman should direct NRAM to provide evidence in relation to why it varied 
the SVR as it did, since this was the basis of the complaint. The only evidence 
provided is retrospective analysis by an economist. Without evidence of why the SVR 
had been varied as it had, there could not be a fair and proper resolution to the 
complaint. If relevant material is not provided, the Ombudsman could draw an 
adverse inference from this.
- Ms and Mr C acknowledge that DISP 3.5.9(c) entitles the Ombudsman to accept 
evidence in confidence. However, this only extends to confidential evidence about 
third parties and security information (DISP 3.5.10). It does not entitle evidence to be 
accepted in confidence because it is commercially sensitive. To withhold such 
evidence would be acting outside of the Ombudsmans rules. If Ms and Mr C cant 
see such evidence, they are irreparably prejudiced, being unable to meaningfully 
respond to NRAMs response or the contents of the initial assessment. Ms and Mr C 
would be willing to enter into a confidentiality agreement to address NRAMs 
concerns if that assists. 
- Ms and Mr C are in broad agreement with the investigators statement that they 
trusted the SVR would be varied in line with changes to the BoEBR, because that is 
what they understood to be the only relevant factor concerning how funding impacted 
NRAM.
- Ms and Mr C agree with the investigator that the terms and conditions covering how 
and why the SVR is reduced is unfair. They also agree that the main issue to be 
determined is whether there is any unfairness in the way the SVR margin increased. 
- Report B doesnt contain any evidence to show cost of funding increased for NRAM 
during the GFC, or of the disconnect between wholesale funding and the BoEBR. 
That aside, the alleged increase in cost of funding and disconnect between it and 
BoEBR must become irrelevant after 2010 when NRAM had stopped lending to new 
customers and was reliant on the government for funding.  
- The conclusion in Report B that NRAMs SVR was comparable with the market is 
flawed, because NRAM was in a very different position to other lenders in terms of its 
funding, facing little to no risk and not offering new mortgages. 
- Even if NRAMs lending book was at higher risk of default, this would not have 
affected its cost of funds, because funding was not provided via wholesale markets 
following the government bailout.
- The suggestion that NRAM couldnt reduce its SVR so as not to distort the market 
cannot be correct, because it wasnt offering new mortgages. As such, irrespective of 
how it set its SVR, there would have been no distortion to competition in terms of 
rates offered by other lenders. 
- Neither Report B nor the investigators assessment address the issues of customer 
redress. The amounts are substantial in the context of NRAMs finances and it seems 
likely that this had an impact on when interest rates were varied by NRAM. Per what 
is set out in Report A, this would render the SVR charged to Ms and Mr C unfair, 
because it would mean that the SVR was maintained at a level to ensure profits 
could be used to discharge separate and distinct liabilities. This was not a cost of 
borrowing consideration. There are also question marks about why NRAM was 
making a profit at all, given the government backing and that it was effectively in run-
off.- When entering into  the mortgage contract, Ms and Mr C expected that they would 
have the opportunity after their initial rate expired, to switch onto a more favourable 
rate than the SVR, either with NRAM or another lender. After the Mortgage Market 
Review (MMR) changes came into force, it wouldve been more difficult for NRAM 
customers to effect such a rate switch. Such customers should be categorised as 
mortgage prisoners. 
- It disagreed that it wouldve been reasonably foreseeable that the linked Together 
Loan wouldve made it more difficult for Ms and Mr C to switch to an alternative 
lender, because this was not made clear to them. 
- Whilst it appreciated that Ms and Mr C hadnt tried to attempt to exit the mortgage 
arrangement, the fact it would have been difficult to do so should be considered. 
- It invited the Ombudsman to consider whether it would be beneficial to hold a hearing
A copy of HJs response to the investigators view was provided to NRAM and it gave some 
additional comments. In summary, it said that:
- What HJ had said about NRAM not providing information was incorrect.
- It could not see why a hearing would be necessary. 
- The position regarding jurisdiction is now well established and nothing HJ has said 
changed this. 
- It noted HJ hadnt instructed the author of Report A to rebut the findings of Report B. 
Nothing it had said about Report B was compelling and some things it had said 
suggested a misunderstanding. 
- The issues raised to do with Ms and Mr Cs inability to re-mortgage had not 
previously been raised. Regardless, NRAM hasnt made any error in relation to this. 
What Ive decided about jurisdiction  and why
Jurisdiction
First, it is necessary for me to consider this Services jurisdiction to consider this complaint. 
In its final response letter, NRAM said that it thought much of Ms and Mr Cs complaint had 
been brought too late. 
Im satisfied I have the jurisdiction to consider the complaint about interest charged from 
17 September 2015, because this interest was charged within six years of the Letter of 
Complaint. In terms of whether the interest charged before 17 September 2015 is within my 
jurisdiction, the relevant rule, is as follows:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; unless the 
complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman within 
that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the 
complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; or
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint 
where the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R. have expired.
The key question therefore is whether Ms and Mr C made their complaint within three years 
of when they were aware (or ought reasonably aware) they had cause for complaint.
HJ disagreed with the investigators finding on this point, saying that the complaint was 
brought within three years of when Ms and Mr C became aware of cause for complaint. In 
its response to the investigators assessment, it said that Ms and Mr C had absolutely no 
way of knowing that the variation of interest rate charges were potentially unfair or might 
somehow give them cause for complaint. HJ said that the fact the interest rate diverged 
from movements in the BoEBR was not unusual and appears to be consistent with what 
other lenders were doing at the relevant time and therefore did not give Ms and Mr C cause 
to think they might have a complaint. 
They said that Ms and Mr C became aware of the possibility of a complaint when they 
instructed HJ, after they were alerted to there being a potential issue with the variation of 
interest rates.
I dont think Ms and Mr C did bring their complaint within three years of when they ought 
reasonably to have been aware they had cause for complaint. I say this because in the 
Letter of Complaint, HJ said that on the basis of the indication of NRAMs then current SVR 
and Ms and Mr Cs knowledge of base rates generally, Ms and Mr C trusted that the SVR 
would be varied in approximate correspondence with changes in the BoEBR. In response 
to the investigators assessment, HJ reiterated that Ms and Mr C had expected there to be 
a correlation between the SVR and BoEBR, because they had understood that the only 
relevant factor concerning how funding impacted NRAM, was the BoEBR. 
When Ms and Mr C agreed to the mortgage initially in 2007, the SVR was 2.19%
higher than base rate. When the fixed rate came to an end NRAMs SVR was 4.79%, with 
Ms and Mr C being charged 4.78%. At this point, the margin between BoEBR and NRAMs 
SVR had increased to 4.29% - nearly double the margin when the mortgage began. 
Given that when making their complaint Ms and Mr C have said they expected the SVR to 
be varied in approximate correspondence with changes in the BoEBR (including by 
reference to their knowledge of base rates generally), I think this means they ought 
reasonably to have been aware at the point their fixed rate came to an end, that the margin 
between the rate they were being charged (which was closely linked to the SVR) and the 
BoEBR was significantly higher than when they first took the mortgage out. And I think this 
means they ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for complaint at that point. Ms and Mr C didnt raise a complaint about this until much later  more than three years 
from that point. As a result, Im satisfied the complaint about the interest rates charged 
before September 2015 has been made out of time. And for the same reasons, Im 
satisfied any complaint about how the information provided to Ms C and Mr C at outset was 
misleading (in respect of how the mortgage would operate in terms of the movement of the 
SVR) would also be out of time.
Ive not been provided with any information to suggest that the reason part of 
Ms C and Mr Cs complaint was not brought in time was a result of exceptional 
circumstances.
As a result, Im satisfied that our service only has the power to consider Ms C and Mr Cs 
complaint about the interest theyve been charged on the mortgage since 
17 September 2015.
Having concluded what I have about jurisdiction, in considering the fairness of interest 
charged from 17 September 2015 onwards, I need to have regard to the whole history of 
the interest rate, including before 17 September 2015. 
That is because each time NRAM made a decision to change the SVR, the SVR remained 
at that revised level until it made a further decision to change it  from the starting point of 
the level resulting from the previous variation. 
As such, the SVR charged from September 2015 is the sum of the parts of the history that 
went before. And if there were problems with any of those parts  for example, because the 
SVR was varied for a reason not allowed by the contract - that might mean that the SVR 
charged from September 2015 is itself unfair.
What Ive decided about the merits of the complaint  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I am required by 
DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
Having done all of that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be
disappointing for Ms and Mr C, But I hope my explanation will help them to understand why 
I have come to this conclusion.Before I set this out, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable 
given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for 
reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue 
to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this 
complaint, when doing that.
In its response to the investigators assessment, HJ said that I should consider whether it 
would be beneficial to hold a hearing. It didnt give a reason why and it hasnt made a 
request as defined in the DISP rules. Regardless, I do not consider it necessary to hold a 
hearing in order to be able to fairly determine this complaint. 
HJ has raised many individual complaint points both to NRAM directly and to this Service. 
However, I consider that Ms and Mr Cs overall complaint breaks down into fundamentally 
three key things:
1. Ms and Mr C trusted that their mortgage interest rate would track or at least 
move broadly in line with movements in the BoEBR once it reverted to the 
variable rate. As it did not do so, NRAM has treated them unfairly.
2. The term allowing NRAM to reduce the SVR is unfair and there were implied 
terms in the contract that NRAM didnt adhere to. Alongside this, NRAM has not 
properly managed a conflict of interest between itself and its customers, 
resulting in its SVR being set at an unfairly high level for improper purposes, 
resulting in Ms and Mr C paying a higher rate of interest on their mortgage than 
they should have. 
3. NRAMs communications in respect of interest rate variations were unclear and 
misleading. 
I will deal with each point in turn.
Did NRAMs actions cause Ms and Mr C to trust that their mortgage would track or closely 
follow the BoEBR?
I consider that the mortgage documentation is clear in that Ms and Mr Cs mortgage would 
revert to a rate guaranteed to be below the SVR once their fixed interest period expired 
and that the SVR could go up as well as down. And I havent seen any evidence that 
persuades me that NRAM was obligated, contractually or otherwise, to have its SVR track 
or closely follow the BoEBR.
Im also not aware of any evidence that can be properly said to show that NRAM acted in a 
way where it committed to keep the margin between the BoEBR and its SVR the same. 
Finally, I am not aware of any principle of law, that on the facts of this case, would 
obviously commit NRAM to doing so.
So, it follows that I do not uphold this part of Ms and Mr Cs complaint.Fairness of interest charged: the interest rate variation terms
I have to consider whether from 17 September 2015 onwards Ms and Mr C paid an unfairly 
high rate of interest. While I acknowledge that Ms and Mr C paid a rate guaranteed to be 
below the SVR set by NRAM and that there is no evidence (and no complaint) that NRAM 
made any calculation errors in charging interest, I also think that there are other questions 
that are potentially relevant to whether the interest itself was fairly charged. 
One of those questions is whether the terms allowing NRAM to vary the SVR are the sort of 
terms the courts would consider to be unfair as a matter of law. The law on unfair terms is 
an important part of consumer protection measures and prevents businesses from taking 
advantage  whether consciously or otherwise  of their customers, who have limited 
bargaining power. If a variation made in reliance on an unfair term contributed to the rate 
charged from 17 September 2015 onwards, then that might be relevant to whether interest 
charged from that point was fair.
To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to first set out the relevant 
terms themselves:
This secured mortgage is based on the following interest rate periods: 
 a fixed rate of 7.79% until 1 October 2012
followed by
 a variable rate which is guaranteed to be below Northern Rock Standard Variable
Rate, which is currently 7.84%, for the remainder of the term of the mortgage.
Please note that the payments illustrated for this period of the mortgage in Section 6 of this
document are based on Northern Rock's current Standard Variable Rate.
In section 6 (What you will need to pay each month), it says:
This Offer of Loan assumes that the mortgage will start on 1 March 2008. (The assumed
start date and payments are for illustration purposes; your actual payments and start date,
will be confirmed to you in writing, when your loan commences).
 1 initial payment at a fixed rate of 7.79%: £717.71 (monthly payment)
followed by
 54 payments at a fixed rate of 7.79%: £753.73 (monthly payment)
followed by
 366 payments at the Northern Rock standard variable rate, currently 7.84%: 
£757.32 (monthly payment).
The correspondence accompanying the mortgage offer sent to Ms and Mr C in December 
2007 said that a number of other documents were enclosed, including the Mortgage Offer 
 General Conditions.
Within the Mortgage Offer  General Conditions:
7.1
We may reduce the Standard Variable Rate at any time.
7.2
We may increase the Standard Variable Rate at any time if one or more of the 
following reasons applies:(a) there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a 
general trend to increase interest rates on mortgages or mortgage similar to yours;
(b) for good commercial reasons, we need to fund an increase in the interest rates 
we pay to our own funders.
(c) we wish to adjust our interest rate structure to maintain a prudent level of
profitability;
(d) there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a 
general increase in the risk of shortfalls on the accounts of mortgage borrowers 
(whether generally or our mortgage borrowers only), or mortgage borrowers 
(whether generally or our mortgage borrowers only), whose accounts are similar to 
yours;
(e) our administrative costs have increased or are likely to do so in the near future.
7.3 We will tell you of any change in the Standard Variable Rate and the Interest
Rate in one of the following ways:
(a) by posting or delivering the notice to you in accordance with condition 24; or
(b) by publicising the change as follows:
(i) by displaying a notice of the change at our registered office and all our
branch offices (if any); and or
(ii) by advertising the notice in two or more national daily newspapers 
chosen by our board of directors (which will keep a list of the newspapers 
currently chosen by it for this purpose).
If a Loan is a capped rate loan or a fixed rate loan (the Conditions will indicate if a 
Loan is a capped rate loan or a fixed rate loan, and if so what any capped rate 
period and fixed rate period is) we are not obligated to give you notice of any 
changes that occur in the Standard Variable Rate during any period when such 
changes do not affect the rate you are charged during that period, for example 
when the Standard Variable Rate is higher than the capped rate or during any fixed 
rate period.
7.4 Any notice we give under condition 7.3 will state the date on which the new rate
is to come into effect, which we call the Interest Change Date. The Interest 
Change Date must not be earlier than the date when the notice under condition 7.3 
is given.
For this purpose:
(a) a notice displayed under condition 7.3(b)(i) is to be treated as given on the date
on which we display it at our registered branch offices (if any) (ignoring any 
accidental failure to display it at a branch office); and
(b) a notice advertised under 7.3(b)(ii) is to be treated as given on the first date by 
which the notice has appeared in each of the newspapers chosen by our board of
directors.NRAM has told us it relied on Condition 7.1 for all reductions to the SVR. In 2018, the
SVR did increase following increases to base rate. NRAM has said it relied on Conditions
7.2 (a), (b) & (c) to make this change. It has also said it wrote to Ms and Mr C each time it
varied their interest rate as per Condition 7.3.
One of the considerations that I am required to take into account is relevant law. I consider
that the application of the UTCCRs to the relevant terms in this case falls into that category
of relevant law. I have therefore considered whether I think that a court could have a
reasonable basis to conclude that the relevant terms may be unfair.
The relevant test as to whether a term is unfair is set out at Regulation 5(1), as follows:
A contractual term which has not been individually negotiated shall be regarded as
unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant imbalance 
in the parties rights and obligations arising under the contract, to the detriment of 
the consumer.
Regulation 6 says:
(1)the unfairness of the contractual term shall be assessed, taking into account
the nature of the goods and services for which the contract was concluded 
and by referring, at the time of conclusion of the contract, to all the 
circumstances attending the conclusion of the contract on which it is 
dependent.
(2) In so far as it is in plain and intelligible language, the assessment of fairness of 
a term shall not relate:
(a) to the definition of the main subject matter of the contract, or
(b) to the adequacy of the price or remuneration, as against the 
goods or services supplied in exchange.
So, it is important to note, that I must consider whether the variation terms were unfair 
based on the situation when Ms and Mr C took the mortgage out. And whether the terms in 
question go to the main subject matter of the contract or the adequacy of the 
price/remuneration.
Schedule 2 to the UTCCRs sets out a grey list of indicatively unfair terms and various 
factors relevant to assessing the fairness of a term. The grey list includes:
1. Terms which have the object and effect of 
(j) enabling the seller or supplier to alter the terms of the contract unilaterally without
a valid reason which is specified in the contract
The grey list of indicatively unfair terms is subject to the qualifications to be found in
paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 of the UTCCRs. For example, paragraph 2(b) of Schedule
2 of the UTCCRs identifies that the indication of unfairness under paragraph 1(j) is
without hindrance to terms under which a supplier of financial services reserves the
right to:
change a rate of interest payable without notice where there is a valid reason 
(provided the supplier informs the consumer at the earliest opportunity and the 
consumer is free to dissolve the contract immediately);alter unilaterally the conditions of a contract of indeterminate duration (provided that 
he is required to inform the consumer with reasonable notice and that the 
consumer is free to dissolve the contract).
As a strict matter of law, if the relevant clauses in this case are unfair under the UTCCRs,
they would not be binding on Ms and Mr C (Regulation 8 UTCCR). 
In considering these matters, it is relevant to note that the Court of Justice of the European
Union (CJEU), having identified that ultimately the fairness of a term was a matter for the
national court to decide, has indicated what national courts should take into account when
making that decision:
in Invitel, (C-472/10), the court concluded that a price variation clause in a contract 
is not a core term. Identifying that a price variation clause was instead a term 
relating to a mechanism for amending the prices of the services provided to the 
consumer.
in RWE, (C/92/11), the court emphasised that, for unilateral price variation clauses 
(falling within paragraphs 1(j) or 1(l)) to be fair, they must specify the reasons and 
methodology for the price variation so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis 
of clear, intelligible criteria, the alterations that may be made to those charges. In 
addition, the CJEU was concerned that the customer is provided with meaningful 
criteria by which they can verify, and if necessary, challenge, any proposed 
variation to the rate. The CJEU also placed importance on whether the right to exit 
a contract in the event of a unilateral price variation can practically be exercised by 
the consumer at the time, having regard to the circumstances of the market as it 
exists at the time.
In Kasler, (C-26/13), the CJEU identified that, when assessing the fairness of a 
unilateral variation clause  and the meaning of plain intelligible language, national 
courts ought to consider whether: a) the mechanism expressed in the reasons for 
the variation is transparent; such that b) it would enable a consumer to foresee and 
predict the economic consequences for him or her.
In Matei (C-143/13) the CJEU referred to the loan agreement needing to set out 
transparently the reasons for and the particularities of the mechanism for altering 
the interest rate and the relationship between that mechanism and the other terms 
relating to the lenders renumeration, so that the consumer can foresee, on the 
basis of clear, intelligible criteria, the economic consequences for him which derive 
from it.
The leading UK judgement on the UTCCR is the 2015 Supreme Court case ParkingEye v
Beavis [2015] UKSC 67. In this case the Court said that:
The test for establishing a significant imbalance (Regulation 5(1)) includes, but is 
not limited to, asking whether the terms of agreement deprive the consumer of an 
advantage which they would enjoy under national law in the absence of the 
contractual provision;The question of whether a term is contrary to the requirements of good faith 
depends on an objective hypothetical negotiation, asking whether an informed 
consumer would have agreed to the term in question during individual contract 
negotiations. This should take into account a wider circumstantial review, such as 
the relationship with other relevant contractual terms; and
Consideration should be given to the nature of the goods or services supplied, 
including the significance, purpose and effect of the term in question.
FCA guidance (FG18/07) on unfair terms in consumer contracts is also of relevance. This
paper sets out that The fairness assessment is a holistic assessment and these two
elements may overlap in the way they apply to any particular set of facts and that the
applicable law recognises the importance of striking a fair balance between the legitimate
interests of both the supplier and consumer. The guidance also provides an overview of
factors relevant to determining whether a variation term is fair. At paragraphs 66 and 67 
the guidance states that firms should consider the consumers freedom to exit the contract 
if they do not accept the variation, and how they can actually do so. This should include 
the financial and practical barriers which may prevent them from doing so within any 
advance notice or reasonable timeframe.
Application to Ms and Mr Cs complaint
Having considered the above, I am satisfied I need to address the following in deciding 
whether the variation clause was unfair:
Whether the term is a core term
Whether the term created a significant imbalance in the parties rights and 
obligations to the consumers detriment contrary to the requirements of good faith.
The decision whether the term is unfair should be made in the light of what sort of contract 
is in issue and what the contract is about, as well as what the other terms say and all the 
circumstances that existed when the term was agreed. Assessing whether a term is unfair
involves winding the clock back to the date the term was agreed, and then standing back 
to consider the term in its full context, both within the contract and in all the surrounding
circumstances.
- Is the relevant term a core term?
The terms in question relate to the mechanism for amending the price of the services 
provided, not the price itself. So, I am satisfied they are ancillary terms whose fairness can
be assessed under the applicable fair terms legislation.
- Do the terms create a significant imbalance contrary to the requirements of good 
faith?
As set out above, one of the considerations when determining if the terms create a
significant imbalance is whether the terms of the agreement deprive the consumer of an
advantage which they would enjoy under national law if the term was not there.I am not persuaded that the interest rate variation clause applicable to Ms and Mr Cs 
mortgage contract does this. At a general level, such clauses have a legitimate purpose 
and are common in financial services consumer contracts. Particularly those of long or 
indeterminate duration, such as mortgage agreements. A fair variation term can benefit 
both consumers and lenders. Providing flexibility and a wider choice to consumers and 
enabling firms to provide competitively priced products, knowing they can vary the interest 
rates they charge to reflect changes in circumstances, particularly in their own costs of 
funding.1
A reversion rate also permits lenders to provide for future changes that justify increases in
the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds and things such as changing regulatory
requirements are by nature difficult to foresee. So, Im satisfied that, if the agreement itself
didnt include a rate variation clause, its reasonable to assume that national law would
provide a mechanism for allowing a lender to vary the rate for legitimate reasons. And I 
think the average consumer could reasonably be assumed to accept this and agree to it in
hypothetical negotiations.
In addition, when considering whether there was a significant barrier to exit, it is important 
to note that there was no Early Repayment Charge (ERC) applicable to Ms and Mr Cs 
mortgage at the point it reverted to the SVR in October 2012. So, if NRAM had exercised 
its rights as set by the variation term, and Ms and Mr C were unhappy with that decision, 
they were free under the contract to transfer their mortgage to another lender should they 
have wished without having to pay this charge.
Ive also considered whether the terms in Ms and Mr Cs agreement go further than 
reasonably necessary to protect NRAMs legitimate interests and whether the variation 
clauses are sufficiently transparent. Having done so, I accept that there is a possibility that 
a court might conclude that parts of the clause are overly broad and that it could be more 
transparent. 
HJ has focused its argument about unfair terms on 7.1  the term allowing NRAM to reduce 
the interest rate. This is the broadest part of the interest variation terms, as this doesnt 
require NRAM to rely on any particular circumstances to make the change. I cant see that 
a term which gives the lender the unfettered ability to reduce the rate payable, could be 
considered to create a significant imbalance between the lender and consumer to the 
detriment of the consumer, contrary to the requirements of good faith. 
The lack of restrictions on reducing the interest rate increases the situations in which the 
interest rate might fall, and so is in the consumers favour. But I consider that the way in 
which the term is exercised could potentially lead to unfairness in individual cases.
Before moving on, I note that in response to the investigators assessment, HJ said Our 
client agrees with the (investigators assessment) that the terms and conditions covering 
how and why the SVR is reduced are unfair This is incorrect, the investigator said they 
thought the terms allowing for increases may be considered unfair by a court. 
1 FCA Guidance (FG18/07 Paragraph 34)In considering Condition 7.2, I too think its possible a court may find the following clauses 
are not sufficiently transparent such that an informed consumer would have agreed to them 
in individual negotiations:
B. for good commercial reasons, we need to fund an increase in the interest rates we pay 
to our own funders
C. we wish to adjust our interest rate structure to maintain a prudent level of profitability
I am not persuaded a consumer would necessarily be able to understand the basis and the
mechanics for any decisions taken that relied on these terms or to be able to understand 
the economic consequences of entering into the agreement and, if necessary, to challenge 
a variation made in reliance on them. I consider these terms potentially to be wider than 
are reasonably necessary to achieve a legitimate purpose and they do not explain to the
consumer the method for determining the new price  good commercial reasons and a
prudent level of profitability are vague terms.
While I do think that a term enabling NRAM to increase the SVR proportionately to reflect
increases in its cost of funds in specific circumstances would be fair, I think Condition 7.2 
(b) and (c) go beyond what national law would likely imply. I think its possible a court could 
find that  without further qualification - they cause a significant imbalance between the 
parties and I think its unlikely a hypothetical consumer would have agreed to a term that 
enabled the lender to increase the SVR payable on their mortgage for such vague reasons.
Having reached this conclusion, I also need to consider whether  at the time the contract
was taken out  there were likely to be such significant barriers to Ms and Mr C dissolving
the contract that they could not effectively make use of the right to do so. If there were such 
barriers, that may mean that the variation terms are unfair.
In assessing whether the term itself is unfair  the test is not whether there were significant
practical barriers for Ms and Mr C at the point at which their interest rate was varied, but
rather whether it was foreseeable at the time the contract was entered into that there may
have been such barriers.
As set out above, there was no ERC applicable to Ms and Mr Cs mortgage at the point 
they reverted to the Guaranteed Rate on 1 October 2012. So if NRAM had exercised its 
rights as set by the variation term, and Ms and Mr C were unhappy with that decision, they 
were free under the contract to transfer their mortgage to another lender should they have 
wished without having to pay this charge.
Having said that, if Ms and Mr C had wanted to transfer to another lender, they may have 
faced certain costs, including a discharge fee and other associated switching costs. 
However, the discharge fee wouldve always been due when the mortgage was redeemed, 
whether that was before the end of the intended term or not and is set out clearly in the 
mortgage offer. And with regards to switching costs, I am not persuaded these are the sort 
of significant barriers that the CJEU and FCA had in mind when determining whether a
variation clause is unfair. Ms and Mr C would incur these costs if ever they sought to switch 
lender.However, while I do not think the mortgage discharge fee or other associated switching 
costs presented a practical and significant barrier to Ms and Mr C dissolving the contract 
should they have wanted to, I do think it was reasonably foreseeable that Ms and Mr C 
may struggle to refinance both their mortgage and unsecured loan. I know HJ has said that 
this wouldnt have been reasonably foreseeable to Ms and Mr C, because they werent 
given clear enough information about this. But, the point is that given the special conditions 
attached to the unsecured loan, I think this was a real and practical barrier to Ms and Mr C 
dissolving their mortgage contract with NRAM.
With this in mind, alongside my finding that the terms do not necessarily satisfy the
requirement for transparency, I think these terms had the potential to lead to unfairness,
because if NRAM increased the SVR for an unclear reason, Ms and Mr C may not
realistically be able to dissolve the contract and move elsewhere. So, I think a court may
have a proper basis to conclude that elements of the variation terms were unfair.
However, our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. That includes, but is not limited to, relevant law. So, while Ive taken 
account of the relevant law regarding unfair contract terms, Ive also thought more broadly 
about whether, and the extent to which, the way in which the terms have been used has 
resulted in unfair treatment for Ms and Mr C. I think that is the ultimate question I need to 
answer in deciding whether to uphold this case.
Has NRAM exercised the terms fairly?
In answering this question, I am doing so in the context that this complaint only concerns 
the fairness of interest charged to Ms and Mr Cs mortgage since 17 September 2015. All 
interest charging events before that are out of time because Ms and Mr C did not refer their 
complaint in time.
However, as set out earlier, in order to consider the fairness of the interest Ms and Mr C 
were charged during the period that is in time, its necessary for me to consider historic 
changes to NRAMs SVR, since the SVR charged during the period of time that is in time 
(and the rate charged to Ms and Mr C guaranteed to be below the SVR) is the result not 
only of decisions NRAM made during that period, but also the result of decisions it made 
prior to it.
As mentioned earlier, Im satisfied that each time NRAM made a decision to change the 
SVR, the SVR remained at that revised level until it made a further decision to change it  
from the starting point of the level resulting from the previous variation. Therefore, the SVR 
charged from 17 September 2015 is the sum of the parts of the history that went before. 
And issues impacting on those parts might have an impact on the fairness of the SVR 
charged from September 2015.
Having established that I need to look at the SVR both before and after September 2015, 
and having considered all the available evidence, I am not persuaded that anything NRAM 
has done in varying the rate has led to unfairness from 17 September 2015 onwards. Ill 
explain why.
HJ has said that NRAM breached a number of FCA principles and MCOB rules in the way 
it set its SVR. It says NRAM breached Principle 6 alongside Principle 8 and MCOB 12.5.1 
because the interest rate Ms and Mr C were charged after coming out of the initial fixed 
rate period, was excessive. HJ says that by deciding to hold the SVR or not reduce it by as 
much as the BoEBR or by having not reviewed the SVR following a reduction in the 
BoEBR, NRAM didnt have appropriate regard to Ms and Mr Cs interests.HJ has also said that increasing the margin between the BoEBR and the SVR to increase 
profit, is not a valid reason to have charged more interest. Also, that Ms and Mr C had a 
legitimate expectation any relevant increase or decrease in the cost of borrowing would be 
passed on to them.
In terms of FCA Principle 8, HJ says (informed by Report A) there was a conflict of interest 
between NRAM maximising recovery for the taxpayer (following receipt of State Aid 
assistance) and treating Ms and Mr C (a captive audience) fairly in terms of the interest 
they were charged.
HJ says that in the relevant period, NRAM faced significant costs, including consumer 
redress and that NRAMs profits were higher than they should have been (due to an 
inflated SVR), to cover these unrelated costs. It argues that NRAM breached Principle 6 by 
not affording Ms and Mr C the option to exit the contract before or after the interest rate 
variations, saying this led to a connected breach of MCOB 11.8.1. Related to this, it says 
that because NRAM was an inactive lender, it offered no other exit route out of the 
mortgage contract.
I cannot see how it can be said there has been a breach of MCOB 11.8.1, because I 
cannot see that NRAM treated Ms and Mr C differently to any other NRAM customers with 
similar characteristics. 
NRAM says that its SVR had at all times been comparable to SVRs set by other main 
lenders on the market. It said it reviewed the SVR during the period of time it didnt change 
after the global financial crisis (GFC). 
However, as mentioned earlier, I am conscious that there were special conditions attached 
to the unsecured loan attached to Ms and Mr Cs mortgage that may have made it more 
difficult for them  and other consumers in their position at the time they took out the loan  
to re-mortgage elsewhere. Ms and Mr C were highly leveraged and the unsecured
Together Loan had a delinking premium where they would have to pay higher interest on
the unsecured loan if they moved the mortgage elsewhere but werent able to refinance the 
loan. I consider that it would have been reasonably foreseeable it might have been difficult 
to refinance the unsecured personal loan as well as the mortgage.
Ultimately I think that it is necessary to consider what, if any, unfairness Ms and Mr C 
suffered as a result of mortgage payments based on changes to their interest rate. That 
requires me to consider whether NRAM has exercised the mortgage terms fairly. So Ive 
considered whether I think NRAM had legitimate reasons for varying the rate in the way it 
did and any impact on Ms and Mr C. In doing so, I am dealing with the other issues raised 
by HJ in relation to Principles 6 and 8.
Between December 2007 (when Ms and Mr C took out their mortgage) and April 2009, the 
SVR only reduced. But the difference between the SVR and the BoEBR increased from 
2.19% to 4.29%. 
Ive already set out that this was not a tracker mortgage so NRAM was not contractually
obligated to track the base rate. Nor did Ms and Mr Cs mortgage have a cap
preventing NRAMs SVR from increasing beyond a certain margin above base rate. Ive 
also already explained that I dont think a term allowing NRAM to reduce the SVR,
and with it, the amount Ms and Mr C had to pay, is likely to be unfair in principle as a matter 
of law. So, these changes are not impacted by the question of whether on a strict legal 
analysis the term would apply.
 But it is necessary to determine whether the way in which NRAM exercised this term was
fair. 
In terms of NRAMs provision of an explanation about why the SVR was varied as it was, 
HJs response to the investigators assessment contradicts itself in that it has said both of 
the following:
- The Ombudsman should direct NRAM to provide evidence in relation to why it 
varied the SVR and that the only evidence provided is retrospective analysis by an 
economist. It says that, without evidence of why the SVR had been varied as it had, 
there could not be a fair and proper resolution to the complaint  and that if relevant 
material wasnt provided, the Ombudsman could draw adverse inferences from this.
- It assumes information about why the SVR had been varied as it had, has been 
provided by NRAM and that, under the relevant rules, this information should be 
shared with HJ so that it has the opportunity to review and comment on it. 
As explained by the investigator in their assessment, NRAM has provided us with evidence 
to show how it reviewed the SVR over the relevant period, the decisions it took when it 
came to varying the rate and by how much as well as its general commercial strategy at the 
time. 
HJ has said that under the relevant DISP rules (3.5.9c and 3.5.10) accepting information in 
confidence is only permitted in relation to confidential evidence about third parties and 
security information. This is incorrect. DISP 3.5.10 says Evidence which the Ombudsman 
may accept in confidence includes (my emphasis) confidential evidence about third parties 
and security information. 
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out the evidence provided by NRAM 
in full or provided copies of it to Ms and Mr C. Our rules allow me to accept information in 
confidence, so that only a description of it is disclosed, where I consider it appropriate to do 
so. In this case, I do consider it appropriate to accept the information and evidence NRAM 
has provided in confidence, subject to the summary of it I have set out in this decision. I am 
satisfied that I have provided enough information to enable the parties to make meaningful 
submissions and for me to reach a fair conclusion.
The information provided by NRAM shows that during this time, the mortgage market was 
going through a period of significant change as a result of the GFC. This impacted the 
funding costs of businesses and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest 
rates charged across the market at the time. This was clear at the time and has been the 
subject of analysis by both the Bank of England2 and the FCA3 since. Whilst the BoEBR did 
reduce significantly during this period, the cost to lenders of funding their businesses 
changed, as did their prudential requirements. These were made up of several factors that 
are not directly linked to BoEBR. There was a substantial risk to all lenders during this 
period and they all had to find ways to mitigate that risk while balancing the need to treat 
customers fairly.
2 Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England  Bank funding costs: what are they, what determines
them and why do they matter?
3 May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in financial services consumer
contracts under the Consumer Rights Act paragraphs 2.8 to 2.10NRAM has told us that, like many lenders at the time, it was predominantly funded by
wholesale funding. The cost of which was in the most part, contractually defined by
reference to LIBOR and LIBOR generally followed base rate prior to the financial crisis. As 
a result, changes in base rate tended to result in changes to cost of funding. Before the
financial crisis, changes in costs of its retail funding also tended to correspond to changes 
in BoEBR.
However, during the financial crisis, there was a significant dislocation between LIBOR and
BoEBR, such that reductions in base rate were not matched by commensurate reductions 
to LIBOR or to NRAMs cost of wholesale funding. In addition, access to wholesale funding 
became harder to come by as lenders became more concerned at the risk of default  
NRAM in particular has shown how its credit rating was impacted and the implications this 
had on its ability to raise and the cost of its funding. It also experienced an outflow of its 
retail savings deposits following negative press in late 2007.
To avoid collapse, NRAM received State Aid in the form of a Government loan in 
September 2007. With the aid, came several conditions on how NRAM could operate and 
obligations on how and when it should look to repay the loan. Understandably, this 
significantly impacted its commercial strategy and with it, the cost of funding mortgages like 
Ms and Mr Cs. To add to this, NRAM was nationalised in February 2008 with its entire 
share capital being transferred to HM Treasury. One of the conditions of the restructure 
was that NRAM would be limited to a maximum 1.5% share of all retail funding in the UK 
and 0.8% in Ireland.
In addition, as part of its restructure, it was agreed NRAM would transfer all its higher 
quality assets to a third party, whilst the lower quality assets would remain with NRAM and 
be wound down. Given the perceived quality of its remaining assets, this had a further 
impact on the cost of NRAMs funding. 
From 2010 onwards, NRAMs cost of funding after receiving the government loan, was 
increasingly defined by reference to BoEBR. 
Ive thought about what HJ has said about the alleged conflict of interest issue and the 
interest charged being high in order to boost profits, not only in the context of its state aid 
obligations, but also in order to cover significant unrelated costs, including consumer 
redress.
As part of this, Ive considered both Report A provided by HJ and Report B provided by 
NRAM. In the context of the complaint made, I consider that Report A raises two 
fundamental issues:
- Was the interest rate charged by NRAM unfairly high, by reference to other rates
available on the market and given the wider context?
- Did NRAM breach Principle 8 (and thus Principle 6), by charging a level of interest
designed to increase profits in order to pay customer redress and meet its obligations 
under the government bailout?
NRAM reduced its SVR on several occasions during the financial crisis, just not by the 
same proportion as the BoEBR. Given the documented increase in cost of funding across 
the industry, including for NRAM specifically, and the obligations surrounding the 
Government loan (which included that NRAMs interest rate couldnt distort competition in 
the market), I am satisfied NRAM balanced its own financial position and obligations at the 
time with the impact such changes would have on customers like Ms and Mr C.After 2010 the only changes made to the SVR were in line with changes made to the 
BoEBR. NRAM has shown that the SVR was continually reviewed, with it having regard to 
the changes made by other lenders and its continuing obligations under the government
loan. During that period, the interest on the government loan was directly set by
reference to BoEBR, and that resulted in NRAMs costs becoming more in line with those 
movements.
Comparing SVR rates charged over time, it is evident that NRAMs SVR was at the higher 
end of what was being charged across the industry at the time. However, it was not an 
outlier  particularly when taking into account what report B shows when the analysis 
becomes more nuanced.
I note that HJ has said that the comparator analysis in Report B is flawed, because NRAM 
was in a very different position to other lenders in terms of its funding and not offering new 
loans. However, even on just a simple comparison, several lenders charged a higher SVR. 
While the SVR charged by other lenders is not directly relevant to NRAMs cost of funds, 
these factors reassure me in my conclusion that NRAMs decisions on how much to reduce 
its SVR by were proportionate to the costs it  along with the rest of the industry faced at 
this time and not unfair.
So, while I accept that a court may potentially find the relevant terms to be unfair pursuant 
to UTCCR, I am not persuaded that NRAM operated them in an unfair manner when 
setting and varying the interest rate that applied to Ms and Mr Cs mortgage or that they 
have led to Ms and Mr C being charged an unfairly high rate of interest on their mortgage.
I have not seen any evidence to suggest the changes it made were arbitrary, excessive, or
unfair. Rather, the evidence Ive seen satisfies me that NRAM acted to protect its legitimate 
interests while balancing its obligation to treat Ms and Mr C fairly. And Im further satisfied 
that the evidence NRAM has provided is corroborated by evidence of wider market 
conditions at the time.
In terms of the points HJ has made regarding NRAMs profits over time and what it says 
this means in terms of NRAM not managing a conflict of interest between itself and 
Ms and Mr C properly, Report A suggests that NRAMs profits in terms of pre-tax profit and 
average interest margins, were excessive. Report B says that net interest margin is a more 
appropriate measure of profits and when this is considered in the context of NRAMs 
position in the market in terms of the type and size of lender, the profit level is not 
excessive. 
HJ has said that NRAMs accounts show that it had a large consumer redress liability and 
that this is likely to have influenced the level at which NRAM set its SVR. HJ says that this 
has resulted in unfairness, because this means Ms and Mr C have, in effect, paid towards 
costs that have nothing to do with their mortgage. HJ has also said there are question 
marks about NRAM making any level of profit, given the government backing and that it 
was effectively in run-off.
I dont consider that either of these things mean that Ms and Mr C have been treated 
unfairly. First, I dont think there is anything wrong in NRAM having made a profit. In terms 
of customer redress payments featuring in NRAMs accounts, such redress is a factor that 
regulated firms need to deal with and is part and parcel of the running of the business. I 
dont think it is correct or necessary to separate out this element of the accounts from 
anything else, in the way that Report A seeks to do.HJ has also said that the suggestion NRAM couldnt reduce its SVR so as not to distort the 
market cannot be correct, because it wasnt offering new mortgages. As such, irrespective of 
how it set its SVR, there would have been no distortion to competition in terms of rates 
offered by other lenders. I find this analysis flawed. The interest charged by NRAM would 
affect the propensity of existing borrowers to consider looking elsewhere. Therefore the 
interest charged by NRAM could distort competition in the market. 
Taking everything into account, I dont consider that NRAM breached Principle 8 in relation 
its obligations to HM Treasury and its obligation to treat its customers fairly. Im satisfied 
that NRAM had regard to the impact any changes to the SVR would have on its customers 
and balanced that reasonably with its financial position and obligations at the time. 
NRAMs communications about the interest rate variations
HJ has also said that NRAM has breached Principle 7 and, connected to this, MCOB 
2.2.6R.
It says this is because NRAM didnt inform Ms and Mr C of the reasons behind changes to 
the SVR / their Guaranteed Rate. HJ says that the lack of reason given meant that the 
communications relating to interest rate changes were unclear and, as a consequence of 
this, misleading because it meant Ms and Mr C had no knowledge of how NRAMs 
discretion had been exercised.
NRAM says MCOB 2.2.6R isnt engaged, because it only applies to specified regulated
activities and that exercising its discretion to change the interest rate on the mortgage 
doesnt relate to any of the specified activities. It also says that all of its communications 
about interest rate changes have been clear, fair and not misleading.
Im not persuaded by HJs argument here. Ive seen the relevant communications informing 
Ms and Mr C about changes to the interest rate applying to their mortgage and I consider 
them to have been clear. They gave Ms and Mr C accurate information about the change 
to the interest rate  in terms of by how much (and the associated change to the monthly 
repayment amount) and when.
Ive considered that the contract didnt set out that NRAM needed to communicate the 
reasons why it decided to vary the interest rate  only the basis upon which it could make 
variations. NRAM not communicating the reason why it made a particular change doesnt 
mean that the communication was unclear. 
I also consider that, if Ms and Mr C had wanted to know the reason behind a particular 
change, for example because this was particularly important to them, I cant see there was 
anything preventing them from asking.
The extent to which what HJ has said about Braganza and Paragon vs Nash influences the 
outcome of the complaint.
I consider that it isnt necessary for me to make a finding on whether there are implied 
terms in the contract relating to the judgments in Braganza and Paragon vs Nash. This is 
because even if such terms were implied, Im satisfied from all the evidence Ive seen, 
described above, that NRAMs decisions to vary the SVR as it did, were reasonable and 
based on legitimate commercial judgments.Other matters
In response to the investigators assessment, HJ said that when entering into the mortgage 
contract, Ms and Mr C expected they would have the opportunity after their initial rate 
expired, to switch to a more favourable rate than the SVR, either with NRAM or another 
lender. HJ said that, after the Mortgage Market Review (MMR) changes came into force, it 
wouldve been more difficult for NRAM customers to effect such a rate switch and that such 
customers should be categorised as mortgage prisoners. 
HJ also said that, whilst is appreciated that Ms and Mr C hadnt tried to attempt to exit the 
mortgage arrangement, the fact it would have been difficult to do so, should be considered.
HJs comments provided about NRAM customers in general being mortgage prisoners arent 
about Ms and Mr Cs specific circumstances. My role is to consider the specific complaint 
brought by Ms and Mr C, which means having regard to their specific circumstances. 
HJ has said Ms and Mr C didnt try to move, but if they had, they would have found it more 
difficult. 
Given that Ms and Mr C didnt try to move, I cannot say what would have happened if they 
did. Regardless, because I think it was reasonably foreseeable that the Together Loan might 
make it more difficult for Ms and Mr C to move, Ive considered the fairness of the interest 
rate they were charged. For the reasons given above, I dont consider that the rate charged 
on Ms and Mr Cs mortgage has led to any unfairness.
In conclusion, Im not persuaded that NRAM treated Ms and Mr C unfairly and I do not 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms and Mr Cs complaint about NRAM Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman