DRN-2146316
The complaint
Mr J complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called PDL 
Finance Limited, trading at the time as Mr Lender. Mr J says he was lent to irresponsibly and 
the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender throughout this decision.
What happened
We now know that Mr J took out 6 short-term loans from Mr Lender between October 2016 
and August 2019. Ive enclosed a summary of his borrowing, based on the information it 
provided to us: 
Loan Date Taken Out Date Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 07/10/2016 24/03/2017 Instalment £400 £147
2 01/04/2017 26/07/2017 Instalment £300 £133
3 02/08/2017 07/01/2018 Instalment £700 £262
4 18/07/2018 22/12/2018 Payday £200 £124
5 12/02/2019 25/07/2019 Payday £200 £134
6 16/08/2019 14/03/2020 Payday £200 £132
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
for loan number 6 only. Mr Lender said it didnt agree, so Ive been asked to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Js complaint.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
J could repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr J could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loans being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr J could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Mr Lender told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Mr J including assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says this 
information showed that he would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing 
to. Ive also taken account of what Ive said above, about the length of the lending 
relationship, and applied it to the circumstances of loans 1, 2 and 3 in this case. And I dont 
think its clear enough that what Mr Lender would have would have seen, from its checks, 
would have suggested loans 1 - 3 were unaffordable for Mr J. His declared income ranged 
from £1,175 - £1,575 (after tax) per month and he seemed to have capacity to repay the 
loans without undue difficulties.
I accept that Mr J may have already been finding managing money quite difficult at this point. 
However, theres no clear record that the type or depth of financial checks that were carried 
out at that time would have exposed these issues. So, Im afraid I dont agree that Mr Lender 
knew its lending was unsustainable at this point. I therefore dont uphold this part of the 
complaint.
As our adjudicator pointed out, there was then a break in the lending comprising over six 
months in length. In circumstances like this, I think its reasonable to consider that one loan 
chain had ended and a new one had begun. And as such, I revert to the length of the 
lending chain being relevant again to the type and depth of checks that would normally be 
expected of Mr Lender. And for the same reasons Ive given above, I think loan number 4 
would have looked sustainable. 
What did become more concerning at around this time was that for loan number 4 Mr J 
began to experience difficulties with the repayments schedule. He took action by sorting this 
out with Mr Lender, agreeing a short extension but this situation occurred again for loan 
number 5. So, Mr J was showing he was struggling to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other his wider financial commitments. I therefore think that by this point Mr Lender 
should have seen that the lending was becoming unsustainable. 
However, theres no indication that Mr Lender did anything different and it continued to lend 
to him even though any reasonable assessment would have shown he was by now in a financially vulnerable situation. So, in this regard loan number 6 is the point where the 
lending was clearly unsustainable and Im upholding this part of Mr Js complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the points Mr Lender puts forward in defending all its lending, which 
in my view are weak ones. Essentially, it places the full weight of responsibility for the 
borrowing on Mr J. But as a regulated business, Mr Lender should know what its 
responsibilities are around unsustainable lending. Ive outlined these at the beginning of this 
decision. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr J, Mr Lender should:
refund all interest and charges Mr J paid on loan 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
it was paid to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file in relation to loan 6.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr J a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Js complaint at the point of loan 6 - and I direct PDL Finance Limited to 
put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman