DRN-4199009
The complaint
Ms O complains about the subsidence repairs completed by Covea Insurance plc under her 
buildings insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator, for these reasons:
As our investigator has explained, Covea chose to carry out repairs under the 
subsidence claim which means the repairs should be effective and lasting. 
Extensive repairs were completed in October 2022, yet damp appeared in the same 
area of the room in early 2023. Taking this into account, its not unreasonable for 
Ms O to consider the new issues may well be related to the repairs Covea carried 
out.
Covea says the photos show rising damp, so it doesnt think its responsible for this. 
It thinks the issue is due to a closed air vent. But Ms O says there wasnt any damp 
in that area before Covea did the repairs. I also note that Covea didnt discover any 
issues with damp in that area during the repairs (it has reported on other areas where 
pre-existing damage was found).
I agree with our investigator that Covea ought to have carried out an inspection at the 
property to establish whether the new problems were caused by or related to its 
repairs. I therefore require it to do so, and if the damage is found to be related to 
Coveas repairs, it should put this right. 
I also think Ms O has been caused inconvenience by Coveas refusal to carry out an 
inspection, as she has had to live with the damage whilst pursuing her complaint with 
this Service. I require Covea to pay her £200 compensation for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to carry out an 
inspection to establish whether the damp is related to its previous repairs. If so, it should put 
this right. 
I also require Covea to pay Ms O £200 compensation*.
*Covea must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms O 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman