DRN-3291675
The complaint
Mr D complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo (ELL) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr D has been assisted in making this complaint by a claims management company 
(CMC). But in this decision, for ease, I will generally refer to all communication as having 
been with, and from, Mr D himself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
Mr D was given a single loan by ELL. He borrowed £5,000 in January 2015 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 60 monthly instalments.
ELL gathered some information from Mr D before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal housing costs. It then used some industry 
statistical data to estimate the remainder of Mr Ds expenditure. And it checked his 
credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how well he 
had managed credit in the past.
Mr D was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that ELL wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ds financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described 
above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think ELLs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. In some cases, 
those results might sometimes lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. 
Or the results might lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers 
financial situation. And that is what I think should have happened in this case.
The credit check results showed that Mr D had faced problems managing his money 
in the past. His credit file showed three outstanding accounts that had been defaulted 
a number of years before. ELL has said that Mr D had said that hed previously been 
in an IVA. But since those defaulted accounts remained outstanding Id assume that 
they hadnt formed part of that arrangement. And experience often shows that 
consumers who have faced problems managing their money in the past, frequently 
face similar problems in the future.
 
The credit check also showed that Mr D had taken a significant hire purchase loan 
just a few months before. I have seen that Mr D told ELL that he wanted to use the 
new loan to consolidate his debts. But the outstanding hire purchase balance was 
more than three times greater than what he was asking to borrow. And his other 
debts, including those that were defaulted, amounted to less than £1,000. So I think 
ELL might have also been concerned whether it knew enough about Mr Ds reasons 
for requesting the loan.
So I think ELL should have probed deeper into Mr Ds finances. But although I think 
ELL should have gathered more information, that in itself doesnt mean that Mr Ds 
complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded that the results of those 
additional checks would have shown ELL that Mr D couldnt sustainably afford the 
repayments.
Our investigator asked Mr D for copies of his bank statements from around the time 
of the loan. At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the 
exact check that ELL should have carried out. I do think ELL needed further evidence 
to corroborate what
Mr D said was happening with his finances. And looking at his bank statements is 
one way of achieving that although there are of course many other ways that level of 
detail could be established. But I think that by looking at Mr Ds bank statements 
I could get a good idea of what further checks might have shown.
Mr D has told us that he is unable to provide copies of his bank statements from 
around the time the loan was agreed. Without that information Im not able to get a 
picture of what his financial circumstances were like at the relevant time. That means 
I cant say that if ELL had completed additional checks it wouldve found that Mr D 
couldnt afford to repay the loan.
I appreciate that Mr D set out an estimate of his income and outgoings at the time of 
the loan. But I dont think it would be reasonable for me to rely on that. Thats 
because Mr D was recalling quite detailed information about his outgoings some time 
after hed taken the loan.
So Im not able to say that the information ELL should have gathered at the time 
would have led it to reasonably decline Mr Ds loan application. If Mr D is able to 
provide us with copies of his bank statements I will of course reconsider my decision 
on this complaint. But, based on the information currently available to me, Im not 
able to conclude that the loan was lent irresponsibly.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Neither ELL nor Mr D have provided us with anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. As I explained in that 
decision, without sight of Mr Ds bank statements from the time, Im not able to say that the 
information ELL should have gathered would have led it to reasonably decline the loan 
application. So based on the information available to me, Im not able to conclude that the 
loan was lent irresponsibly.My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman