DRN-2412561
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK PLC incorrectly recorded adverse credit on his credit file 
about another customer. He said this led to his mortgage application being declined.
What happened
Mr A holds an account with Santander. After he moved to his home address, he began to 
receive correspondence from Santander addressed to Mrs W. This was an individual Mr A 
didnt know whod lived at his property before he moved in.
Mrs W hadnt managed her account with Santander in line with the terms and conditions of 
her account. So, her account had been transferred to Collections and Recoveries and 
adverse credit was recorded by Santander. It sent letters to her at Mr As address about the 
status of her account even though a mail block had been applied in 2017.
Mr A was in the process of applying for a mortgage in June 2020. And, on 11 June 2020, he 
found out that his application had been declined. Mr A thought this had happened as a result 
of adverse credit associated with Mrs W at his address. So, on 12 June 2020, he complained 
to Santander. 
Santander investigated Mr As concerns but it didnt uphold his complaint. In its final 
response to his complaint, Santander explained that Mrs W had been registered as living at 
his address. And it said Mrs W hadnt contacted it to update her address. So, it wasnt aware 
she was no longer living there until Mr A contacted it. It explained that it had carried out a 
financial association deletion request on Mr As behalf. And it recommended that he request 
a financial disassociation from Mrs W with credit reference agencies.
Being dissatisfied with Santanders response to his complaint, Mr A referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happed and empathised with Mr A. But they didnt 
recommend upholding his complaint as they didnt think Santander had done anything wrong 
or needed to do anything more. But Mr A disagreed and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think Santander made a mistake, or treated Mr A unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he 
and Santander have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr A will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Ive read and considered all the information provided by Mr A and Santander, but Ill 
concentrate my decision on what I think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it. Its because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I realise Mr A is unhappy that Santander associated Mrs A with his address after she 
vacated that property. He seems to be suggesting that Santander should have recognised 
that when he moved into the address Mrs W no longer lived there. But that isnt something 
that can be assumed. And Santander was right to say its reliant on customers making it 
aware when they change address. Here, Im satisfied that Mrs W didnt update her address 
with Santander. So, it couldnt have known she was no longer living at Mr As address until it 
was told shed moved house.
Ive seen evidence that shows Santander applied a mail block on Mrs Ws account in 2017 
due to mail being returned to it. I think that was a reasonable course of action for Santander 
to take in the circumstances. But it still didnt have any details of where Mrs W was living. 
So, it couldnt record a new address on her customer record.
I understand that Mr A is unhappy that Santander continued to write to Mrs W at his home 
address after that time, and that it continued to record her home address as one where it 
knew she was no longer living. But Santander has explained that, where a balance is 
outstanding on a customers account, it has a legal obligation to send letters about the status 
of their account to their last known address. Here this was Mr As address. And this explains 
why he continued to receive letters addressed to Mrs W after she vacated that property and 
after the mail block was applied.
Its clear Mr A believes his mortgage application was declined as a result of adverse credit 
associated with Mrs W at his address. But based on the evidence Ive seen Mr Ws 
application was declined due to him failing to meet the qualifying criteria as his credit score 
was below the required approval level.
Lenders take many factors into account when assessing a mortgage application. And
there can be many reasons why a mortgage provider may decline to offer credit. Mr A hasnt 
provided evidence to show that his mortgage application was declined solely because 
information about Mrs W was recorded against his home address. And he hasnt given our 
service a copy of his credit file. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough to show what caused 
Mr As application to be declined. And Im not persuaded its possible to draw the conclusion 
that his mortgage application was declined because of the information Santander had 
recorded about Mrs W. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded that Santander took Mr As 
concerns about his credit file seriously. Its carried out a financial association deletion 
request on his behalf. And it recommended that he request a financial disassociation from 
Mrs W with credit reference agencies. I think this was sensible advice. And I dont think its 
reasonable to expect Santander to do anything else.
I understand Mr A feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything hes said. But for the reasons set out above Im not satisfied 
that Santander made an error. So, Im not going to be asking it to do anything more. 
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr As dispute with Santander 
informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr A any further with this.
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman