DRN-1941134
 
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) declining 
his application for a credit card.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Tesco Bank is required to undertake checks before providing credit to consumers. In 
this case it declined Mr Ms credit application. When deciding whether or not to 
provide credit a business will undertake a range of checks and take into account a 
number of different criteria. So, while I appreciate Mr Ms comments about his credit 
score and other information, I do not find that this means Tesco Bank was required to 
accept his application.
Mr M has said he meet the Tesco Banks advertised criteria. I note his comments but 
the advertisement for credit will set out certain criteria that will be considered. 
Applications are then required to undergo a checking process. Tesco Bank has said 
Mr M didnt meet its lending criteria and therefore its decision not to accept Mr Ms 
application is reasonable.
Mr M had a right to ask why his application had been declined and under the 
Standards of Lending Practice, Tesco Bank should give him the primary reason. In 
this case Tesco Bank told Mr M that he didnt meet its lending criteria. While I 
understand that Mr M wanted further details of this, I find that Tesco Bank did provide 
him with the reason as required.
Mr M has also complained that he didnt receive the service he should have and had 
to chase for responses. I understand that this issue has caused Mr M distress and 
inconvenience however, having looked at the information provided, Mr Ms 
application was put through on 19 February 2019 and a letter was sent to him on 21 
February saying his application had been declined. He raised a complaint on 26 
February and appealed the decision on 3 March. A response to his appeal was sent 
on 8 March and a response to his complaint issued on 12 March. So, while I note 
Mr Ms comments, I find that Tesco Bank provided timely responses to Mr Ms 
application, appeal and complaint. I appreciate the outcome wasnt what Mr M 
wanted but I find that Tesco Bank did provide the service and information required. 
Overall, I find that Tesco Bank undertook its required checks before deciding whether 
to accept Mr Ms application. As the results of these checks were that Mr M didnt 
meet its lending criteria, I do not find I can say Tesco Bank did anything wrong by 
declining Mr Ms application. I also find that it has provided him with the primary 
reason for its decision, that is Mr M not meeting its lending criteria. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr M wants but for the reasons set out above, I do not uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2020. 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman