DRN-4374844
The complaint
Mrs D complains about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under her home 
insurance policy for damage to a felt flat roof at her property caused by bad weather. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2023, at the time of Storm Otto, bad weather caused damage to a felt flat roof of 
the garage of Mrs Ds property, with a large part of the roof coming away and landing on a 
neighbours garage. The roof that came away was in one piece, and Mrs D and friends took 
down the piece (cutting it up to make the task manageable). She contacted QIC to tell them 
about the damage and lodge a claim. QIC arranged for a surveyor (P) to visit the property 
and assess the damage. 
P visited the property just under a week later and took photographs of the roof from ground 
level, using a camera on a pole. Ps subsequent report said Mrs D told them the roof was in 
place when they moved to the property in 2017 and they hadnt carried out any work on it 
since then. P said inspection showed the felt was in poor condition, with signs of weathering 
and wear and tear, perished and cracked and coming apart at the edges. Other parts 
showed signs of solar degradation and cracking. P concluded the felt had de-bonded over 
time from the decking boards beneath, allowing wind and rain to get under the felt. P 
concluded the bad weather merely highlighted these pre-existing issues, rather than being 
the proximate cause. So, the damage wasnt the result of a one-off, storm event. Based on 
Ps report, QIC declined Mrs Ds claim because of a policy exclusion for damage caused by 
wear and tear.
Mrs D challenged the decline. She said the felt wasnt perished and the part lifted off the roof 
had done so in one piece. Roofers visiting the property (to quote for repair of the roof) told 
her the felt wasnt perished (and would have had at least five more years life remaining). All 
the anchor points for the felt had been ripped up in the direction in which the felt came away, 
which she thought showed the felt was bonded securely to the roof before the bad weather.
QIC treated Mrs Ds challenge as a complaint, but they didnt uphold it. Their final response, 
referred to Ps report, as well as their in-house surveyors view that the felt was worn and 
had come to the end of its lifespan, showing around the edges it was split and had degraded 
over time. QIC maintained their decision to decline the claim on the grounds the damage 
was caused by wear and tear (referring to the policy wording for the exclusion).
Mrs D then complained to this service. She disagreed with QICs decline of the claim due to 
wear and tear, saying there were no issues with the roof prior to the incident and no leaks 
into the garage. Shed had to repair the roof at her own expense and the time taken 
assessing the claim and what she saw as a lack of communication from QIC meant the roof 
timber base was exposed to the elements and was now leaking. She wanted QIC to accept 
her claim and pay compensation for the additional damage to the roof and for the stress and 
upset shed suffered. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding QIC unfairly declined the claim. She 
thought the photographs of the felt that remained in place showed it was in good condition 
and while there was some cracking, this was next to the area where the felt had lifted, so the 
cracking could have been a result of the lifting off of the adjacent felt. Having considered all 
the evidence, she wasnt persuaded gradual deterioration was the primary cause of the 
damage  it was more likely due to the high winds. She also thought the decline of the claim 
caused Mrs D distress and upset, in addition to having to source and arrange repair of the 
roof (Mrs D had paid £1,850 to have the roof repaired). The investigator also thought Mrs D 
had suffered from delays in her claim being assessed (and further reviewed by QICs in-
house surveyor) and a lack of communication about the initial decline of her claim.
To put things right, the investigator thought QIC should reimburse Mrs D £1,750 (the £1,850 
cost of repair less the £100 policy excess) plus interest from the date Mrs D paid for the 
repair. QIC should also pay £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience from poor 
service and unfair decline of the claim.
QIC disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They maintained their view there was clear evidence the felt had deteriorated and 
the wind had merely highlighted its condition. And wind alone couldnt remove a felt roof 
unless it was able to get underneath the felt. For this to happen, cracking must be evident to 
allow the wind underneath  so gradual deterioration was the root cause of the damage. As 
they didnt believe theyd unfairly declined the claim, QIC thought the compensation for 
distress and inconvenience was excessive. They accepted there was a short delay, so would 
offer Mrs D £50 in compensation. 
In my findings, I reached a different conclusion to the investigator. From photographs of the 
felt, I thought there was evidence of deterioration, particularly around the edges of the felt 
that came away and the edges of the roof. While the felt remaining in place hadnt lifted, I 
noticed indications of some lifting to the joins of sections of the felt and some pooling of 
water on the remaining sections of felt, which would indicate some de-bonding of those 
sections  even though they werent lifted. 
I also considered its generally accepted flat felt roofs have a far more limited lifespan than 
pitched, tiled roofs and require checks to ensure they remain bonded and sealed. And may 
require replacement at, potentially, between eight and fifteen years. From what I saw, it 
appeared no work was carried out on the roof from the time Mrs D moved into the property, 
some five to six years before the incident. While I hadnt seen anything to indicate what work 
may have been carried out before Mrs D moved in, these points about the condition of the 
roof would be consistent with no maintenance or renewal for some time. 
I also considered QICs point that high winds on their own wouldnt be sufficient to lift off a 
felt flat roof unless wind was able to get underneath the felt. I was persuaded it was 
reasonable to conclude this was likely to have been the case  I didnt think a properly 
bonded, sealed felt roof would have lifted off in the way it did unless the wind was able to get 
under the felt. Which, if the felt had become de-bonded, would have made it possible for the 
wind to then lift the felt. 
Taking these points into account, I concluded QIC had done enough (given the onus on 
them to show the exclusion applied) to have applied the exclusion for wear and tear to 
decline the claim for damage to the felt roof, in the specific circumstances of the case.
While Ive reached this conclusion, I also considered the timeline of events and the issue of 
communication between Mrs D and QIC. From what I saw, there was a lack of 
communication of the initial decline of the claim. QIC accepted there was some delay and 
offered £50 compensation. Taking the circumstances of the case into account, I thought this 
was reasonable and I expected QIC to pay this to Mrs D (if they hadnt already).Because I reached different conclusions to those of the investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out 
below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mrs D.
The main element of Mrs Ds complaint is that QIC unfairly declined her claim, on the 
grounds that the bad weather at the time of the incident wasnt the main cause of the 
damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the condition of the roof. 
In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response QIC refer to the policy definition of storm, one 
element of which is a gale of Force 10 or above (under the Beaufort Scale) reaching wind 
speeds of at least 55 mph. QIC say the weather conditions around the date of the incident 
indicate a highest recorded wind speed of 54 mph. While this is just below 55 mph, the final 
response says they were satisfied the policy definition for a storm event was met. And using 
the weather source used by this service, it indicates a maximum gust of 68 mph at the 
nearest weather station on the date of the incident.
So, Ive concluded the answer to the first question is yes.
On the second question, Ive considered the description of the damage provided by Mrs D 
(and in Ps report) as well as the photographs of the damaged roof. Damage to roofs is 
damage wed expect to see in storm conditions, and its clear a large piece of the felt roof 
came away during the bad weather. 
So, Ive concluded the answer to the second question is also yes.
So, the third question is key and its where QIC declined the claim on the grounds the cause 
of the damage was wear and tear and the condition of the roof prior to the bad weather. In 
other words, the bad weather only highlighted existing issues with the roof, the result of wear 
and tear. So, the bad weather wasnt the main or dominant cause of the damage.
Ive considered this issue carefully, including the points made by Mrs D (and what she says 
were the views of the roofers who quoted for repairing the roof) together with the views of P. 
Ive also looked at the photographs of the roof and the felt (both that blown off and that which 
remained in place on the roof. Taking all these things into account, Ive concluded QIC have 
acted fairly in declining Mrs Ds claim. I know this will be disappointing to Mrs D, so Ill set 
out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. But where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC have 
done by citing wear and tear) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. 
Looking at the available information and evidence, I think QIC have done so in the specific 
circumstances of this case. Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, QIC refer to the following policy wording, where theres the following 
exclusion under the heading General Exclusions which states the following is not covered:
12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage:
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
Wear and tear;
Gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not);
Exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions
QIC also refer to the Storm section of the policy which states the policy does not cover: 
d. anything that happens gradually.
Ive also considered Ps report. The key parts are as follows, first under a heading External 
Damage Summary:
When inspecting the felt on the ground we found the felt to be in poor condition 
showing signs of age-related wear and tear and weathering. The felt was perished 
and cracked and coming apart along the edges and the middle sections of the felt 
showed signs of solar degradation and further cracking. The felt has become 
debonded from the decking boards over time due to these cracks and splits allowing 
wind and rain to get under the felt. The recent bad weather has then highlighted this 
by the felt being lifted off.
The report states the claim should be declined on the following grounds:
From inspection of the flat felt roof we can see that it has not suffered damage as a 
result of a one-off storm event of storm damage. We can see areas which are 
cracked and split, and the surface is suffering from signs of solar degradation all of 
which is due to age/wear and tear and therefore the roof would not be covered under 
the terms of the policy as the weather has merely highlighted this.
When bringing her complaint to this service, Mrs D questioned Ps inspection of the roof, 
saying they didnt go onto the roof but took photographs using a camera on a pole. However, 
I dont think this means Ps views should be disregarded. Taking remote images of roofs isnt 
unreasonable (also given a damaged roof may present safety risks). And the images are of 
reasonable quality. And P would have been able to inspect the felt that had blown off, as it 
was on the ground at the property.
QICs final response also refers to the conclusion of their in-house surveyor:
There is no cover for the damage to the flat roof. The felt is all worn and come to the 
end of its lifespan, it shows around the edges that its all split and degraded over 
time.
Ive considered these points together with those raised by Mrs D, including what she says 
she was told about the condition of the roof by roofers. Mrs D also says there were no issues 
with the roof before the incident and no leaks into the garage (which she feels would have been the case had the felt been cracked  which would then have let in water). She also 
says the felt coming away in one piece indicates it wasnt brittle or perished  had it been, 
the high winds would have caused it to lift off in pieces (not one single piece). She also cites 
views from her roofer that once bonded, there isnt any maintenance that can be carried out 
on a flat felt roof.
Looking at the photographs of the felt, both the pieces (as they were taken down) that lifted 
off and the pieces that remained in place, I think there is evidence of deterioration, 
particularly around the edges of the felt that came away and the edges of the roof. While the 
felt remaining in place hasnt lifted, Ive noticed indications of some small lifting to the joins of 
sections of the felt (which appear to run horizontally across the garage). There is also some 
pooling of water on the remaining sections of felt, which would indicate some de-bonding of 
those sections  even though they werent lifted. 
Mrs D says there were no issues with the roof (or leaks into the garage) before the incident. 
However, this doesnt mean there were no issues with the condition of the felt that could 
then lead to the damage that occurred. The wooden decking beneath the felt appears to be 
in good condition  its just the felt covering it thats been lifted off the roof.
Ive also considered its generally accepted flat felt roofs have a far more limited lifespan 
than pitched, tiled roofs and require checks to ensure they remain bonded and sealed. And 
may require replacement at, potentially, between eight and fifteen years. From what Ive 
seen, it appears no work was carried out on the roof from the time Mrs D moved into the 
property (2017) which would be between five and six years before the incident. While I 
haven seen anything to indicate what work may have been carried out before Mrs D moved 
in (such as when the roof was previously repaired or renewed) the points above about the 
condition of the roof would be consistent with no maintenance or renewal for some time. 
Ive also considered QICs point (in response to our investigators view) that high winds on 
their own wouldnt be sufficient to lift off a felt flat roof unless wind was able to get 
underneath the felt to then lift it off (whether in pieces or as a single piece). Im persuaded 
its reasonable to conclude this is likely to have been the case  I dont think a properly 
bonded, sealed felt roof would have lifted off in the way it did unless the wind was able to get 
under the felt through a crack (or cracks). Which, if the felt had become de-bonded (in place 
or places) would have made it possible for the wind to then lift the felt (as it wasnt bonded or 
bonded sufficiently). 
Mrs D also provided evidence of damage to other properties in the area, with claims being 
accepted by the insurers. While this may be the case, it doesnt of itself mean QIC should 
have accepted Mrs Ds claim. Other claims would have been assessed by the insurers and 
they would have decided whether to accept those claims. My role here is to decide whether 
QIC have acted fairly in declining Mrs Ds claim, based on the circumstances of the case and 
the available information and evidence.
Taking these points into account, then Ive concluded QIC have done enough (given the 
onus being on them to show the exclusion applies) to have applied the exclusion for wear 
and tear fairly and reasonably to decline the claim for damage to the felt roof, in the specific 
circumstances of this case.
While Ive reached this conclusion, Ive also considered the timeline of events and the issue 
of communication between Mrs D and QIC. From what Ive seen, there was a lack of 
communication of the initial decline of the claim. QIC thought P had communicated the 
decline, but it appears this wasnt the case (other than what P said, or may have said, about 
decline of the claim during their inspection). QIC accept there was some delay and offered £50 compensation. Taking the circumstances of the case into account, I think this is 
reasonable and I would expect QIC to pay this to Mrs D (if they havent already).
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision that I intend to require QIC 
Europe Ltd to:
Pay Mrs D £50 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mrs D accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Mrs D responded to make several points. 
First, she referred to the points shed made when bringing her complaint, challenging the 
issue of whether the roof had been de-bonded, saying they should have been considered 
and responded to. Secondly, she referred to weather data indicating winds of 78mph on the 
night of the storm conditions. Thirdly, that there was no indication of water getting under the 
felt, over time, with no staining or degradation of the boards underneath the roof. Fourthly, 
referring to publicly available information, that pooling of water wouldnt have been a 
problem. 
Fifthly, that shed sought advice from a roofing trade body, who said the roof couldnt have 
been repaired or maintained. And that the roof was subject to high winds, so storm damage 
had occurred (and this supported her view the main (or dominant) cause of the damage was 
the wind). Mrs D also provided a view from a roofing contractor trade body, saying in their 
opinion there wasnt anything she could have done to make the roof more secure, and the 
damage was caused by an Act of God and should be covered under Mrs Ds policy.
Mrs D also challenged the provisional decision conclusion on compensation. She didnt think 
£50 was reflective of the stress, delay, and inconvenience shed been caused. Or the 
additional costs of the boards under the roof that were exposed to the elements while her 
claim was being assessed. She expected compensation to cover the additional costs, which 
she said were significantly higher than £50. 
Mrs D also referred to statements on this services website saying we expect insurers to 
treat their customers fairly and in a timely manner. And that if a consumer had lost out 
financially, we would aim to put them back in the position they would have been had the 
insurer not made a mistake.
QIC responded to accept the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC have acted fairly towards Mrs D.
Ive considered carefully the points made by Mrs D in her response to my provisional 
decision, which Ill cover in turn.On her first point, the points shed made when bringing her complaint, challenging the issue 
of whether the roof had been de-bonded, saying they should have been considered and 
responded to, I did see the points and consider them when forming my provisional decision. 
While I may not have included them in detail in my provisional decision, I did consider them 
together with all the other evidence and information provided, both by Mrs D and by QIC. 
On the second point, Mrs D refers to weather data indicating winds of 78mph on the night of 
the storm conditions. As I set out in my provisional decision, I concluded there had been 
storm conditions at the time of the incident. So, while Mrs D refers to a higher wind speed 
from a weather station in the area of her property, this doesnt change my conclusion there 
were storm conditions. The key question in this case, as I set out in my provisional decision, 
is whether the storm conditions were the main (or dominant) cause of the damage.
Mrs Ds third point is that there was no indication of water getting under the felt, over time, 
with no staining or degradation of the boards underneath the roof. I considered this point in 
coming to my provisional decision, when I concluded that while there may have been no 
issues with the roof (or leaks into the garage) before the incident, this didnt mean there were 
no issues with the condition of the felt that could then lead to the damage that occurred. I 
acknowledged the wooden decking beneath the felt appears to be in good condition  it was 
the felt covering that had been lifted off the roof.
Fourthly, Mrs D refers to publicly available information that pooling of water wouldnt have 
been a problem. Ive looked at the source and accept what it says. So, this may not have 
indicated a specific issue with the roof. However, I noted the ponding was evident on the 
remaining section of roof that hadnt lifted  which would be consistent with the publicly 
available information provided by Mrs D. But it doesnt affect my findings and conclusions 
about the likely cause of the damage, to that part of the roof that did lift.
Fifthly, Mrs D says shes sought advice from a roofing trade body, who said the roof couldnt 
have been repaired or maintained. And that the roof was subject to high winds, so storm 
damage had occurred. So, this supported her view the main (or dominant) cause of the 
damage was the wind. Mrs D also provided a view from a roofing contractor trade body, 
saying in their opinion there wasnt anything she could have done to make the roof more 
secure, and the damage was caused by an Act of God and should be covered under Mrs 
Ds policy.
While I recognise the views and opinions provided, they dont rebut the conclusions in my 
provisional decision about the most likely cause of the damage. In particular, I dont think 
they address the conclusion that high winds on their own wouldnt be sufficient to lift off a felt 
flat roof unless wind was able to get underneath the felt to then lift it off. And that a properly 
bonded, sealed felt roof wouldnt have lifted off in the way it did unless the wind was able to 
get under the felt through a crack (or cracks). So, I havent changed my view on this point.
On the point about statements on this services website saying we expect insurers to treat 
their customers fairly and in a timely manner, my role here is to consider whether QIC acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs D. My conclusions, as set out in my provisional decision 
and above, are that QIC acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mrs Ds claim.  
But I also concluded there was a lack of communication of the initial decline of the claim 
(which QIC accept). In those circumstances, this did cause distress and inconvenience to 
Mrs D. Taking the circumstances of the case into account, I thought £50 fair and reasonable.
Mrs D says she doesnt think £50 is reflective of the stress, delay, and inconvenience shed 
been caused. Or the additional costs of the boards under the roof that were exposed to the 
elements while her claim was being assessed. She expected compensation to cover the 
additional costs, which she said were significantly higher than £50. But when considering awards for distress and inconvenience, the purpose isnt to compensate a consumer for 
additional financial costs, unless we think a business hasnt acted fairly or reasonably. And 
in this case Ive concluded QIC have acted fairly and reasonably, in declining Mrs Ds claim. 
That being the case, we wouldnt ask QIC to cover any additional costs associated with the 
claim (the incident that led to the claim).
Mrs D makes the point that if a consumer has lost out financially, we would aim to put them 
back in the position they would have been, had the insurer not made a mistake. That is the 
approach of this service, where we think the insurer has made a mistake. But as Ive 
concluded above, I dont think thats the case here, as Ive concluded QIC acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining Mrs Ds claim.
Taking all these conclusions together, I havent changed my provisional view. So, my final 
decision remains the same, for the reasons set out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Pay Mrs D £50 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mrs D accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman