DRN-3140533
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
April 2000. Mr A and Mrs S says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them the 
PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr A and 
Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr A and Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr A and Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr A and 
Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mr A and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Ill explain why. 
BoS has provided a copy of the application form that was completed at the time Mr A 
and Mrs S arranged their mortgage and were sold the PPI. Within this application form I 
can see there is a separate section for the PPI and in Mr A and Mrs Ss case its been 
decided the policy will just cover Mr A. 
I dont know what was discussed during the meeting but looking at this form it seems 
there was a discussion about the PPI. I wouldve expected Mr A and Mrs S to read over 
the form and to have had an opportunity to raise any questions they had at the time 
before signing it. So, taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr A and 
Mrs S knew the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue 
pressure.
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr A and Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. The policy covered Mr A only so I have focused on his circumstances. 
Looking at Mr As circumstances at the time, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for him. Firstly, Mr A was eligible for the cover. Mr A has referred to his 
employee benefits, which he says they couldve relied on if he was unable to work. Ive 
considered these points, but I still think Mr A and Mrs S wouldve found the PPI useful. 
The PPI wouldve paid out alongside Mr As employee benefits, and for longer, as they 
couldve used the policy for up to 24 months if they needed it to. Mr A has also referred 
to the death in service benefit Mr A was entitled to. This cover isnt comparable to the 
PPI which specifically covered Mr A if he lost his job or was too unwell to work. 
I can also see that Mr A and Mrs Ss mortgage was a significant and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. The effects of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious for them. I think having the security that their 
repayments wouldve been made if Mr A was unable to work wouldve been important to 
them. Overall it seems to me the PPI wouldve been of use if either Mr A was unable to 
work.
There was nothing about Mr As employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Mr A has referred to a health issue he had many years before 
the sale. This seems to have been treated at the time and Mr A hasnt told us about any 
on-going issues he had because of this health issue or any periods of time he had to 
take off work because of it. It seems at the actual point of sale Mr A was in good general 
health, so it seems reasonable for BoS to recommend the policy to Mr A. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr A and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr A and Mrs S as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr A and Mrs S would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr As circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think they would have 
still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr A and Mrs S would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr A and Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr A and Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr A and Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr A and Mrs Ss particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr A and Mrs Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman