DRN-4260948
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) 
has unfairly declined his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
Although the things bought using credit were bought in the names of both Mr and Mrs C, the 
credit card used was in Mr Cs name only. That means he is the only person able to bring 
this complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a timeshare they had taken out with a timeshare provider. Mr C explained 
that he was contacted by a company he thought was his timeshare provider and offered a 
promotional holiday for a hotel in Tenerife at a cost of £100. But in fact the holiday was 
provided by a different business, that Ill call Business M. Mr C says that Business M 
reassured him that it was linked to his timeshare provider.
When on this holiday in April 2017, Mr and Mrs C attended a meeting with someone from 
Business M. This turned out to be a sales meeting at which Mr and Mrs C say they explained 
that they liked their timeshare, but the maintenance fees were expensive. They were offered 
a new type of holiday product that provided credits that could be used in exchange for 
discounted hotels and flights. As part of the deal, Mr and Mrs C understood that Business M 
would take over their timeshare, but they would still be able to use it as part of Business Ms 
credits system. They would also have lower overall maintenance fees.
Mr and Mrs C agreed to take out the product offered and Mr C made payment to Business M 
using his Tesco credit card and then later paid another business (which Ill call Business T) 
by cheque. Mr and Mrs C say both payments were part of the same deal.
Mr and Mrs C say that, after making the credit card payment, and before they paid the 
balance, they had second thoughts and went back to Business M to cancel. They say they 
were told that there was no cooling off period, but Business T would buy back any points 
they bought at a rate of 50 pence per point. Relying on that, they agreed to pay the balance.
In October 2018, Mr and Mrs C found out that Business M had closed down. Further, when 
they tried to book a holiday using their travel credits, the cost of holidays was more than if 
they paid for the same holiday directly, so there was no discount. Finally, Mr and Mrs C said 
that Business M didnt take over their existing timeshare, so they felt the whole deal was a 
scam.
In June 2019, Mr C made a claim to Tesco under s.75 CCA, using the services of a 
professional representative (PR). The claim included a statement from Mr and Mrs C in the 
terms detailed above, plus documents from the time of sale. PR argued that Business M and 
Business T were linked as both contracts had the same contract number.
In January 2020, Tesco responded to Mr Cs claim. Having looked at everything, Tesco 
agreed that something had gone wrong and it made an offer of compensation. It said the 
evidence suggested Business M hadnt taken over Mr and Mrs Cs timeshare as promised, 
so it agreed to return what had been paid to Business M based on its breach of contract. But 
Tesco thought the money paid to Business T was for the travel credits and, as that wasnt 
paid for using the credit card, it wasnt responsible for any of the losses. Tesco considered 
whether the two businesses were linked and accepted they may have been, but it said that 
as there were two different contracts for two different things, under the CCA, it wasnt liable.
Unhappy with the response, PR (on Mr Cs behalf) referred a complaint to our service. On 
the form submitted alongside the complaint, it said that Business M said they would recoup 
monies spent on their existing timeshare and Business T would provide cheaper and better 
holidays, but neither of these things happened.
One of our investigators gave their view on Mr Cs complaint. He said that Business M had 
sold a number of agreements to Mr C, in particular a timeshare relinquishment service and 
some travel credits that were provided by a separate company  these were all sold on the 
same day. He thought, as the amount paid to Business T was described as an outstanding 
balance, there was one overall price for the services offered. In effect the different things 
were sold as a package to Mr and Mrs C.
Our investigator thought there were the right arrangements in place to consider any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by Business M. He thought there was a 
misrepresentation that Mr and Mrs C would be able to sell their credits after three years and 
made a return on what they had paid. He also thought that Business M misrepresented how 
the timeshare relinquishment would happen. So he recommended Tesco pay Mr C a sum 
equivalent to both amounts paid by credit card and by cheque.
Mr C accepted our investigators view. Tesco disagreed. It reiterated that, as Business T 
were not paid using Mr Cs credit card, it didnt think it needed to answer any claim in respect 
of that. Tesco pointed to some of the terms of the agreements that it suggested made clear 
the two businesses were separate and acting under two different agreements. As the parties 
didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
Having considered everything, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. I agreed 
with Tesco that it wasnt responsible for the breaches of the agreement with Business T, as it 
hadnt been paid using Mr Cs credit card. But I also considered whether Business M had 
misrepresented anything to Mr C and, based on the evidence Id seen, I didnt think it had. 
So I issued a provisional decision and asked both parties to comment on it before I issued a 
final decision.
Tesco responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add.
PR responded on Mr Cs behalf. It set out the thigs that were said to Mr C that could amount 
to misrepresentations. They included that the timeshare wasnt cancelled as promised, that 
Mr C couldnt get holidays through the product, that the business closed down so couldnt 
sell and that the credits were worthless. PR also said that the business was set up by 
people in Tenerife to mislead people like they had done with other products they sold. 
Finally, PR thought other cases, similar to Mr Cs, had been upheld in similar circumstances, 
so I should have upheld Mr Cs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
There is no evidence from Business M or Business T, and the only evidence there is from 
the time of sale is from Mr C. He has provided all of the documentation from the time of sale, 
along with his memories. So, when considering this claim, that is the only evidence there is 
available. Im mindful that his memories may not be an accurate representation of the 
precise sales process as memories are imperfect. So, Ive had to weigh all of that up when 
deciding what I think most likely happened. I dont think its unfair to Tesco for me to do this 
 ultimately I must decide the complaint in front of me based on the evidence available.
When considering this complaint, I think its important to set out what I find Mr C agreed to 
and with which business. Ill then consider any legal claims that Tesco needed to consider, 
given the legal relationships between the parties. Finally, Ill consider whether Tescos 
existing offer is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
The available documents
Ive seen a one-page document titled Contract Number: R4906 where Mr and Mrs C have 
signed to confirm details of their existing timeshare. In summary, this appears to set out the 
terms of their timeshare termination. It makes clear that the timeshare would be terminated 
using the services of a legal services partner arranged by Business M. Instructions were 
given to Mr and Mrs C not to communicate in any way with their timeshare provider.
There is also a Business M document that sets out the details of purchase as:
Admin cost for the relinquishment of [Mr and Mrs Cs timeshare]
Enroll in Dial & Exchange FOC
And a payment or £1,950 was made for this.
There is also a letter from Business M stating the Mr and Mrs C were entitled to a four-day 
break within the UK, but I cant see any price was given for this.
There is a letter on Business M headed paper that reads:
Please accept this letter as confirmation that you have the option after 3 years, to 
market and resell your [Business T] credits.
You can do this directly yourselves or we will assist you through our resale network.
We will re-market them for 55% of the [Business T] listed price, however as you own 
the credits, the value you wish to re-market at, is entirely your choice.
Ive seen a document on Business T headed paper dealing with 60,000 Business T credits 
that says the outstanding balance was for £11,000. It explained that payment needed to be 
made to a different, third business, Business N, and gave the account details. 
There were also some Business T Product Essentials that explained how the credits 
worked  this was a one-page document. It makes it clear that the credits could only be used 
at the Business T travel agency and would give a discount up to 70% on most [Business T] 
Holidays, Tours, Car hire and package holidays. It says that the credits are not a timeshare or other holiday ownership product and cant be redeemed for cash. Mr and Mrs C signed to 
say they understood the product.
As well as the documents from the date of sale, there is a letter from Business M to Mr and 
Mrs C from May 2017 saying that the balance payment of £11,000 was received into the 
Business N account and that the Business T membership package would be sent out to 
them.
Finally, Ive seen a letter from a claims management company (CMC) from November 2017 
stating that Business M had passed over Mr and Mrs Cs details and that the CMC would 
take steps to terminate the existing timeshare. And in January 2018, the CMC wrote to Mr 
and Mrs C to say it had done everything it needed to do to terminate the timeshare 
agreement.
Payments made
Mr Cs Tesco credit card statement shows that two payments totalling £1,912.18 were made 
to Business M on 25 April 2017, alongside non-sterling transaction fees of £52.57.
On 22 May 2017 a cheque was paid out of a bank account for £11,000.
I dont think this is in dispute, but I find it more likely than not that these payments related to 
the agreements detailed above.
What were the agreements?
I think Mr and Mrs C contracted with Business M to take steps to terminate their existing 
timeshare agreement. They were also enrolled into Dial & Exchange FOC, although its 
unclear what that was. It also looks like Mr and Mrs C got a four-day break in the UK as part 
of the deal, but its not clear what that break was. 
Mr and Mrs C also purchased travel credits from Business T. I find this was arranged by 
Business M, most likely acting as agents for Business T, as I cant see that Mr and Mrs C 
had any dealings directly with Business T. I also find this agreement was entered into on the 
same day and was sold alongside the things Business M offered.
Was Tesco jointly responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation?
Section 75 CCA states that in certain circumstances, when a debtor has a claim against a 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, theyll have a like claim 
against the creditor. So here, Mr C (the debtor) was asking Tesco (the creditor) to answer 
his claims as set out above.
But this doesnt apply to every claim Mr C may have. Tesco is only responsible for claims 
when there is a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place. This is set out more 
fully in s.11(b) and s.12(b) CCA, but in short, there have to be arrangements in place so that 
the supplier of goods or services is paid using the credit card. In Mr Cs case, he paid 
Business M directly with his credit card and its not in dispute that Tesco could be held jointly 
responsible for any claim of a breach of the contract with Business M that arose from that 
transaction or of a misrepresentation that led Mr C into entering into agreements with 
Business M.
However, I dont think Tesco had to answer any claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by Business T. That was because anything supplied by Business T was 
outside of the arrangements between Mr C, Business M and Tesco. Under the CCA, its possible Tesco would have to answer a claim if it could be shown Businesses M and T were 
associates (s.184 and s.187 CCA). But Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that was the 
case. That means that complaints about breaches of the agreement with Business T cant be 
considered under a s.75 CCA claim. Those include PRs concerns that Mr and Mrs C 
couldnt get holidays using the Business T agreement, that Business T closed down so they 
couldnt sell their credits and that the credits were worthless.
Did Tesco properly consider the claims?
Tesco accepted that there had been a breach of contract by Business M and offered to pay 
back what Mr C had paid on his credit card  that was on the basis that his existing 
timeshare had not been terminated. But Tesco said that it would not pay anything in respect 
of the payment to Business T. For the reasons set out above, I agree that Tesco are not 
responsible for any breaches of Business Ts agreement. 
The damages normally paid for a breach of contract are to put the person claiming in the 
position they would be, had no such breach taken place. In this case, that would be to put 
Mr C in the position he would have been had Business M done what it needed to under the 
agreement. Its not entirely clear what it had agreed to do  for example, whether 
Business M had guaranteed the timeshare would be terminated or just that it would appoint 
a CMC to try to get termination. Also, Im not sure what effect the non-termination had on 
Mr C as no further information has been given. But looking at things in the round, and as I 
cant see that Mr C got anything at all from the agreement, I cant see that Tescos offer to 
refund what was paid is an unfair way to settle this part of the complaint. For the avoidance 
of doubt, I dont think any breach of contract by Business M (such as failing to cancel the 
timeshare) meant Tesco needed to refund what was paid to Business T.
However, its possible that Tesco might need to do something further if there was a valid 
claim for misrepresentation. The normal way to remedy any such claim would be recission of 
the contract entered into and damages to put Mr C in the position he would have been in had 
the misrepresentation not been made. So, its possible that, if misrepresentations were made 
to Mr C by Business M, damages would need to cover the payments made to both Business 
M and Business T, if it could be shown he only entered the agreement with Business T due 
to those misrepresentations.
For there to be a misrepresentation there needed to be an untrue statement of fact or law 
made by one party to another, which induces the party receiving the statement to enter a 
contract, thereby causing them loss. A statement of opinion can be a misrepresentation if the 
opinion amounts to a statement of fact and it can be proved that the person who made it 
didnt hold that opinion or could not reasonably have held it.
The alleged misrepresentations have not been set out clearly, but Ive looked at everything 
to see what I think they might have been. Having considered each one, I dont think there is 
sufficient evidence to conclude any misrepresentation was made.
Mr C said that Business M told him it was linked to his existing timeshare supplier. Not much 
detail about this is provided, but Im not sure whether this is being alleged as a 
misrepresentation or a misunderstanding. But it appears that, by the time Mr C agreed to 
take out the services offered, he was aware that Business M wasnt linked to his timeshare 
provider. I say that because he was aware that Business M used a legal services partner to 
cancel the timeshare and he was told not to speak to his timeshare provider  neither of 
those things fit with the two businesses being linked. So, I dont think any misrepresentation 
about the nature of the relationship between Business M and his timeshare provider was 
something that would have caused him to take out the agreements.Mr C says he was told that the credits offered by Business T could be exchanged for 
holidays and at a discount, but when he came to use them he found that the cost was still 
more than buying holidays on the open market. Ive not seen evidence comparing the actual 
holidays offered by Business T and what was available on the open market, so Im not able 
to say the cost was different for two identical holidays. But Im not able to say the product 
didnt work in the way expected  that discounts were offered on the cost Business T 
normally offered to its customers. The discounted price may still have been higher than what 
was available elsewhere, but I cant say no discount was offered.
Mr C says his timeshare would have been taken over and then been able to have been used 
through Business Ms system and with lower annual maintenance fees. Ive not seen 
anything to show that the holidays available through the timeshare provider were not also 
available through Business M (or Business T). I also note that one of the documents signed 
at the time of sale states I/We understand that the Disposal of our timeshare is a 
termination and is not resold in anyway. I cant see that Mr C was asked to assign his 
timeshare rights to Business M, so I dont think the documents fit with what Mr C says he 
was told that the timeshare would be taken over. Further, I cant see that there was any 
obligation to pay ongoing fees to Business M or Business T, so I dont think it was untrue to 
say that annual fees were lower.
I cant see that Mr C has alleged that he was told there would be a cooling off period that 
turned out to be untrue, rather after he had already agreed to purchase he was told there 
was no such a period. So, I dont think anything said about that could be a 
misrepresentation. Similarly, if Mr C was told Business Ts credits would be bought back at a 
later date at a guaranteed price, his evidence is that such a comment was made after he had 
already agreed to purchase, so again I dont think it could amount to a misrepresentation.1 
When bringing the complaint to our service, PR said that Mr C was told Business M would 
recoup monies paid to his existing timeshare. But that wasnt something Mr C said at the 
time the original claim was made and none of the documents from the time of sale talk about 
Mr C making a claim against his timeshare provider. So, I cant say that such a 
representation was made.
I cant see that Mr C was given any assurance about how his timeshare relinquishment 
would take place that could amount to a misrepresentation. So, having considered 
everything, I dont think there is enough to suggest Business M made any 
misrepresentations that Tesco might be responsible for under s.75 CCA. It follows, I dont 
think Tesco needs to pay anything on top of what it has already offered to pay. 
PR has said the company was set up by people in Tenerife to mislead people like they had 
done with other products they sold  its not clear whether PR are referring to Business M, 
Business T or both. But even if I accept that was the case, Mr C still needs to provide 
evidence of an actionable misrepresentation by Business M for me to be say Tesco needs to 
pay the compensation he seeks under s.75 CCA. And for the reasons Ive explained, I cant 
say that was the case. 
Finally, Ive thought about what PR has said that other, similar complaints have been upheld. 
But I must consider each complaint on its own facts and circumstances. Having done that, I 
dont think Tesco needs to do anything further to resolve Mr Cs complaint.
1 I also note that Mr C had a document from the time of sale saying that Business M would remarket 
credits after three years at 55% of the listed price. This doesnt fit with there being a guaranteed price 
or buyback scheme.My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman