DRN-3762789
The complaint
Mr R complains that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) didnt provide him 
with suitable advice when he transferred his occupational defined benefit (DB) pension 
scheme to a personal pension arrangement. He says because of this, and due to the poor 
investment performance, he was forced to transfer to another provider resulting in an exit 
penalty charge, which he wants SJP to refund.
What happened
In 2017 SJP advised Mr R to transfer his DB pension scheme benefits to a personal pension 
arrangement. Amongst other things, the advice paperwork from the time records that Mr R 
was a resident in the UK for tax purposes and that he didnt expect his tax status to change. 
Mr R had previous investment experience in both equities and bonds and his attitude to risk 
was assessed as Medium. SJP recommended that Mr Rs pension benefits should be 
invested in a managed fund portfolio.
Mr R accepted SJPs recommendation and the transfer duly took place.
In 2018 following a review of Mr Rs pension plan and investment objectives, its recorded 
that Mr R wanted to take a more aggressive approach with his retirement funds. Mr Rs 
attitude to risk was increased to Upper-Medium and SJP recommended that Mr Rs fund 
selection was re-balanced  it recommended three High risk funds, five Upper-Medium risk 
funds and five Medium risk funds.
According to SJP, further fund switches took place in 2019 and 2020 before later in 2020 
Mr R moved his pension from SJP to another provider. 
In September 2021 Mr R complained to SJP. He said he was unhappy about paying an exit 
penalty when he moved his pension given the investment struggled to make any return at all 
despite having a medium to aggressive investment approach.
In December 2021 Mr R brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
because SJP hadnt provided its final response.
On 10 December 2021 SJP issued its final response saying that it didnt uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. In summary it said that the early withdrawal charge was clearly set out in the 
advice paperwork at the time and that Mr R had signed a declaration to say the report had 
been explained to him. It also said that the early withdrawal charge had been discussed with 
Mr R during communication with the adviser prior to him transferring his pension in 2020 and 
they confirmed the charge couldnt be waived. 
In terms of the investment performance, SJP provided a detailed explanation about the 
performance it had achieved and what benchmarks it used. In summary it said performance 
couldnt be guaranteed but that it was satisfied Mr Rs concerns were not as a result of the 
advice he received.
Mr R asked us to consider his complaint. In doing so Mr R also said his complaint was about 
the advice he received  he said he was working overseas at the time of the advice and SJP 
failed to consider or explain the tax benefits associated with this. One of our investigators 
looked at all of this and they didnt uphold the complaint. In summary they said that the 
advice paperwork recorded Mr Rs address as being in the UK. And while Mr R said that the 
adviser was aware he was living overseas, this didnt mean an overseas pension was 
suitable for him. They said they wouldnt expect SJP to have recommended an overseas 
plan unless it was Mr Rs intention to retire overseas and there wasnt any evidence of this 
from the time.
They went on to explain that they couldnt consider a complaint about investment 
performance. But that in considering the suitability of the investments recommended to Mr R, 
they considered it was in line with his medium attitude to risk. Finally they said the early 
withdrawal charge was applied in line with the policy terms and conditions, which Mr R 
agreed to at the time, so they didnt think it was fair for SJP to refund it.
Mr R disagreed. In summary he said SJP were aware his move overseas was permanent 
and that he was no longer a resident in the UK. He said he was looking for a vehicle for his 
pension which took full advantage of his situation. He said SJP didnt do that and he was 
forced to move elsewhere and paid the exit charge in doing so. He said the exit fee 
shouldve been waived  he maintains he was given the wrong advice for his situation. Mr R 
also provided evidence that he was a non-UK resident at the time of the advice.
Following our investigator sharing Mr Rs evidence with SJP, it said that it did have evidence 
Mr R was residing overseas at the time of the advice. But it said it didnt believe this changed 
the suitability of the advice because there was no evidence that Mr R had plans to retire 
overseas  so its advice for a UK-to-UK transfer was correct. 
Because Mr R remains dissatisfied, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know Mr R will be disappointed, Ive decided to not uphold this 
complaint or make any award in Mr Rs favour. Ill explain why.
Suitability of advice
Mr Rs initial complaint concerned what he deemed to be the poor performance of his 
pension fund investment and the exit fee he had to pay when he moved his pension from 
SJP. But it appears the crux of Mr Rs complaint relates to the advice he received at the 
time. Mr R is not complaining about the advice to transfer out of his DB scheme per se. His 
complaint is that he wanted an international based investment - not a UK Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP). Mr R says that he was an overseas resident and had been since 
2015, so he considers an international based arrangement was suitable for him as he 
wanted things to be as tax efficient as possible given his non-UK resident status and 
circumstances at the time. 
While I can see that the advice paperwork records Mr R as being a UK taxpayer at the time 
of the advice and this wasnt going to change, SJP now accepts, as Mr R has shown, that he 
was residing abroad at the time of the advice. 
So does this mean SJPs advice was unsuitable? I dont think it does.The international based pension Mr R is referring to and what he believes SJP shouldve 
advised him to transfer his pension benefits to is known as a Qualifying Recognised 
Overseas Pension Scheme or QROPS. But a QROPS is only appropriate in specific and 
limited circumstances  typically where a UK citizen has emigrated permanently and intends 
to retire abroad having built up a UK pension fund. In this situation, they may not want to 
receive their pension income in pounds sterling, which would be subject to currency 
fluctuations if they are spending in a different currency.
In Mr Rs case, while I accept he was working abroad at the time of the advice, Ive not seen 
anything from the evidence presented to me that he was intending to emigrate permanently 
and retire abroad. Furthermore Mr R has said that he is unable to retire in the country he 
resides and works in. For this reason, and because its likely a transfer to a QROPS 
wouldve attracted a 25% tax charge given Mr Rs circumstances at the time (he was living 
outside of the European Economic Area (EEA)), I dont think SJP did anything wrong in not 
recommending Mr R transfer his DB pension benefits to an overseas pension  I think a UK-
based wrapper or platform was appropriate at the time.
Investment performance
I understand Mr R was disappointed with the investment performance of his pension fund in 
the three years he held it with SJP. But I cant see that Mr R was given any form of 
guarantee as to the return he would receive on his investment. I also think based on what 
was documented at the time about Mr Rs previous investment experience, he likely 
understood the concept of investment risk and that SJP was not in a position to guarantee 
the returns on his pension investment. So I dont think it is appropriate for me to consider 
Mr Rs complaint solely on the basis he believes it shouldve produced a better return.
That said, I have considered whether the investment recommendation was suitable given 
Mr Rs attitude to risk. SJPs advice paperwork records that Mr R was deemed to be a 
medium risk investor. Again, because of Mr Rs previous experience in investing, I think he 
wouldve likely understood the different categorisation of risk. So given this and his 
circumstances at the time, I think this is the level of risk that Mr R was prepared to take with 
his investment. And looking at the investment recommendation SJP made, which was an 
investment in a managed fund portfolio, I consider this was in line with Mr Rs medium risk 
attitude and so was suitable.
I can see that in 2018 following a financial review, its documented that Mr R wanted to take 
a more aggressive investment approach with his investment and his attitude to risk 
increased from Medium to Upper Medium. As a result SJP recommended, and Mr R 
accepted, a series of investment changes / fund switches to reflect his increased risk 
appetite. And this included investments in emerging markets and smaller companies funds. 
In my view, the recommended fund changes and the resulting investment fund portfolio was 
broadly in line with the level of risk Mr R indicated he was prepared to take and so appears 
suitable.
So, overall Im satisfied Mr Rs complaint about the performance of his investment is not as a 
result of unsuitable investment advice.
Early withdrawal / exit fee
Turning to Mr Rs complaint about the exit or early withdrawal fee he paid when he moved 
his pension from SJP, Im satisfied this fee was set out clearly in the advice paperwork Mr R 
received at the time. I can also see that in a series of emails between Mr R and SJP prior to Mr R moving his pension away in 2020, the subject of the early withdrawal fee was raised 
and discussed. I can also see here that Mr R was told he was not charged any set up 
charges when he transferred his DB pension benefits and so the early withdrawal fee would 
not be waived. It appears to me from what followed that Mr R accepted this.
Nevertheless, it was ultimately Mr Rs decision to move his pension away from SJP and SJP 
applied the early exit fee in line with the terms and conditions of the plan. So, for these 
reasons I dont think it is fair to direct SJP to refund the early exit fee to Mr R.
In conclusion, Im satisfied SJP has not done anything substantially wrong here, so I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  so I make no award in 
Mr Rs favour.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman