DRN-2322918
The complaint
U, a limited company, complains that Handelsbanken Plc has closed its business account. 
U complains about the service received from Handelsbanken; in particular the way that the 
Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) has been dealt with and the fact that not all calls 
between the parties have been provided to this Service. U is represented by Mr Y.
What happened
U had been banking with Handelsbanken for a number of years and in that time has built up 
a good relationship. 
In September 2019 the director of U, Mr Y, was attempting to make a payment online. 
Unfortunately the payment did not go through and so Mr Y contacted the bank to try and 
resolve the issue. Mr Y was under some time pressure at the time of the call. Mr Y says that 
the staff were unhelpful and were not able to provide a fix for the issue and he was under 
time pressure to make the payment. During the course of that phone call Mr Y became very 
frustrated towards to the call centre operatives. Mr Y attempted to contact his account 
manager but was not able to get through to him since it was the weekend. 
The bank looked into what happened over that weekend and advised Mr Y that it would be 
closing the account. Mr Y raised a complaint with the bank regarding its decision to close the 
account, the staff handling of the account, and the issues he had been experiencing.
The bank looked into the complaint and did not uphold it. It said that it had made a 
commercial decision to close the account and did not need to provide any further information 
in respect of that decision. It also didnt uphold the complaint made regarding how the staff 
dealt with Mr Y and said that its staff had acted appropriately. 
U did not agree with the outcome of the banks investigation and referred the complaint to 
this service. Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that 
under the terms and conditions Handelsbanken could close an account if it gave at least two 
months notice as it had done here. The decision to close an account was a commercial one 
and Handelsbanken did not have to explain it further to U. She thought the bank had acted 
reasonably. 
U did not agree and felt that the investigator had missed some of the concerns raised. In 
particular the fact that U was unable to open an account elsewhere. The investigator asked 
Mr Y to provide her with evidence that he was unable to open an account elsewhere. Mr Y 
explained that he went into the branch of a number of high street banks and was unable to 
open an appropriate business account. 
Since U did not agree with the investigators view the matter has been passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how frustrating and worrying this situation has been for Mr Y on behalf of U 
especially given the issues with trying to open a similar business account elsewhere. I also 
acknowledge the impact that the account closure will have on U. 
Account closure 
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way which 
complies with the terms and conditions of that account. 
In deciding cases such as these its important to note that my role here is to see whether 
Handelsbanken have acted fairly and reasonably, in line with their terms and conditions. 
So my starting point is the terms and conditions of the account held by U that would have 
been agreed at the outset of opening the account. Within the terms and conditions is the 
following;
 
if we at any time decide to terminate the whole of any part of the Agreementwe 
will give you at least two months notice of such termination  
U was given at least two months notice of its intention to close the account and therefore 
has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account which U agreed to when it was 
opened. Handelsbanken doesnt have to consult U or give any specific reason. The bank 
made a commercial decision to close the account and thats not something that this service 
would generally interfere with. 
As a result of U having difficulty in opening an account elsewhere I can see from the file that 
the bank have agreed to extend the time to close the account to 31 December 2020 to allow 
U enough time to find another provider. I think that this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
I recognise that this has been frustrating for U and can understand why U feels that 
Handelsbanken should take into account the excellent relationship that it had with the bank 
over a ten-year period. But Handelsbanken has demonstrated that it followed the normal 
review process in coming to its decision and I dont have a reasonable basis to require it to 
do anything more.
Data subject access request 
I note from the file that Mr Y, on behalf of U, would like this service to make a DSAR request 
to the bank in order to obtain all of the information that it holds. This is not something that the 
service is able to do. Mr Y has since made the request himself and feels that he has not 
received all of the information held on him from the bank. The investigator correctly directed 
Mr Y to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) as the relevant body to deal with 
complaints about data protection and DSARs. It is not within the remit of this service to 
decide whether data protection law has been breached by Handelsbanken. Mr Y should get 
in contact with the ICO if he wishes for this to be considered.
Recorded telephone calls 
My Y is concerned that not all of the calls to the bank have been recorded. Handelsbanken 
have explained that not all calls are recorded which is the reason that calls between the 
account manager and U have not been provided for the purpose of this complaint. I am 
satisfied that this is a reasonable explanation as to why there appear to be some calls 
missing. In any event, on balance, me having access to those calls would not change my decision on the outcome of the complaint since the bank has made a business decision to 
close the account. 
I note that Mr Y has referred to certain members of staff lying about him and him not having 
the opportunity to defend himself against such lies. I acknowledge that Mr Y feels very 
strongly about this. Ultimately given that Handelsbanken is entitled to do give notice and 
close the account I dont think it would make any difference to the outcome of his complaint 
about the account closure.
Mr Y has referred to being advised that U was banned for life from banking with 
Handelsbanken. Unfortunately for the reasons details above I dont have access to all of the 
telephone calls between Mr Y and the bank. I accept that Mr Y understood that his business 
was banned from banking with Handelsbanken. I have seen no evidence of U being banned 
for life or anything to suggest that U cannot apply to bank with Handelsbanken again in the 
future.  
I can see that Mr Y is very frustrated that the bank have chosen to close the business 
account and I can understand why. Its clear that U is having difficulty in opening a similar 
account elsewhere and I am sympathetic to the situation it finds itself in. But my role here is 
to determine this complaint based on what, in my opinion, is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Having looked at all the evidence I cant say that Handelsbanken has done 
anything wrong. I am unable to compel the bank to keep U has a customer. This is entirely 
its decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman