DRN-1614233
 
The complaint 
Mr Is complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by PSA Finance UK Limited 
(PSA) at the end of a car lease.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr I acquired his car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of his agreement held Mr I responsible for returning the car in a good 
condition;
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
leasing Association (BVRLA);
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. I understand that Mr I no longer disputes these 
charges but for completeness I would say Im persuaded that all of the damage is 
beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear.
Mr I still disputes the charge for the missing service stamp and I understand his 
frustration as its clear the service was completed. But I dont think his complaint can 
be fairly considered against PSA as it wasnt their mistake not to stamp the book. 
The industry guidance from the BVRLA explains theres an expectation the service 
book will be stamped and a charge is fair if it isnt. I think its likely that when the car 
was taken to auction without a service stamp it would have sold for less than it would 
have with one. I understand that Mr I was paying for a service plan but I dont think 
PSA had to accept this as proof the service took place.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about PSA Finance UK Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman