DRN-1840317
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) incorrectly reported details of a previously 
settled debt on his credit file. 
What happened
In 2010 Mr T entered into a Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS) after experiencing financial 
difficulties. The DAS was made up of an outstanding BoS joint loan account that Mr T held, 
as well as other debts with other creditors. This DAS finished in November 2018.
In April 2019 Mr S was contacted by a debt collection agency on behalf of BoS in reference 
to a satisfied debt. Mr T complained and BoS apologised, saying it had mistakenly not 
removed his name from the joint loan account when his DAS was completed. 
A few weeks later Mr T was sent a further letter saying the joint loan account debt had been 
passed to another debt collection agency. He complained again to BoS, and it apologised 
and paid him compensation of £174, which he accepted.
In May 2019 Mr T became aware there was an entry on his credit file for a BoS loan account 
which was showing an outstanding balance. BoS looked into this and said itd made an error 
by reporting a balance on the account. It corrected the record from Mr Ts credit file and 
offered him £125 as compensation for any further distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr T says hed tried to apply for a loan around this time and it was declined. He feels BoS is 
responsible and said he wasnt happy with its offer of compensation.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. He found BoS had deleted 
the record of the loan entirely which wasnt the correct step to take but this had been to
Mr Ts benefit, including an increase in his credit score. The investigator felt the offer of £125 
taking into account the impact and previous payments for mistakes was fair, so he said BoS 
didnt have to do anything further. 
Mr T disagreed, saying the compensation offered didnt reflect the distress caused. He said 
BoS had given him conflicting information about his name being taken off the loan in May 
2019. And he highlighted a previous case our service considered where compensation 
awarded was higher than £125. As agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute BoS has made mistakes in relation to Mr Ts records. And in this case Ive 
been asked to consider BoS actions in relation to his previous loan incorrectly appearing 
with an outstanding balance on his credit file. In doing so, Ive thought about the impact of 
this mistake and the steps BoS has taken to put things right.From what Ive seen, Mr Ts name was removed from the loan account with BoS in May 
2019 as a result of him raising a complaint. And it has now deleted the record of the loan in 
question from Mr Ts credit file. And its clear to me this wasnt the correct action to take. 
When a DAS is completed, its noted that the debt has been paid off and is then considered 
settled, however the entry remains on a credit file for six years. So the entry for this BoS 
account shouldve remained on Mr Ts credit file for six years from the date he settled the 
DAS. 
But by removing this entry from his credit file entirely, Mr T has reported his credit rating has 
significantly improved. So while Im not persuaded this deletion was the right action for BoS 
to take, it seems it has impacted Mr T favourably  particularly as the entry shouldve 
remained on his credit file until 2024.
Mr T says hed previously applied for a loan which was rejected, which he attributes to BoS 
actions in relation to his credit file. But Mr T hasnt provided any evidence of when he applied 
for this loan or any details about it. So I have little to go on. 
I would highlight that lenders take many factors into account, which would include Mr Ts 
DAS. In the circumstances and taking to account what Ive been given to consider, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to hold BoS accountable for any such application being declined 
but I appreciate why Mr T may feel this way in light of the number of mistakes made.
Mr T has referred to other cases our service has considered. Ive looked at his complaint on 
its own merits, and the impact it has had on him. I understand that Mr T was inconvenienced 
by having to spend time and effort dealing with this credit report issue, and I can appreciate 
that it wouldve been frustrating. But the impact on him seems limited as the resolution has 
improved his credit rating, and BoS corrected the mistake soon after he raised the concern. 
Taking everything into account Im satisfied that its offer of £125 for this mistake  alongside 
taking steps to correct the file  is fair and reasonable. And it follows Im not directing BoS to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc has made an offer to pay £125. I conclude that this offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Bank of Scotland plc should pay
Mr T £125 if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman