DRN-4491951
The complaint
Miss K complains Santander UK Plc gave her wrong information about being able to return a
payment that had been sent to her bank account.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings to both parties on 21 November 2023 setting out why I 
thought Miss Ks complaint should be upheld in part and invited both parties to provide any 
further submissions in reply to my provisional decision by 5 December 2023. 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision together with my 
provisional findings. The background and my provisional findings are copied below and now 
form part of this final decision. 
Background 
Miss K had made a successful insurance claim and an instalment of the claim payment was
made into her current account (Account 1) with Santander. The payment was for £2,800 and
it was paid into Account 1 on 25 January 2023.
At the time, Account 1 was in arrears of £1,745.84 so the claim payment cleared the arrears,
leaving a positive balance of £1,054.16.
Miss K was unhappy the claim payment had been used to clear the arrears on Account 1 as
the £2,800 was money needed to make repairs to her property. Miss K wanted the funds to
be returned to the insurer.
There were exchanges between Miss K and Santander on 25 January 2023. The outcome of
these exchanges was that a Santander agent told Miss K on the phone that Santander
would return the payment to the sender and it would take around 7 days. The agent told
Miss K she would then need to contact the sender and give them the correct bank details
she wanted the payment to be made to.
Miss K called Santander on 31 January 2023 as she had not heard anything and a complaint
was raised.
Santander concluded Miss K had been given wrong information by their agent on 25 January
2023 as returning the funds as they had described to Miss K was not a process which was
available. The option to Miss K would have been to either return the funds herself by
transferring them from her account, or asking the sender to recall the funds  a process that
could take up to 20 business days.
Miss Ks insurer confirmed they have 24 hours to recall their payments after they have been
released.
By the time Santanders error came to light, 24 hours had passed since the payment was
made so it was not possible for Miss K to ask her insurer to recall the payment. I understand
Miss K was also prevented from being able to return the payment herself as she did not
have the available funds in the account given her overdraft had been removed.
Miss Ks overdraft had been removed on 1 August 2022.
Our Investigator considered Miss Ks complaint and said Santander should pay Miss K £200
for having given her wrong information about their process on 25 January 2023. However,
the Investigator did not think Santander should do anything further.
Santander accepted the Investigators findings, but Miss K did not. Miss K said she had
relied on what Santander had told her so she did not contact her insurer to recall the
payment. Miss K says that she has lost £1,745.84 because the insurers payment cleared
the overdraft. Miss K is seeking the return of £1,745.84 to resolve this matter.
As a resolution could not be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
Provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander have accepted that they gave Miss K wrong information about their processes
and therefore what they offered to do for Miss K was not possible.
As Santander have accepted theyve done something wrong here, what is left for me to
consider is what is a fair and reasonable way to put this right as far as it is reasonably
possible to do so.
Miss K says that but for Santanders wrong information she would have approached her
insurer to recall the payment and therefore she would have had the full claim payment funds
available to her.
Having reviewed the available submissions I think it is more likely than not that Miss K would
have approached her insurer to do this if shed been given correct information by Santander.
Miss K had spoken with Santander on the same day as the payment into Account 1 had
been made, so she would have been able to contact her insurer within the 24-hour window
to ask them to recall the payment. Miss K has also been consistent in saying that she wished
that payment to be returned to her insurer. So I think its fair to say Miss K more likely than
not would have tried to get the funds back to her insurer.
At this time neither party have been able to confirm if recalling the funds would have been
successful. This is something Miss Ks insurer would have had to request on time, and
Santander would have had to agree to releasing the funds when Miss K did not have the full
funds available in her account.
However, having reviewed all the submissions I do not need to decide this as I do not
believe Miss K is worse off because of Santanders error and Ill explain why.
To begin with I do not agree that Miss K should simply have £1,745.84 returned to her as
she has asked. To be clear, the funds in question cleared Miss Ks overdraft and this was
money Miss K owed to Santander. So I do not think it would be fair that Miss K should have
these funds returned to her and her overdraft cleared.
At the time of these events Miss K had two different types of Santander current accounts Account 1 (into which the claim payment in question was made) and Account 2. As part of
the submissions I have reviewed the payments made in and out of Account 1 and Account 2.
Ive seen the £2,800 payment made by Miss Ks insurer go into Account 1 on 25 January
2023. I have also seen that a payment for £2,986.19 from Miss Ks insurer was paid into
Account 2 on 31 January 2023 (the same reference is used for both payments suggesting
they relate to the same insurance claim). The payment into Account 2 increased the balance
on Account 2 to £24,845.07.
While I do not know whether Miss Ks insurer would have successfully recalled the funds
from Account 1, I think its fair to say Miss K (given the later insurance payment was made
into Account 2) would most likely have requested the first payment of £2,800 into Account 2
as well if the funds had been successfully recalled.
At this point I think it would be reasonable to note that it was not Santanders error that the
£2,800 was paid into Account 1. This would have been an arrangement between Miss K and
her insurer as to where those funds should be paid. Not Santander. So the initial error of the
funds being paid into Account 1 was not Santanders fault.
On 25 January 2023 its been established Miss Ks Account 1 was overdrawn. Leading up to
these events Miss K had been in discussion with Santander about repaying the overdraft
which had been withdrawn on 1 August 2022.
In comparison, on 25 January 2023 Miss K had a high balance of funds in Account 2 -
around £23,000.
In the circumstances, I think its fair to say Miss K had funds in Account 2 that could have
been used to cover the difference between the £2,800 and the amount of overdraft that was
cleared (£1,745.84) so that she could sort out the repairs to her property. Account 2 also
appears to have been used for non-essential spending, so I think its reasonable to say this
was money Miss K had access to and was available to her.
I can see in the history of transactions provided that Miss K in fact transferred £1,000 from
Account 2 into Account 1 on 7 February 2023. This took the balance on Account 1 from
£1,054.16 (which was the balance after the overdraft had been cleared) to £2,054.16. Miss K
then subsequently withdrew £2,000 cash from Account 1 on 7 February 2023.
Before 25 January 2023 the communications between Santander and Miss K (in relation to
Account 1) show that Santander were asking Miss K to repay the overdraft. Several
discussions took place in terms of making an arrangement to pay the outstanding balance.
Miss K was also reminded on several occasions that should the overdraft not be cleared or if
an arrangement was broken then the account would be defaulted and the debt possibly
passed to a debt collection agency.
As the overdraft was cleared, Account 1 was not defaulted. As Im sure Miss K is aware, a
default on someones credit file remains there for 6 years and can impact an individuals
ability to obtain credit. So it was not insignificant that Miss Ks account was able to avoid a
default.
Taking everything into account, while Santander did give Miss K incorrect information about
their process, and I think Miss K more likely than not would have tried for her insurer to recall
the payment, I dont think Miss K is worse off because of what happened. I do not know what
would have happened if the insurer had tried to recall the payment from Santander, but I
think its fair to say that Miss K would still have found herself in broadly the same position as
she is in now. Miss K had funds available to her that could cover the difference of £1,745.84from the claim payment of £2,800 and she would still have had to repay her overdraft to
ultimately avoid the account being defaulted.
Santander have accepted that their incorrect information caused Miss K an inconvenience
and some upset here and I think the offer of £200 to recognise this is fair in the
circumstances. As I noted earlier, it would be unfair to hold Santander responsible for the
original error of where the payment was sent to. And it would also be unfair for Miss K to
have her overdraft repaid and receive a further £1,745.84 as she has requested.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Miss K responded to my provisional decision to say that she accepted it. Miss K provided no 
further submissions or evidence for me to consider. Santander also replied to my provisional 
decision. Santander confirmed they had nothing further to add and accepted my provisional 
findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
As both parties replied before the deadline in my provisional decision I am now in a position 
to issue my final findings. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has offered me anything further to consider I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So for the reasons Ive given above, I 
think £200 is fair to recognise the inconvenience and upset caused by Santander wrongly 
informing Miss K about their processes.
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should pay Miss K £200. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Miss Ks complaint is upheld in part and 
Santander UK Plc should pay Miss K £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 December 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman