DRN-2312401
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc started a three-months payment holiday earlier than 
hed requested. 
What happened
Mr S applied online for a payment holiday in early April 2020. Santander agreed and 
confirmed this in writing. Santander wrote to Mr S again in early June 2020 saying the 
payment holiday had ended. Mr S queried this as he expected the deferral to be for April, 
May and June. Mr S is also unhappy that Santander transferred him to its solicitor when he 
called to discuss the payment deferral, which the solicitor couldnt help with.
Santander says it made an error when it set the three months payment holiday to start from 
March. However, it said it only received a part payment for March. It capitalised the unpaid 
amount as part of the payment holiday and if it reversed this Mr Ss account would be in a 
worse position. It said Mr S could ask for a further three months payment deferral. And it 
paid £50 compensation. 
Our investigator said Santander had in fact given Mr S what hed asked for. Mr S was paying 
his mortgage in arrears  making each payment the month after it was due. So the payment 
he would have made in April (but for the payment holiday) was actually due in March. Our 
investigator said this had caused confusion, and Mr Ss worry and stress might have been 
avoided if Santander had explained this better. He said Santander should pay £100 (£50 in 
addition to the £50 already paid) for this.
Mr S didnt agree, saying he wasnt happy about the way hed been treated. He said this was 
especially upsetting due to the loss of a close family member at that time. He also wanted to 
resolve any issues relating to the arrears and his contractual monthly payments. Mr S said 
he wanted real compensation and £100 is only a token.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S applied for a payment holiday on 2 April 2020. He expected the payment holiday to be 
for April, May and June. However, Santander started the three months payment holiday from 
the payment due at the end of March. So it ended with the payment due at the end of May 
2020. 
Santander says it made errors here. So I have to consider what it should do to put matters 
right. In doing so, Ive taken the following into account.
When Mr S applied for the payment holiday Santander had only received part of the 
payment due on 28 March 2020. The unpaid amount was capitalised as part of the payment 
holiday. Santander said reversing this would put Mr Ss account into a worse position as he 
didnt make the payment due in March in full. 
Ive considered what Mr Ss intentions were when he applied for the payment holiday. Most 
likely, he wanted not to make payments in April, May and June. The way Santander set up 
the payment holiday achieved this, because Mr S was paying his mortgage a month in 
arrears. 
Santander said Mr S could apply for a further payment holiday. Mr S said he didnt want to 
do this. However, I think it was right for Santander to tell him this was a possibility. It wouldnt 
have known if Mr S was in a position to make the payment due at the end of June 2020.
Mr S didnt apply for a further payment holiday, and said he didnt want this. I think its 
reasonable to assume he wasnt caused hardship by the payment holiday ending before the 
payment due in June 2020. (Im not commenting here on Mr Ss circumstances generally, 
only on the effect of the payment holiday ending sooner than hed expected.)
Santander transferred Mr S to its solicitors when he called about the payment holiday. This 
was wrong: while the solicitors did deal with Mr Ss account, they couldnt help him with the 
payment holiday.
The situation here was confusing. Mr S made contractual monthly payments in arrears, the 
DSS made payments into the account on his behalf  which continued through the payment 
holiday  and Mr S also made additional payments towards his arrears. Added to this, the 
payment holiday was, in effect, backdated. I dont think Mr S could have understood what 
had happened from Santanders final response letter. 
Mr S has told us his concerns about the account more generally  about his arrears, the lack 
of clarity about what payments he needs to make and whether Santander will take 
enforcement action. As our investigator has explained, I cant look into these issues here as 
they werent part of the complaint that was raised with Santander and brought to us. 
Putting things right
Overall, I think the way the payment holiday was set up suited what Mr S wanted to achieve. 
I dont think he was put into a worse position as a result of the payment holiday being set up 
from the payment due in March 2020, rather than from the payment due in April 2020.
Santander did make an error when it transferred Mr S to its solicitors. And it should have 
given Mr S clearer information about what had happened. Ive also taken into account what 
Mr S has told us about his personal circumstances. Overall, I think compensation of £100 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to pay £50 to Mr S, in 
addition to the £50 its already paid.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman