DRN-1908310
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy about charges that have been applied to her Capital One (Europe) plc 
credit card account.
What happened
Mrs C feels it is unfair that she has been charged late fees. The date the payment was due 
fell on a weekend. She says she arranged for payment to be sent on the due date but  as 
this was a weekend  this didnt arrive until the following Monday.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he had looked at the 
statements provided by Capital One and felt these were quite clear about on which date a 
payment is due. The bill doesnt have to be paid on the day its due, it can be paid at any 
point leading up to that day, and the statements were  he thought - also clear on how much 
Mrs C will be charged if she didnt make the payment in time.
Mrs C had mentioned to Capital One that a direct debit wouldnt have been taken until the 
Monday. The investigator raised this with Capital One and it said that it takes direct debit 
three days in advance to avoid issues with weekend payments.
Mrs C disagrees. She says the monthly statements clearly gives a due date for payment and 
it is this date that she budgeted for each month, not three days before. If the bank requires 
payment prior to the weekend payment date, as shown on the statement then, surely, that 
should be the due date for payment on the statement. She maintains she always makes her 
payments through internet banking, on the date provided on her statement. If that falls at the 
weekend, the funds leave her account on the first available working day otherwise, within 
two hours.
The investigator still didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt it was Mrs Cs 
responsibility to make sure the money reached the account by the due date. 
Mrs C continues to disagree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. She says she 
receives her pension as four payments received on separate dates throughout the month. 
From each payment, she budgets for payments due from that date to the next payment date. 
There is insufficient spare income to cover extra payments between pension payment dates, 
which is why she budgets. Additionally, if she paid by direct debit, Capital One could not 
change a payment due date, to suit its needs, without first requesting her approval. She 
makes her monthly payment on line and on the due date, with internet banking. A weekday 
payment is always made within two hours but a weekend payment is always made on the 
next available weekday. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Cs frustration at what has happened here. She says she sent the 
money on the day it was due but has been charged a late payment.
Although Mrs C says she sent the payment on the due date Capital One has provided 
evidence it wasnt received until the day after. The payment was therefore late. I agree with 
the investigator that the late payment fee was clear. I therefore dont think Capital One was 
wrong to charge her a late payment.
Mrs C has referred to the position regarding payments by direct debit. She doesnt pay by 
direct debit so this isnt really relevant. But Capital One has explained that if Mrs C had been 
paying by direct debit then it would have taken the payment prior to the due date so she 
wouldnt have had a late charge. The date the payment would be taken would have been set 
out on the statement.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman