DRN-1827428
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has not refunded the money he 
lost in a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to all the parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here in detail except to say that in 2017 Mr E made a direct foreign currency transaction in 
Euros to a third party for some accommodation. But sometime after the money was sent it 
became apparent this was a scam. Bank of Scotland attempted to recover the money but 
unfortunately could not do so. Mr E is unhappy about this and wants the bank to refund the 
money, apologise and pay him compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I understand Mr Es frustration at what has happened. But the simple fact is in this 
case he authorised this payment through online banking even though he was tricked 
into doing so by the third party. There was also nothing unusual or suspicious about 
this payment or anything to reasonably alert the bank to the fact that Mr E might have 
been the victim of a scam. Consequently, I think Bank of Scotland rightly followed Mr 
Es valid instruction and made the payment.
Mr E first reported the scam to Bank of Scotland more than two weeks after the 
payment was made. That inevitably made it extremely unlikely that the money could 
be recovered. Even so Bank of Scotland took reasonable steps to do so including by 
contacting the receiving bank on several occasions, although unfortunately it didnt 
receive a response.
Taking everything into account I think Bank of Scotland acted reasonably throughout. 
And although I sympathise with the unfortunate situation Mr E has found himself in, I 
do not think I can fairly or reasonably now require Bank of Scotland to do anything 
more than it has done, including reimbursing the money, apologising or paying 
compensation as Mr E would like.
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman