DRN-3890010
The complaint
Ms S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc Trading as Swiftcover (AXA) didnt provide her 
with a courtesy car and caused delays when dealing with a claim under her motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Ms S was involved in an accident-causing damage to her car on 16 October 2022. She 
reported this to AXA the next day, and they opened a claim for her. On 18 October 2022 
AXA provided her with a link to book in the repairs. AXA called her the next day to discuss 
the repair process, but Ms S advised she had not yet had the time to book in the repair. 
Ms S next contacted AXA on 31 October 2022 to say she had been having trouble trying to 
use the portal to book in the repairs to her car. She reported to them that she had been on a 
call with the approved repairer and been placed on hold for a long time, eventually being cut 
off. She said that there appeared to be no body-shop appointments available on the portal. 
AXA Checked and advised Ms S that her car could be booked in for the following week but 
that they couldnt provide a courtesy car at that time as there wasnt one available. They said 
if she did need one then the wait would be a couple of months, for booking in her car.
Because of this Ms S chose to use her own garage rather than the recommended repairer. 
She says AXA caused delays in agreeing the quotes from her own garage meaning she had 
to call to chase this over a number of days. 
Ms S complained to AXA asking to be compensated for the delays and lack of courtesy car. 
AXA responded explaining that they were experiencing delays in booking in cars for repair 
and had limited availability of courtesy cars and so were prioritising cars that were 
undriveable for this reason. They went on to apologise not being more proactive in their 
communications with her and issued £150 compensation for this.
Ms S wasnt satisfied with this response and so brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators considered things but didnt feel this was a complaint that should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
The overall time taken to deal with Ms S claim was reasonable
Communication from AXA could have been better
The lack of courtesy cars was a nationwide issue because of a shortage of available 
second-hand cars on the market.
Ms S wasnt entitled to a courtesy car once she decided to use her own garage and 
not the approved repairer. 
Ms S hadnt lost out due to their not being a courtesy car available as her car was 
driveable before the repairs as the damage was only cosmetic.
The £150 already award by the business was in line with this services approach.
Ms S disagreed, she felt that in having to search out her own garage and take her car for 
quotes, she was put to considerable inconvenience. She also said that the delays had 
caused her stress. All of which she felt was unreasonable as she had taken out 
comprehensive insurance and so shouldnt have to be put to inconvenient.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
 
Having read and considered the whole file, Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain, but in doing so Ill keep my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the 
right outcome.
Ms S said that dealing with the approved repairer through the portal was difficult and she felt 
that she wasnt getting anywhere. When she flagged this to AXA they spoke to the approved 
repairer and were able to give Ms S an option the same day to book her car in for the 
following week. Ms S chose not to do this because of there being no availability of a courtesy 
car at that time. She was offered the option to wait for a courtesy car but was told that this 
could be a couple of months. AXA explained in their final response that the shortage of 
courtesy cars is a nationwide problem and so they are having to prioritise cars that arent 
driveable for this reason. 
I understand that Ms S doesnt agree this is a nationwide issue, but I can assure her this is 
something we are seeing that is affecting the industry as a whole. As such I dont think 
AXAs approach to prioritise undriveable cars is unreasonable. Ms S car had some cosmetic 
damage to the side of it but was driveable. While she may not have wanted to wait for 
repairs or drive the car while it had damage that was a choice rather than a necessity and, 
while it may have influenced her decision to use her own garage, I dont think AXA did 
anything wrong here. Once Ms S decided to use her own garage, she was no longer entitled 
to a courtesy car under the policy terms, this is not unusual, and is standard across most 
policies on the market, so I dont think she lost out here.  
Because Ms S chose to use her own garage, the onus is on her to get the garage to provide 
a quote. Ms S said she had to drive around to different garages to find a garage to repair the 
car, but I cant fairly say this was because AXA had done something wrong, it was because 
of her choice to use her own garage rather than waiting for the approved repairer.
I have seen Ms S chosen garage called AXA on 8 November 2022 asking for a claim 
number so they could submit their quote. Ms S called AXA the next day to see if it had been 
received, it had and was loaded onto the system. She called again on 10 November 2022 to 
ask if it had been approved yet and AXA explained that it was waiting to be allocated to an 
engineer for approval, Ms S replied she will call back every day until its approved. Later the 
same day AXA sent Ms S a message telling her that once the quote is allocated to an engineer, they have 72 hours to authorise the repairs. Ms S called back on Friday 11 
November 2022 to chase the authorisation and was told the quote had now been allocated 
to an engineer. Ms S called again on Monday 14 November 2022, chasing the authorisation, 
which was given later the same day.
I know Ms S said she had to chase AXA daily to approve the quote from her garage, but I 
disagree. I say this because AXA explained to her in their message that her quote was 
waiting to be allocated to an engineer and once it was it could take up to 72 hours to be 
approved. The calls she made after being told this was of her own choice and in my opinion 
unnecessary as AXA did do what they had said they would and met the timescales laid out.
Ms S said communication was poor and AXA havent disputed this, they have awarded £150 
in compensation for this and thats in line with our general approach and what Id expect in 
similar circumstances. So, it follows I wont be asking them to do more.
I know Ms S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with AXA can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman