DRN-2795841
The complaint
Mr B complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr B was provided with three loans by MoneyBoat, the details of which are set out below.
Loan Date Instalments Repaid Amount
1 31/07/2019 5 12/11/2019 £200
2 18/11/2019 6 28/04/2020 £250
3 01/05/2020 6 25/08/2020 £200
Mr B says that when he was provided with the loans he had already taken out other short 
term loans. He says proper affordability checks didnt take place and the MoneyBoat loans 
made his situation worse.
MoneyBoat issued its final response letter dated 13 November 2020. It said that before the 
loans were provided it carried out adequate checks. It said credit checks took place and 
information about Mr Bs income and expenses was gathered. It says based on the 
information provided the loans were affordable. It also noted that Mr B had repaid the loans 
early.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that based on the information 
MoneyBoat received that further verification was required. She also didnt think that based 
on the loans alone that MoneyBoat shouldve realised Mr B was experiencing underlying 
financial difficulty.
Mr B didnt accept our adjudicators view.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
That the information gathered by MoneyBoat before the loans were provided raised 
concerns that Mr B was struggling to manage his money. 
Although MoneyBoat increased Mr Bs expenses this wasnt enough to account for 
the difference between the £100 he said he paid towards his credit commitments and 
the amount he was paying. 
Mr Bs credit search showed that his credit cards all had a balance near the limit, and 
this had been the case for the previous months and while payments were being 
made these werent having a significant impact on the outstanding balances. It 
showed he was making regular use of short term loans and had been doing so over 
an extended period. While he was repaying the short term loans, he was then taking 
out new loans suggesting that the repayments werent sustainably affordable and 
new borrowing was required to fill the hole left by repayments. 
In the month before the first loan, Mr Bs credit report showed he took out more than 
three short term loans as well as settling other loans that he had taken out in 
previous months. He also took out a larger loan in June 2019 and had at least two of 
the other short term loans outstanding at the time of MoneyBoats first loan. Given 
this I thought that MoneyBoat should have been concerned that Mr B was struggling 
to manage his money and that he may have become persistently reliant on short 
term lending. 
Overall, I didnt think that loan 1, or the subsequent loans, was sustainably affordable for 
Mr B. 
MoneyBoat didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said its checks were proportionate 
and that in the early stages of the lending relationship decisions are automated and it wasnt 
reasonable that each line of the credit file was reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, we've set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think the information gathered before the loans were 
provided showed that Mr B was struggling to manage his money and that there was a 
significant risk that lending to him wasnt sustainably affordable. I note the comments 
MoneyBoat has made in response to my provisional decision about how decisions are made 
in the early stages of the lending relationship. However, I think it reasonable to accept that if 
information is gathered that shows a consumer if struggling to manage their money this 
needs to be taken into account in any lending decision.
Therefore, as I said in my provisional decision, I do not think that MoneyBoat should have 
considered these loans sustainably affordable and therefore I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should:
refund all interest and charges that Mr B paid on the loans along with interest of 8% 
simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement*; and
remove any negative information about the loans from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Evergreen Finance London Limited trading 
as MoneyBoat.co.uk should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman