DRN-2574089
The complaint
Mrs W complains that it was irresponsible of TFS Loans Limited to add her as a guarantor to 
a loan taken out by her son.  
What happened
Mrs Ws complaint has previously been considered by another ombudsman who issued a 
provisional decision on the complaint in September 2020. Mrs W accepted the provisional 
decision. TFS didnt agree with the provisional decision and provided us with some further 
comments and information. However the original ombudsman is no longer working on 
complaints of this nature. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. My final 
decision, that I explain below, is the same as that provisionally reached by the original 
ombudsman. 
In February 2016 Mrs W signed a Guarantee and Indemnity agreement in respect of a loan 
of £6,500 that had been provided to her son. The loan was due to be repaid in 54 monthly 
instalments, and by acting as guarantor Mrs W agreed to meet those repayments should the 
borrower fail to do so. In fact Mrs W has made more than half of the repayments on the loan 
to date. A balance remains outstanding on the loan.
I am deciding a separate complaint that has been brought by the borrower against TFS. He 
says that TFS was irresponsible to lend to him. In this decision I will only be considering 
whether it was reasonable for TFS to accept Mrs W as a guarantor for the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints of this nature on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS added Mrs W as a guarantor required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what 
was owed in a sustainable manner should she be required to do so. This assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs W. In practice 
this meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mrs W undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mrs W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are 
guaranteeing. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a guarantor might be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
guarantor vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to 
Mrs W acting as guarantor.
TFS gathered some information from Mrs W before it agreed to her acting as guarantor on 
the loan. It asked her for details of her income, and it checked her credit file to assess how 
much she was repaying to other creditors.
Mrs W was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. She might be required to make 
monthly repayments for a period of more than four years. But what is of greatest concern to 
me is the size of the repayment that Mrs W might be required to make when compared to 
the income she declared to the lender.
It seems that Mrs W was responsible for paying the household bills for her, and her son. Her 
son paid her rent each month of £300. But of course, should Mrs W need to step in to make 
the repayments on the loan it is unlikely that she would expect to receive any rent payments 
from her son. So should Mrs Ws son be facing financial difficulties I think it is likely that both 
the rent payments might cease and her expenditure significantly increase.
Mrs Ws income was in the form of a state pension and some limited state disability benefits. 
She doesnt appear to have had any other form of income, or any reasonable method of 
increasing her monthly income should she need to. The repayment she might be required to 
make would account for more than 30% of the income that TFS recorded for Mrs W. TFS 
didnt record details of Mrs Ws other expenditure, but in my experience it is very unlikely that 
she would have been able to sustain repayments at that level for any significant period of 
time. I dont think it was reasonable for TFS to conclude that Mrs W would be able to make 
the repayments in a sustainable manner should she be required to do so. And whilst the 
credit check didnt show she had previously faced problems managing her money, that 
doesnt show that she had the financial capacity to take on significant additional expenditure.TFS has pointed out that Mrs W has in fact made a large number of repayments on the loan 
without apparent difficulty. But I dont agree that it logically follows from this that TFSs 
decision to add Mrs W as a guarantor was reasonable. Firstly I havent seen anything to 
make me think TFS has any understanding of how Mrs W has met these repayments, and 
whether she has done so in a sustainable manner. And in the same way that a failure to 
meet an agreed repayment doesnt necessarily mean a loan had been lent irresponsibly, 
Mrs W making the repayments doesnt necessarily mean that it was reasonable to conclude 
at the time of the original agreement that she was likely to be able to do so sustainably.
So I dont think it was reasonable for TFS to accept Mrs W as guarantor for this loan, and it 
needs to pay her some compensation.
  
Putting things right
As I said earlier Mrs W has made a significant number of repayments on the loan acting as 
the guarantor. Whilst I accept that TFS might not have legally required Mrs W to make all 
those repayments I think it reasonable to conclude that she only made the repayments 
because of her guarantor obligations. So to put things right TFS should;
Refund to Mrs W any repayments she has made on this loan.
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded repayments from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file in relation to the 
loan
Release Mrs W from any obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement 
and then terminate it
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman