DRN-2823768
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has unfairly 
refused to meet a claim they made for stolen items in their new home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C were moving home  and the sellers of their new house agreed to leave some 
mirrors, as well as other items, in the property for them.
Mr C spoke to Lloyds on 8 October and arranged for contents cover to start on their new 
house on 13 October.
On 14 October, the day their furniture was moved into the house, Mr and Mrs C realised the 
mirrors werent there. So they contacted Lloyds to make a claim.
Lloyds agreed to consider the claim. It got Mr and Mrs C to check if the sellers had taken the 
mirrors by mistake  but they hadnt. Lloyds then said it wouldnt meet the claim as it didnt 
think Mr and Mrs C had access to the house before the 14 October and there was no 
evidence of a break in.
A couple of months later Mr and Mrs C realised that a rear window had been forced  and 
thought this might have happened when the mirrors were taken. They explained they hadnt 
checked all the doors and windows earlier, but instead found about this in December when 
they were having their security arrangements checked. They reported this to the police, and 
Lloyds reconsidered the claim.
Lloyds said it still wouldnt meet the claim. It said that there was no evidence that showed the 
mirrors were taken whilst the property was insured. It pointed out that the insurance for the 
property only started on 13 October and the loss was noticed the next day. 
Lloyds did acknowledge that it hadnt handled the claim as well as it could have, and paid Mr 
and Mrs C £50 to make up for this.
Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think he could ask Lloyds 
to do more as there was no compelling evidence that the theft had taken place whilst the 
property was insured. He thought the compensation Lloyds paid was fair.
Mr and Mrs C dont agree. They say the whole experience has led to a lot of stress for them 
whilst Mr C has been ill and they want both the claim to be met and for some additional 
compensation to be paid.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to comment on every point made in this complaint, but instead Ill concentrate 
on the main points.
Mr and Mrs arranged for contents insurance to start on their new property on 13 October. 
That seems reasonable, as it was the day before their furniture was due to be moved into 
the property.
However, Mr and Mrs C say they completed the purchase of the property on 7 October  a 
week before their insurance started. That might not have been an issue  expect for the fact 
that along with the house itself, theyd arranged to buy numerous items of furniture etc which 
were being left by the previous owners who were moving abroad. That included the mirrors 
that went missing.
I dont know exactly why Mr and Mrs C didnt start their contents cover from the date of 
completion  it may simply have been an oversight. But it does mean that anything in the 
house between 7 October and when the policy started wasnt insured.
That means that Mr and Mrs C would need to show Lloyds that the theft took place between 
13 October and when they noticed the mirrors were missing on the 14th. I appreciate they 
say they visited the house between 7 and 14 October and that theyd have noticed if the 
mirrors werent there  but theyve also said that they didnt check that the sellers had left all 
the items theyd agreed to leave. And whilst I agree that Mr and Mrs C found evidence of a 
forced window this wasnt until much later  and theres no way of saying when the window 
was forced. It might even have been long standing damage that went unrepaired by the 
previous owners. So I cant conclude the window was damaged whilst Mr and Mrs C were 
insured, nor even if a theft took place at the point the window was forced.
Mr and Mrs C have also said that on the day they noticed the missing mirrors, deliveries 
were being made all day. But they dont have any evidence that someone visiting the house 
removed the mirrors. 
Taking everything into account I dont think thats enough to persuade me the theft took 
place whilst they were insured. 
Lloyds did pay a small amount of compensation for the way it handled the claim. From what 
Ive seen, that seems a fair response, as the inconvenience seems to have been caused by 
misunderstandings more than anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman