DRN-3161138
The complaint
Mr B, Mr B and Mrs B complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a 
cancellation claim they made on a single trip travel insurance policy.
As Mrs B represents Mr B and Mr B, for simplicity, Ill refer to solely to her throughout this 
decision.
What happened
Mrs B took out a Fit2Travel Gold single trip travel insurance policy on 1 February 2020. The 
policy was intended to cover a trip shed booked to a country Ill call T. She was due to travel 
between 2 and 9 May 2020. Shed booked flights and accommodation separately. 
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. And on 15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised against all but essential 
travel to T. 
As a result, Mrs Bs airline cancelled her flights and Mrs B had to cancel the trip. The airline 
provided Mrs B with a refund of her flight costs. But the accommodation provider said Mrs 
Bs costs were non-refundable. So Mrs B made a claim on her travel insurance policy to 
recover these costs.
URV turned down the claim. It said the circumstances of it werent covered by the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Mrs B disagreed. She noted that the policy offered cover if an airline ceased trading before a 
policyholders departure. She felt that as the airline hadnt been offering any flights during 
the travel restrictions resulting from Covid-19, cover should apply under this section. She 
asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy literature 
made it clear that cancellation claims which were caused by changes in FCDO advice were 
specifically excluded from cover. He didnt think Mrs Bs airline could be considered to have 
ceased trading. And he felt this section only provided cover if an airline had become 
insolvent. Mrs Bs airline had never entered into insolvency. So he concluded itd been fair 
for URV to turn down the claim.
Mrs B disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, I think it was fair for URV to turn down 
this claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mrs Bs policy and the circumstances of the claim to decide whether URV treated 
her fairly. 
Should URV have accepted the claim under the If you are unable to go on your trip section 
of the policy?
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs policy, as these form the basis of 
her contract with URV. Page 17 of the policy sets out the pre-paid, irrecoverable cancellation 
costs URV will pay for, if a policyholder is unable to travel because: 
 they or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts. 
 a close relative or a close business associate in (their) home country is ill, injured or dies 
before the trip starts.
  the person (they) are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts. 
 they are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law. 
 they or a travel companion have been made redundant. 
 of the requirements of HM forces. 
Its clear that Mrs B wasnt able to travel for reasons outside of her control. But her trip 
wasnt cancelled as the result of any of the insured events which Ive set out above. So I 
dont think her claim is covered by this section of the policy.
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation wasnt 
clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think its fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. 
However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explore this further. 
Ive carefully considered the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) provided by 
URV, as well as the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs policy. Ive also had regard to the 
industry rules and guidance which Ive mentioned above, as well as the relevant law 
(including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015). 
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the 
policy in a way thats easy to understand. Cancellation claims due to the FCDO advising 
against all travel or all but essential travel arent included in the What is not insured section 
of the IPID. But the IPID relating to this policy includes a section called Where am I 
covered? on page 2. This section states: You will not be covered if you travel to a country 
or region when the Foreign and Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all 
but essential travel. 
Ive also looked carefully at the specific terms and conditions of the contract itself. Page 5 of 
the policy provides a Summary of Cover. This sets out the main cancellation cover provided 
by the policy. The summary also sets out that this cover will only apply if: cancellation is not 
because of the failure of your travel agent, tour operator or due to the advice of the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office. 
Page 16 of the contract sets out general exclusions which apply to the whole policy. One of 
these says: 
You are not covered under any section, unless specified, for any of the following 
circumstances: You travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise against all 
but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time of your departure. 
And the cancellation section of Mrs Bs policy, which Ive already referred to above, also sets 
out a specific exclusion on cancellation cover. This says: 
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section due to: the advice or 
recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your 
departure. 
So the cancellation section of Mrs Bs policy highlights a specific exclusion for claims which 
arise because of changes in FCDO advice. Although Mrs B may have been in the position of 
having no cover under this policy if shed travelled on 2 May 2020 and also having no cover 
if she cancelled, I think these exclusions are clearly and transparently set out in the terms 
and conditions of her policy. 
It was up to Mrs B to ensure she had the level of cover she required to meet her needs. If 
she wanted cover for cancellation due to changes in FCDO advice, its likely she couldve 
found another policy on the market which wouldve covered the situation she found herself 
in.
Should URV have covered the claim under the If your scheduled airline stops trading 
section of the policy?
I appreciate Mrs B feels strongly that URV should settle the cancellation claim under this 
section of the policy, as she considers that while travel restrictions were in place, her airline 
had stopped trading. She also thinks its likely that staff were furloughed during this period, 
which she feels reinforces the fact that the airline had ceased providing services.
The policy says: 
We will pay up to £1,000 to cover any amounts already paid for the scheduled flight that
you are unable to get back if the airline on which you are booked becomes insolvent 
before your departure from your home country causing you financial loss.
I think the policy terms make it clear that in order for cover to apply under this section, an 
airline must have become insolvent. Mrs Bs airline did not enter and has not entered 
insolvency since March 2020. So I think it was reasonable for URV to conclude that the 
claim wouldnt be covered by this section of the policy. And Id add too that I think the policy 
clearly states that cover under this section is only for the costs of the irrecoverable 
scheduled flights. It doesnt cover any other costs. Mrs B told us she recovered her flight 
costs from the airline. So her accommodation costs simply wouldnt be covered under this 
section of the contract, even if I had concluded that travel restrictions on the airline 
amounted to a cessation of trading. 
Conclusion
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for URV to conclude that the circumstances of this 
claim simply werent covered by the policy terms. Theres no section of the contract which 
covers the situation Mrs B found herself in. So while I sympathise with Mrs Bs position, as I 
appreciate shes been left out of pocket for reasons beyond her control, I find it was fair for 
URV to turn down this claim.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, Mr B and 
Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman