DRN-2444180
The complaint
Mrs B complains that a car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality. In the time that shes had it, it has needed 
several repairs, some of them significant and expensive.    
What happened
In June 2018 Mrs B took a car on hire purchase from Blue Motor Finance. The car was 
around six years old with a recorded mileage of 52,000 miles and a cash price of just under 
£17,300.  
Within a few months, in September 2018, Mrs B reported an issue with the cars traction 
control and gearbox. The dealership fitted a new exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) valve, 
which appeared to resolve the problem. Mrs B was not charged for this work. 
Between April and August 2019 Mrs B arranged for further repairs to be carried out on the 
cars brakes and for a service. 
In January 2020 Mrs B reported a further transmission fault. That required a replacement 
transmission unit and Haldex pump and total repairs costing some £3,000. Further work was 
carried out on the car later in 2020.
Mrs B complained to Blue Motor Finance, saying the car had not been of satisfactory quality 
at delivery. Blue Motor Finance and the dealership commented that the later repairs had 
been unrelated to those that had been carried out in the months shortly after delivery. They 
did not believe that the later problems were evidence that the car had not been of 
satisfactory quality. 
Mrs B referred the matter to this service. Initially, one of our investigators took the view that 
Blue Motor Finance should meet the cost of the repairs carried out in January 2020 and 
refund some hire payments, as well as making a payment in recognition of the 
inconvenience to which Mrs B had been put. After obtaining the dealerships further 
comments, Blue Motor Finance said it disagreed with the investigators findings; a different 
investigator considered the case and ultimately reached a different conclusion. She noted 
that Mrs B had been warned that the cars differential was noisy and needed to be 
investigated on a few occasions but had continued to use it for several months and several 
thousand miles. As a result, the damage was much worse and much more expensive to 
repair than would otherwise have been the case.
The second investigator recommended that Blue Motor Finance refund Mrs B two weeks of 
hire payments and pay her £75 further compensation  covering the time the car had been 
unavailable to her when the first repairs were carried out. Mrs B didnt accept the second 
investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review the case.            
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One effect of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 is that hire purchase agreement is to be read 
as including a term that the car was of satisfactory quality. That means that it should have 
been of the quality a reasonable person would expect in the circumstances. Those 
circumstances include the cars age, mileage and price. Mrs Bs car was several years old 
and had covered over 50,000 miles at delivery, so it was to be expected that it might need 
some repairs during the course of the hire purchase agreement  which was to run for 61 
months. Satisfactory quality, however, also covers matters such as durability, and Mrs B was 
entitled to expect a reasonable level of use from the car.
Theres evidence that the car had a number of repairs after Mrs B took delivery of it. They 
include:
in July 2018, reattaching a window washer hose and replacing a key battery (carried out 
under warranty);
in September 2018, replacing the EGR valve (also under warranty);
in May 2019, replacing a seized brake caliper and discs and pads;
in August 2019, replacement brake caliper and pads, carried out by Mrs Bs own 
garage;
in January 2020, replacing the power transfer unit and Haldex pump, at Mrs Bs 
expense;
in February 2020, a health check and adjustment to the exhaust heat shield;
also in February 2020, replacing brake discs and pads; and 
a replacement timing belt.
In my view, the need to replace brake pads and discs and the seized caliper were matters of 
wear and tear. That is, they are issues which might be expected in a car of this age and 
mileage. The work on the brakes was carried out by Mrs Bs own garage, not the dealership, 
and its not clear why they needed replacing three times in less than a year, but I cannot 
properly hold Blue Motor Finance responsible for that. Its also not unusual for a timing belt 
to need replacement after around 60,000 miles.  
The work in July and September 2018 was carried out under warranty. The July 2018 repairs 
were minor wear and tear issues, but Mrs B has suggested that the September 2018 work 
might not have been carried out correctly, causing the later transmission problems which 
required expensive repairs in January 2020. The dealership says however that the issue was 
resolved by replacing the EGR valve and that the later problems were unrelated. It says too 
that Mrs B drove the car several thousand miles between September 2018 and January 
2020. 
In April 2019 Mrs Bs own garage carried out a service. Its notes say that Mrs B was told that 
the differential was rough and noisy. She was told the same in May 2019, June 2019 and 
August 2019. In my view, its very likely that the problems that Mrs Bs garage described 
were exacerbated over the following months of use, as the dealership and Blue Motor 
Finance say. 
For these reasons I do not believe it would be fair to require Blue Motor Finance to 
reimburse Mrs B for the costs of the repairs in January 2020.
I do accept however that Mrs B was without the car while repairs were carried out under warranty in July and September 2018 and agree with the second investigator that it would be 
fair for her to receive some compensation in recognition of that.            
Putting things right
The investigator recommended a refund of two weeks hire and £75. For simplicity, however, 
I am making an award of £275 in total, to provide an element of interest on the refund. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Blue Motor Finance should pay Mrs B £275 in full and final 
settlement of Mrs Bs complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman