DRN-1600270
The complaint
Mrs G complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Royal Bank Insurance, unfairly 
declined a claim under her buildings and contents insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mrs G discovered damage had occurred at her home over a weekend, whilst 
she had been away. A neighbour told her that a storm had occurred over that weekend. The 
lead flashing around a window bay had come away from the wall, allowing water into the 
property. This caused damage internally to a ceiling and some home contents. 
UKI declined Mrs Gs claim saying it didnt think the damage was caused by a storm  and 
that it was most likely a result of gradual damage. UKIs expert had inspected the property 
and noted the flashing was loose around the wall it was joined to because of eroded mortar. 
This type of damage is excluded under the policy terms, so Mrs G wasnt covered for this 
claim. UKI also noted that Mrs G didnt have accidental damage cover so wouldnt cover the 
internal contents that were damaged.
Mrs G complained. She said the Met office had reported high rainfall. She also pointed out 
the roof had been serviced a few years ago and was in a good condition. She didnt think 
UKI had responded fairly. UKI investigated the complaint but didnt change its view. 
An investigator at this service looked at the complaint. She checked the weather records and 
found the conditions hadnt been so severe they could be classed as a storm. On this basis, 
she thought UKI had responded fairly to the complaint.
Mrs G didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKIs policy booklet sets out the level of cover offered by its home insurance policy. Like 
most home insurance policies, it provides cover when the home is damaged by a storm. Ive 
looked at the policy booklet and UKI doesnt define what it considers to be a storm, so Ill 
consider it in the context of our usual approach of violent winds, usually accompanied by 
rain, hail or snow. 
The policy doesnt cover any damage thats occurred through wear and tear, or lack of 
maintenance  this is listed in the policy exclusions. Insurers dont want to cover home 
maintenance issues, and so this excludes claim for damage where the main cause of the 
damage is general wear over time, as opposed to one-off storm events. 
As the investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm claims, we consider 
three questions; i) was there a storm, ii) is the damage consistent with a storm and iii) was 
the storm the main cause of the damage. If the answer to any of these questions is no, then 
were unlikely to uphold the complaint. 
Based on the weather records provided by Mrs G and the records we have access to, there 
was some heavy rainfall around the time she discovered the damage. But recorded wind 
speeds were relatively low. So, although there was some heavy rain at the time, and 
possibly some lightening, I dont think the weather conditions at Mrs Gs postcode were at a 
level we would consider to be a storm. 
Even if I accepted the conditions constituted a storm, Im not persuaded they caused 
damage to Mrs Gs roof. UKIs expert inspected the roof and reported flashing around 
Mrs Gs bay window was loose and had become displaced due to eroded mortar. They also 
said there was no evidence of storm damage. Im not persuaded theres evidence that 
shows the weather conditions caused the mortar erosion and Im satisfied, on balance, the 
roof damage occurred gradually over time, as opposed to from a one-off storm event. 
The loose flashing allowed the water to enter the property, so it seems the main cause of the 
damage was a maintenance issue, as opposed to storm conditions. Any claims for damage 
caused by wear and tear, or lack of maintenance, are excluded by this policy. 
For me to agree UKI should cover the damage under the policy terms, there would need to 
have been storm conditions. And the damage needs to be consistent with a storm event, and 
the storm needs to be the main cause of damage. As I dont think these conditions were met, 
UKI has responded reasonably to the claim and within its policy terms.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman