DRN-4071603
The complaint
Mr R complains Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited have unfairly turned down a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
A representative has supported Mr R in bringing this complaint, but for simplicity Ive just 
referred to him in this decision.
What happened
Mr R had an insurance policy, purchased through his broker, with Markerstudy which started 
on 22 December 2021. On 9 August 2022 unfortunately Mr R reported his car had been 
stolen. Markerstudy considered Mr Rs claim but turned it down because it was a condition of 
his policy that a tracker be fitted to the car. He says he wasnt aware of this, and never 
received any paperwork to tell him he needed to fit a tracker  so he complained.
Markerstudy replied to Mr R and said it was correct for the claim to be turned down, so they 
still wouldnt meet his claim.
Unhappy with this Mr R asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, but 
found Markerstudy had acted fairly, as there was no tracker on his car and the policy 
required one.
Mr R didnt accept this. He reiterated he hadnt been told about the tracker, never received 
the policy documents, and raised some further issues about information Markerstudy had 
recorded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to make it clear Im required to focus on the crux of this complaint. Im aware Mr R 
has asked some further questions in an email sent to us on 22 March 2023  but my focus 
has to be on the complaint raised. As at the date of this decision, although our Investigator 
did ask Markerstudy to answer these points, they havent. Having reviewed all of the 
information, and the questions Mr R has asked, I cant see itd make a difference to the 
outcome of this case. Ive asked our Investigator to remind Markerstudy Mr R would like a 
response to his questions  but either way if Mr R wishes to he can raise a new complaint 
about additional policyholders and issues about trusting his broker.
There is no question Mr R has sadly been the victim of a crime, and that his car has been 
stolen  for this he has my sympathy as I cant imagine its been a very nice time for him. But 
being impartial means I need to decide if Markerstudy have acted fairly in turning down the 
claim.
The relevant policy was issued in December 2021 and ran for a year. So, Id expect to see 
some evidence which demonstrated Mr R was made aware of the requirement of having an 
active tracker on his car during this policy year.
The letter dated 21 December 2021 and addressed to Mr R says, amongst other things:
Cat 5 tracking device to be installed and activated. Theft cover excluded if not.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that a theft tracker wasnt active. So, I think Markerstudy 
have fairly turned down the claim.
I understand Mr R says he didnt know about this requirement, nor did he receive this letter. 
But the letter is addressed to him, and it seems more likely than not it was sent to him to 
make him aware of the requirements. 
Im aware when seeing this letter it also references the requirement to provide driving licence 
information  which he says was never provided and asks why this wasnt followed up. 
Markerstudy have said this is standard information they ask for, and it doesnt say theyll 
cancel the policy if the information isnt provided.
While I may find it a bit odd they ask for this information and then dont always follow it up, 
ultimately thats a choice for Markerstudy to make. But, in respect of the specific issue in 
Mr Rs case, the letter explicitly says theft claims wont be covered unless a tracking device 
was fitted  and unfortunately in Mr Rs case one wasnt. So, I cant fairly ask Markerstudy to 
pay the claim.
Ive also noted Mr R has said hes not received all documents and phone calls when 
completing a subject access request (SAR). Ive not seen anything to obviously suggest 
Markerstudy havent carried this out correctly, so if Mr R wishes to pursue this matter further 
then he could ask the Information Commissioners Office to look into things for him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman