DRN-3360750
The complaint
Mr S complains about a fee Assetz SME Capital Limited (Assetz) has introduced on his
crowdfunding account. He believes he has been treated unfairly and prevented from closing
his accounts without accepting the new terms.
What happened
Over a number of years, Mr S invested in several crowdfunding accounts on Assetzs peer to
peer lending platform.
On 31 March 2020, Assetz informed Mr S that it would be introducing a fee that would be
payable from 1 May 2020. The fee was charged at 0.9% per annum, which is 0.075% per
month of the loans under management  not those in default.
Mr S sought to close his accounts immediately as he didnt want to accept the fee. He also
raised a complaint with Assetz about the fee.
Assetz responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary it said, the terms and
conditions Mr S agreed to allowed it to introduce a lender membership fee.
Mr S raised further concerns about the application of terms. He referred to legislation, the
Consumer Rights Act, and said Assetz was relying on unfair terms to raise the price of its
service unilaterally. He said Assetz was denying his right to close the account rather than
accept new charges.
To fully close his accounts, Mr S needed to liquate the funds he held in loans  but, due to
the time taken to complete a full withdrawal, he couldnt do this immediately. Mr S said he
would not log into his account as this would mean he is accepting the new terms  which is
not what he wanted to do.
Assetz responded again and said its terms and conditions had always contained a provision
to introduce a lender membership fee. It said the reason for introducing it now was because
of the extraordinary circumstances linked to the global pandemic. It was to assist the funding
of the platforms costs to ensure the continuation of services for the benefit of investors.
Assetz also said it was intended to be temporary, pending a return to some economic
normality. It confirmed, while Mr S is in the process of closing down his account, he is not
prohibited from obtaining information about his investments.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response, so referred his complaint to this service for an
independent review.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2020 upholding the complaint  this is what I said:
The crux of Mr Ss complaint is about the introduction of a lender membership fee on his
crowdfunding accounts in May 2020. I can see Assetz notified Mr S this it would be
..commencing a lender loan servicing fee of 0.9% per annum, which is 0.075% per month of
the loans under management, starting on 1st May.
I note Assetz explained that This fee is permitted in our terms and conditions, however we
have never needed to implement it over the last seven years and we hope and expect it
to be a short-term measure. It is also a fee that many other peer to peer platforms already
charge even in normal market conditions, and our fee is lower than many of those in any
case.
So, Ive looked at the terms and conditions that were relevant when Mr S opened his first
account. These do explain that the possibility of charging a membership fee - the terms say
At present there is no membership or joining fee payable for being a Lending Member. The
Assetz Capital Companies reserve the right to introduce a membership or joining fee in
future.
But, Assetz updated its terms on 30 April 2020. This included the following term relevant to
this complaint:
Under normal circumstances there is no membership or joining fee payable for being a
Lending Member. The Assetz Capital Companies reserve the right to introduce a
membership or joining fee in future. Starting on 1st May 2020 we will be charging a fee
which will be referred to as the Lender Loan Servicing Fee until further notice. This fee will
be 0.9% per annum, which is 0.075% per month of the loans under management. Our
intention is that this will be a temporary measure whilst the current Non-Normal Market
Conditions brought about by the Coronavirus (COVID-19) persist.
Within its final response letter to Mr S, Assetz referred to Section 20 of its terms and
conditions to support that it could make updates. The relevant term says:
20. Altered Circumstances and Changes to the Terms
1. If there is a change in circumstances or a change in the law, HMRC practice or
regulations or the interpretation of them, or if any Assetz Capital Company wishes to
make changes to the services which it provides on the Network or Website, the
Assetz Capital Companies may amend these Terms from time to time as they think
fit.
2. Where a change to these Terms does not affect existing Loan Units and does not
disadvantage existing Lending Members or where the changes are reasonably believed by
the Assetz Capital Companies to be in the interests of the Lending Members, the Assetz
Capital Companies may make any amendments to these Terms at any time with immediate
effect. Where it is necessary or desirable to make changes to these Terms which affect
existing Loan Units or may disadvantage existing Lending Members, the Assetz Capital
Companies will endeavour to provide 30 days notice before any changes take effect. Any
such notice shall be posted on the Website.
3. Any amendments will be posted on the Website as soon as reasonably
practicable. By continuing to use the Website, each Lending Member agrees to be
bound by the amended Terms.
While I appreciate this is a broad term, it does tend to support that Assetz may vary its
terms, but it still needed to consider the impact of any changes it makes on its customers. Mr
S has made reference to legislation  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and believes the
terms Assetz rely on is unfair. He says there is an imbalance of power between him and
Assetz. Its not for me to decide whether this term is fair or not  that is something only a
court can decide. But as a regulated financial business Assetz is under an obligation to treat
its customers fairly. And the obligation I am under is to consider what is fair and reasonable
in all of the circumstances  which includes having consideration for the relevant law and
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice; and (whereappropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In December 2018, the FCA published guidance that outlines the factors financial services
firms should consider under the CRA when drafting and reviewing variation terms in their
consumer contracts. I can consider whether Assetz has applied the terms fairly in the way it
introduced the fee. I think this is relevant guidance to help me decide whether Assetz has
treated Mr S in a fair and reasonable way when it introduced the loan servicing fee.
In considering this complaint, Ive had regard for the fact Mr S entered into an agreement
which said he wouldnt pay a membership fee on his investments. Hed been warned he
might have to pay one in future  but not how much that would be, when it would be payable,
and on what basis (e.g. a percentage or a flat rate).
Taking into account the relevant guidance, Im satisfied it would have been fair and
reasonable for Assetz to ensure amongst other things:
They had a good reason for introducing the fee.
They gave investors notice of its introduction.
They allowed those who didnt want to pay the fee the opportunity to leave without
penalty.
Indeed, Mr S thinks the term Assetz seeks to rely is unfair because no amount is included for
the fee or when it will be introduced. He also raises concerns about his ability to cancel the
contract when the price was increased. As explained above, only a court can decide if a term
is unfair. Ive considered everything to decide overall whether Mr S has been treated in fair
and reasonable manner by Assetz  including whether the introduction of the fee provides a
fair balance between the legitimate interest of Assetz and Mr Ss best interests.
I accept Assetz did make provision within the terms and conditions to make changes. Assetz
has explained that it needed to introduce the fee due to the extraordinary circumstances of
the global pandemic, so as to assist the funding the platform costs which enables it to
continue to service lenders and their loan investments. It also said the fee was set at the
minimum necessary and was intended to be temporary pending a return to economic
normality. It has provided further information to this service to explain the impact the global
pandemic had on its operation and costs.
I note Mr S doesnt believe Assetz has suffered impact as a result of the global pandemic to
justify the introduction of the lending member fee. But I am satisfied Assetz has provided
evidence that the abnormal market conditions did impact its operation and it sought to make
changes to stabilise until normal market conditions returned. It has provided information to
explain additional costs it faced as a result of the pandemic. Im satisfied these include new
and increased costs directly related to the impact of the pandemic at a time when income
was also suppressed. So, I dont think it is reasonable to say that the pandemic had no
impact on Assetzs costs. Assetz has provided information to support that the increased
costs were also linked to protecting lenders interests. Some of the additional costs relate to
activities to support borrowers in the short-term. Assetz say the purpose of these activities
was to prevent lost interest income. And the overall aim was to protect investors long-term
returns by ensuring there was not widespread failures of borrowers to maintain or repay their
loans to investors  like Mr S. So, there is evidence that Mr Ss best interests were
considered by Assetz when introducing the fee.
I also acknowledge the comments Mr S makes in relation to the unfairness of prices
increasing. The lender servicing fee was something that hadnt previously been payable  so
it doesnt come as a surprise that Mr S was unhappy when he was informed about it. The
FCA guidance on the fairness of variation clauses also provides a list of factors that to help
determine fairness. The guidance says a relevant factor is:Does the contract give the consumer the right to terminate the contract before or shortly
after any variation takes effect?
It goes further and says:
When drafting variation terms, firms should consider the consumers freedom to exit the
contract if they do not accept the variation, and how they can actually do so. This should
include the financial and practical barriers in the contractual terms which may prevent them
from doing so. Examples of barriers could be exit charges or requiring the consumer to give
a long period of notice.
Ive taken this into account when looking at how Assetz introduced the new fee on Mr S
account. Mr S has said he had no way of avoiding the fee if it didnt want to pay it. Im
satisfied Mr S sought to exit the contract when he found out about the fee. I can see that he
wanted to avoid accepting the terms and put his loans up for sale on the secondary market
almost immediately. But due to the queuing system introduced by Assetz and prevailing
market conditions he wasnt able to exit until some months later and he did pay a loan
servicing fee during the time he was waiting to exit.
In my view the way Assetz sought to vary the terms didnt fairly take into account Mr Ss
ability to exit. I appreciate due to the nature of P2P investments  and in taking into account
the prevailing market conditions, liquidity and ability to exit isnt easily possible compared to
other financial services contracts. But having reviewed the circumstances  and taking into
account the above FCA guidance  Im currently not persuaded Mr S has been treated fairly.
I dont find it fair that because it took time to sell Mr S loans, he should be bound by a new
fee for the duration of that sell down. Mr S has provided consistent and plausible evidence
that he didnt accept the fee and wanted to exit immediately to avoid paying it. As far Im
aware he didnt invest further or seek further lending after being notified of the fee.
So while I have taken into account the reasons why Assetz felt it needed to introduce the fee
and the aims of it, I think it should have made consideration for Mr Ss request to exit the
contract without accepting the fee. The lending terms for using the platform are clear that an
account can only be completely terminated when the lending member doesnt have any
current loans outstanding. But I think Assetz could have allowed Mr S to avoid the fee during
the time it took to sell his tradable loans (i.e. those not in default). 
Overall, Mr S agreed to utilise the services Assetz provided on its platform on a certain basis 
and at a certain cost. When Assetz unilaterally changed that  Mr S revaluated the nature of 
the bargain. He chose not to use Assetzs services on the new basis, and I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable for Assetz to require him to have to pay for something he didnt 
agree to. For this reason, I think Assetz should refund Mr S the lender service fee he paid, 
while waiting to sell his tradable loans.
Mr S responded and had nothing further to add. 
Assetz responded and provided further information and comments for me to consider. In 
summary it said:
Mr S agreed to investing on the platform knowing that a fee could be introduced at 
any time and the ability to sell his loans on the secondary market was dependent on 
there being willing buyers. So, he knew as long as he still held loans, Assetz would 
still need to service his loans  which became more challenging with the onset of the 
global pandemic.  
The terms and conditions reserved the right to introduce a fee, though this was only done when the pandemic made it a necessity. Utilisation of the services provided 
wasnt varied. A terms and conditions amendment was made, as opposed to a 
variation to apply a fee.  The amendment did not introduce any restrictions to exit that 
were not already in existence  i.e. the only way to withdraw is for another investor 
(lender) to replace an existing Investor. 
There are important distinctions in the way Mr S invested, the way services were 
provided and continued receipt of interest. For Access Account the fee was taken 
from the margin between the relevant target rate and the manual lending account 
rate  so there was no decrease in the interest actually received by investors due the 
implementation of the fee.
There is a distinction between a request for account closure and a withdrawal 
request. Mr S knew that membership can be terminated only once loan holdings are 
sold or repaid. Other than for seven days for the Access Accounts, all other accounts 
and the associated aftermarkets have operated as normal throughout the time frame 
in question.
A fee for loans under management reasonably includes all loans under management, 
including those that investors would like to sell but cant through no fault of ours, 
especially given how actively the loans were having to be managed during the 
pandemic. Withdrawal times have never been guaranteed and warnings were 
displayed on the website and in other notices provided. The inability of investors to 
withdraw was as a result of withdrawal requests outstripping deposits.
Mr S was given more than the required 30 days notice of the implementation of a 
fee. 
The introduction of the fee did not impose any barriers to exit that were not already in 
existence at the time. For example, by reference to the the FCA guidance to which 
the ombudsman refers, there was no exit charge or notice period required. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional comments and evidence that Assetz has provided. Having 
done so, I havent found reason to change the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I acknowledge the points made about the existing terms and conditions including a 
section that indicates a fee could be charged. It isnt in dispute that there was a term that 
says Assetz ...reserve the right to introduce a membership or joining fee in future. But what 
this term didnt include was the amount that could be charged, what is was for, or in what 
situation it would be charged. So, there was no basis from the existing terms for Mr S to 
understand the scenario when he could end up paying an increased cost. The variation to 
the terms in April 2020 gave this information  and it did actually introduce a specific name 
for the fee, a Lender Loan Servicing (LLS) fee (as oppose to calling it a membership fee). 
Assetz says when it introduced the fee the utilisation of services provided wasnt varied and 
it made an amendment to the terms and conditions as oppose to a variation to apply a fee. 
But while the service may not have been amended the cost to Mr S was varied  so Im not 
persuaded by Assetzs arguments on this point. As I mentioned above the amendment to 
section two of the terms provides significant detail about a newly named fee with a specific 
start date for introduction, an amount to be charged and the conditions under which it will be 
applied. In my view this is something very different to just being a minor amendment to an 
existing term  specifically because it changed the cost of the product for investors. There is 
a material change in the price for Mr S because he had been investing on the platform for 
many years without paying this fee  a fairly vague term that says a membership fee could be introduced is replaced with a direct change in price with full details of fee. So I think the 
FCA guidance on variation terms has relevance when considering whether Mr S has been 
treated in a fairly.
I have noted Assetz has provided its rational for introducing the fee and provided reasons 
relating to the impact of the pandemic, and that it gave Mr S 30 days notice. In my 
provisional decision, I accepted that there was evidence that Assetz had considered 
investors interests when it decided to introduce the fee. But key to my findings was that Mr S 
had no way of avoiding the fee if he didnt accept it  which is something that Mr S was clear 
that he didnt want to do. The communication Mr S had with Assetz immediately after the 
notice of the fee shows that he rejected the update to the terms and when he was told he 
couldnt immediately withdraw his funds to avoid the charge, he asked for his account to be 
closed. 
Assetz say the change to the terms didnt introduce any restrictions to exit that werent 
already in existence. I acknowledge the points made about supply and demand on the 
secondary market being the reason for no guarantee of immediate exit. I have also noted the 
points made about the difference between withdrawal request and account closure. This 
includes all the information Assetz has provided from its website detailing the operation of 
the different sub-accounts Mr S held.  But I dont think this information is sufficient to say Mr 
S has been treated fairly when the LLS fee was introduced. 
It is understood Mr S wasnt told he could withdraw invested funds whenever he wanted and 
without any delay  and effectively close his account with immediate effect. But at the time 
the fee was introduced Assetz was aware that there were liquidity issues in completing 
withdrawals due to what it described as an end to normal market conditions in mid-March 
2020. So, while it may be correct that the mechanism to withdraw invested funds didnt 
change, the ability to exit was very different to that available in normal market conditions.  In 
this situation, Mr S was faced with having to pay a higher price for his investment (because 
of a change to the terms) and no ability to avoid this because of the prevailing market 
conditions. While the market conditions were outside of Assetzs control, the way the fee 
was introduced wasnt. So I still think it would have been fair for Assetz to waive the fee in 
the scenario where Mr S was seeking to terminate his relationship and the thing preventing 
him from doing that was the liquidity issues caused by the market conditions. I acknowledge 
that Mr Ss loans were still being serviced when they were waiting to be sold (or repaid) but I 
dont agree this means that it is fair for him to be bound by a fee that he clearly rejected by 
asking for his account to be closed.  
   
Ive noted Assetz comments about the different types of sub accounts and how fees are 
applied. It says there are distinctions in the way Mr S invested, the way services were 
provided and continued receipt of interest  meaning for the Access Accounts there was no 
decrease in the interest due the implementation of the fee. In this scenario, I accept that 
there is no need for Assetz to refund fees if they had no impact on interest payments. But for 
other sub-accounts where interest paid was reduced because of the introduction of the fee 
this should be returned. 
Putting things right
To put things right Assetz should refund Mr S the LLS fee he paid (where it reduced the 
interest paid to him).
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Assetz SME Capital Limited to refund him the lender 
loan servicing fee as described above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman