DRN-2432382
The complaint
 Mr M complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) didnt treat him fairly 
when he cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
 
What happened
 Mr Ms motor insurance was renewed in October 2017 through One Call. But Mr Ms wife 
had bought a different car. So the car Mr M had insured was no longer needed. Mr M had 
health issues over this time which meant he spent some time in hospital. He cancelled his 
original motor insurance policy on 23 October 2017. 
One Call asked for proof that the car Mr M had insured through it was no longer his. It said 
that if he provided that information the set-up fee and the charge for the brief time on cover 
would be waived. So, Mr M sent the evidence of sale to One Call. Unfortunately the email he 
sent was flagged as potentially harmful. So the e-mail went into One Calls spam folder. One 
Call thought that Mr M hadnt sent it the information it needed. So it pursued him for the 
outstanding balance on the original policy.
One Call then passed on what it thought was Mr Ms debt to its debt management division. 
And its solicitors started to pursue Mr M for the debt. Mr M didnt think this was right as hed 
already sent One Call the information itd said it needed to waive the set-up fee and the 
charge for the brief time on cover.
Mr M tried again to send the proof of sale. But One Call didnt receive it, so the debt 
collection letters continued. So Mr M complained to One Call in February 2018. But One Call 
did nothing with his complaint until April 2019. One Call issued its final response to Mr M in 
August 2019. In that response, One Call said it had received evidence of the sale on 31 
October 2017. It apologised for what had happened to Mr M and offered him compensation 
of £200. It also waived the outstanding balance. 
Mr M didnt think this was enough to compensate him for the level of stress and 
inconvenience hed suffered, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator agreed with Mr M. He felt that the compensation One Call had already given 
him wasnt enough for the stress and inconvenience and felt it should pay a further £100.
One Call didnt agree. It felt the compensation itd already awarded was fair and reasonable 
under the circumstances. Mr M didnt agree that an additional £100 was enough to reflect 
the level of stress hed been put under, and the length of time it had taken to resolve his 
complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I think its important to note that any awards this service makes for distress and 
inconvenience arent designed to punish a business for any wrongdoing  thats the job of 
the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority). But we do expect businesses to 
acknowledge any wrongdoing and make it right.
One Call has acknowledged that there were service issues. Theyve offered £200 
compensation for the complaint not being raised when it shouldve been. And theyve waived 
the charge for the time Mr M did have on cover and the set-up fee. So I need to see if I feel 
this is fair under the circumstances.
In this case its not in dispute that One Call did something wrong  its acknowledged an 
internal error caused Mr M to be contacted about a debt which he didnt owe. Im satisfied 
One Call rectified things, but it took nearly two years to do so. 
One Call has apologised and offered the compensation outlined above. But our investigator 
thought Mr M should be awarded a further £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Mr M was sent several letters threatening debt recovery action which could affect 
his credit file. The issue went on for nearly two years. Mr M had health issues which 
wouldve made this much more stressful for him. And the type of volunteering Mr M does is 
such that threat of court action or a Crown Court Judgement (CCJ) wouldve been even 
more distressing.
Looking at what happened and how long it took to resolve, Im satisfied Mr M was caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience over a long period of time. 
One Call has said that Mr Ms personal circumstances werent made clear when the 
complaint was discussed. So it believes the compensation it has already paid is fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances. But I can see that Mr M did make his health issues 
known when he cancelled the policy as its noted in the call notes. 
In respect of the waiving of the outstanding balance, Mr M has said that he believed there 
were no fees due anyway, so this was not generosity from the company. I understand his 
point, as he was told the set-up fees would be waived when he first called to cancel his 
policy. So if nothing had gone wrong with the process, he wouldnt have paid the 
cancellation fees anyway.
So I agree that additional compensation is needed in this case.
Putting things right
Considering the impact One Calls mistakes had on Mr M - and noting what it has already 
done to put things right - I think a further £100 is a fair and reasonable award in the 
circumstances. 
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I require One Call Insurance Services Limited to pay him an additional £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
One Call Insurance Services Limited should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Ms 
accepted my final decision. If it pays the compensation later than this it should add interest 
to the compensation at 8% simple per year from the date of my decision until the date it 
makes the payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman