DRN-2736519
The complaint
Ms B complained because NewDay Ltd refused to refund her for a £499 transaction on her 
credit card, which she said she didnt authorise.
What happened
At around 4pm on 24 August 2020, a £449 purchase was made at a shop, using Ms Bs 
NewDay credit card and PIN.
On 25 September, Ms B sent a message by app to NewDay saying I dont recognise this 
transaction of [shop name]. She sent a similar message the next day. On 30 September, 
NewDay emailed Ms B asking her to phone its fraud team as soon as possible.
Ms B sent another app message on 10 October, and NewDay sent another email on 11 
October asking her to phone its fraud team.
Ms B sent two more app messages on 21 and 23 October, and NewDay sent another email 
on 24 October asking her to phone its fraud team.
Later that day, Ms B emailed NewDay from a different email address. She said she hadnt 
noticed the transaction till September and shed reported it around 12 times, but nobody had 
responded.  She complained that she was also incurring interest on a transaction that wasnt 
hers. She said Get it refunded back and any interest it has occurred. Finally she said I 
would like to keep a complete record of my case so please reply to this email address.
In its final response to Ms Bs complaint, NewDay said that it had responded to Ms B and 
had asked her on 11, 24 and 25 October to ring the fraud team. NewDay also said that the 
card schemes maximum timescale for a chargeback was 120 days, which had now been 
exceeded. So it couldnt treat this as a disputed transaction. NewDay said that it couldnt 
prevent interest accruing on a transaction until it was being investigated. As a gesture of 
goodwill it refunded £27.31 interest, but said that interest would continue to accrue until Ms 
B cleared her balance.
Ms B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld Ms Bs complaint. She explained that a chargeback cant be raised 
anyway for a transaction which had used the cards genuine chip and correct PIN, so 
NewDays reason for rejecting Ms Bs complaint wasnt correct. 
The investigator considered the options for what might have happened. She didnt think an 
unknown third party had carried out the transaction. She thought it was more likely that an 
opportunistic known third party had completed the transaction without Ms Bs consent. So 
the investigator considered NewDay should refund the £449 disputed transaction; rework the 
account as if the transaction hadnt happened, refunding any interest and charges; and pay 
£150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
NewDay didnt agree. It said that a known third party was an option, but Ms B had confirmed 
that no-one else could have had access to her card, other than her son who was only 14. So 
it said it couldnt accept that the transaction had been for a fraud.
 
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I explained that the relevant regulations for Ms Bs disputed 
transaction arent the card schemes chargeback rules. They are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, which make provisions for the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 to apply. 
Where a credit facility has been used, as here, the relevant legislation is section 83 of the 
CCA. This says that the debtor (the account holder) isnt liable if the card was used by 
someone who didnt have their consent. 
Applying these Regulations, its first necessary to see whether the disputed transaction was 
authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, I had seen the computer information 
which showed that the £449 transaction was made using the genuine card, with its 
embedded chip, and the correct PIN.
The next step is to determine whether or not Ms B authorised the transaction. So I 
considered the evidence about this.
Ms B told our investigator that she lives with her mother and teenage son. Her card is kept in 
her purse, in her handbag, which is hung up in the shoe cupboard. Ms Bs mother is disabled 
and rarely leaves the house. Ms B said her PIN wasnt written down anywhere, and other 
than her son, she couldnt think of anyone else who would have seen her use the card and 
PIN. She said she used it mostly for online shopping. I didnt have a long history of Ms Bs 
card usage, but there was a small online transaction earlier in the day on 24 August, and 
other online transactions on 27 and 28 August.
Given this information about the card and where it was kept, I considered it was most 
unlikely that an unknown third party fraudster carried out the transaction. I couldnt see how 
any such person could have obtained the card and returned it to Ms Bs shoe cupboard 
without her knowledge. And there was no clear way that a third party fraudster could have 
known the PIN.  Also, it would be most unlikely that any such fraudster would have returned 
the card, or only made one large transaction. Theyd have kept the card and continued to 
spend on it.  
So that left two options: that Ms B carried out the transaction herself, or someone known to 
her, for example her son, carried it out. I realised that was a difficult message to give, but it 
was what the evidence led me to believe here. I thought that was much more likely than an 
unknown third party fraudster, for the reasons Ive set out. I also noted that Ms B also didnt 
report the transaction for a month, and didnt follow NewDays messages to ring its fraud 
team, with the urgency that it had suggested. So my provisional decision was that I didnt 
intend to uphold this complaint.
responses to my provisional decision
Ms B said she was extremely disappointed as she was paying for someone elses fraudulent 
activity. She said she knew she hadnt made the transaction, and she didnt know how 
feasible it would be to suggest a teenage boy had done it, or her disabled mother. She said she was past angry, and utterly disappointed and frustrated at having a debt that wasnt 
hers.
NewDay didnt reply by the date set for responses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Ms B says shes frustrated at having a debt which wasnt hers. But for the 
reasons set out in the provisional decision, I still consider its much more likely that Ms B or 
someone known to her, for example her son, carried out the transaction, rather than an 
unknown third party.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman