DRN-3856457
The complaint
Mr N complains about Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
(Chaucer), declining a claim under his home insurance policy for damage to his property 
caused by bad weather, and cancelling his policy on the grounds Mr N hadnt disclosed 
building work being carried out at the property and that the property wasnt occupied.
Chaucer use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Chaucer 
includes these agents.
This decision only covers Mr Ns complaint about Chaucers decline of his claim and 
avoidance of his policy. It doesnt cover a separate complaint Mr N made to this service 
about his broker, which was the subject of a separate decision.
What happened
In February 2022, at the time of Storm Eunice, a garden annexe at Mr Ns property was 
damaged by nearby trees falling and from falling branches. There was also damage to a 
boundary fence. Mr N arranged for the fallen trees and branches, as well as the damaged 
annex, to be removed. He also contacted Chaucer to tell them about the damage and lodge 
a claim.
Given the value of the estimates provided by Mr N for the cost of replacing the annex and 
fence, as well as removal of the fallen trees and branches, Chaucer arranged for a loss 
adjuster (D) to visit the property and assess the damage, which they did the following month. 
Following the visit, Chaucer said the policy didnt cover damage to fences, so they wouldnt 
accept that element of the claim. Chaucer also appointed a separate firm (DSI) to further 
investigate the circumstance of the claim.
Following reports from D and DSI, Chaucer wrote to Mr N to say he hadnt complied with the 
terms and conditions of the policy, specifically those relating to changes in circumstances 
from those disclosed when the policy was taken out. Chaucer said he hadnt told them about 
significant alteration works that had begun in December 2021/January 2022, nor that he 
(and his family) had moved out of the property when the works began  so the property was 
no longer occupied. Chaucer said had Mr N notified them of the condition and occupancy of 
the property at the start of the policy, they wouldnt have offered cover. Due to this incorrect 
disclosure (failure to disclose changes) Chaucer said they were declining the claim and 
avoiding (cancelling) the policy from its inception (July 2021). They would refund the policy 
premiums paid from inception. 
Mr N then complained to this service. He was unhappy at his claim being declined and his 
policy cancelled. As Mr N hadnt previously complained to Chaucer, we asked Chaucer to 
consider the issues raised by Mr N. 
In their final response, Chaucer upheld the complaint in respect of avoidable delays in 
assessing his claim. Chaucer accepted there were delays when Mr N notified them of the 
damage, for which they apologised. 
Our investigator then considered Mr Ns complaint. She upheld the complaint, concluding 
Chaucer hadnt acted fairly in declining Mr Ns claim and avoiding his policy, as they hadnt 
shown the information provided by Mr N when he took out his policy was wrong. From the 
underwriting criteria provided by Chaucer, they would have offered cover had they known 
the property was unoccupied. Also, while the underwriting criteria said cover wouldnt be 
provided if the property wasnt in a good state of repair, she didnt think Chaucer had shown 
this was the case when Mr N took out his policy. And  when answering a question about 
whether alteration work wouldnt be carried out in the next 12 months - Mr N had answered 
disagree. Which indicated alteration work was due to be carried out.
To put things right, our investigator thought Chaucer should reconsider the claim against the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If this led Chaucer to make a settlement offer, 
they should deduct the premiums theyd refunded Mr N when avoiding his policy (and add 
interest to the settlement). Chaucer should also remove any record of the policy avoidance 
from internal and external databases. They should also pay £250 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience to Mr N.
As Chaucer didnt respond to our investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me 
to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Chaucer has acted fairly towards Mr N.
The main element of Mr Ns complaint is that Chaucer unfairly declined his claim and 
avoided (cancelled) his policy from its inception date (July 2021). He maintains he provided 
correct information at the time, when answering the questions put to him about his 
circumstances (including detailed information on the planned alteration works to the property 
that were being planned). While Ive not seen a formal final response from Chaucer covering 
their decline of Mr Ns policy and avoidance of his policy from inception, Ive taken their view 
to be that set out in their repudiation letter of May 2022. This states:
 Had you correctly notified us of the condition and occupancy of your property at the 
start of your policy, [we] would have declined to insure you.
Due to the incorrect disclosure, your claim has been declined and we will be cancelling 
your insurance back to the start date of 23/07/2021. All premiums paid to [us] will be 
refunded via your insurance broker. Cover is no longer in force
In considering the case, while Chaucer dont explicitly say they treated the case as one of 
misrepresentation under The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 
2012 (CIDRA), the reasons given for the decline of the claim and avoidance of the policy 
indicate thats what they have done. Thats because theyve applied one of the remedies 
available to an insurer where they consider a consumer has made a representation under 
CIDRA when taking out an insurance policy. In this case, the remedy Chaucer have applied 
(particularly the refund of premiums) indicates they have treated the case as one of 
qualifying (but careless) misrepresentation.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies 
provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show they 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Chaucer say Mr N didnt correctly tell them about the condition and occupancy of his 
property at the start of your policy and that had he done so, they would have declined to 
insure the property. Given this, Ive considered what Mr N was asked when he took out the 
policy, and the answers he provided, with particular reference to questions about the 
propertys condition (and the planned alteration work) and about Mr Ns occupancy of the 
property.
Taking the second aspect first, that of occupancy of the property, Chaucer have provided the 
Statement of Fact document issued at the time the policy was taken out (July 2021). This 
records questions about the property occupancy, for example that is occupied (during the 
day and during the night) and continues to be occupied solely by Mr N (and his family), not 
left unoccupied for more than 30 consecutive days. To which Mr N answered yes. Looking 
at the evidence available, including what Mr N has told us and his statement to Chaucer 
provided as part of their investigation of the claim, he and his family occupied the property 
until the commencement of the alteration works in January 2022. At which point they moved 
out to stay with relatives while the alteration work was carried out (with the intention of 
moving back into the property when the works were complete, planned for May 2022). 
As part of their investigation into the claim, Chaucer obtained publicly available images of 
the property at the time the policy was taken out, which they say show ongoing works at the 
property (contractor signage on a side entrance gate). However, Mr N says this was in 
anticipation of the alteration works beginning in August 2021  whereas they didnt start until 
January 2022. Ive also seen confirmation from the contractors carrying out the alteration 
work that it was scheduled to start in August 2021, but due to a family bereavement it was 
deferred until January 2022. So, Im not persuaded by Chaucers view.
Given this, Ive concluded Mr N (and his family) occupied the property at the time the policy 
was taken out  they moved out later when the alteration work began. So, I dont think Mr N 
made a misrepresentation about occupancy of the property when he took out the policy.
Turning to the other point, the condition of the property and the planned (subsequent) 
alteration work, Ive considered the information and evidence available. When taking out the 
policy Mr N was asked the question:
The property insured is and continues to be in a good statement of repair
To which Mr N answered yes. 
On the condition of the property specifically, as the alteration work didnt take place at the 
originally planned time, Ive considered the condition of the property when the policy was 
taken out (also given Mr N and his family were in occupancy at the time). The same publicly 
available images provided by Chaucer dont indicate a property in a clear state of disrepair 
(or otherwise poor condition). 
Based on this, Ive concluded the property wasnt other than in a good state of repair.On the alteration work, Mr N says he told Chaucer about the planned alteration works as 
part of his taking out the policy. Ive seen email evidence that he was asked detailed 
questions about the planned alteration works (by his broker) and responded in detail (again, 
to his broker). However, it appears he sent the response to the wrong broker, which meant 
Chaucer werent made aware at the time. 
However, Ive also noted that in taking out the policy, Mr N was asked the following question:
The property is and continues to beNot due to undergo alteration within the next 12 
months.
Mr N answered disagree to the question. Which indicated the property was due to undergo 
alteration within the next 12 months (as was the intention). The question asked only 
presented two options  agree or disagree. There was no opportunity to elaborate on the 
disagree answer. 
Based on these points, Ive concluded Mr N answered the question reasonably and didnt 
make a misrepresentation at the time he took out the policy. 
Taking these conclusions together, Ive concluded Mr N didnt make a misrepresentation 
when he took out his policy. That being the case, then Chaucer havent acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining his claim and avoiding his policy from the date of its inception. 
Having reached this conclusion, Ive thought about what Chaucer need to do to put things 
right. As I dont think Chaucer acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Ns claim and 
avoiding his policy from inception, then they should reconsider the claim in accordance with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Should Chaucer accept the claim, Id expect them to take account of any premiums theyve 
returned to Mr N when they avoided his policy (as well as any policy excess that may be 
applicable). I also think they should pay interest on any cash settlement they make (if they 
decide to accept the claim) from the date they would have accepted the claim had they not 
declined it and avoided the policy to the date any cash settlement is paid.
Chaucer should also remove any record of the policy avoidance from both internal and 
external databases.
Ive also considered the circumstances of the case and the impact on Mr N. I think the 
decline of his claim and the avoidance of his policy has been distressing and inconvenient, 
particularly as Ive concluded Chaucer havent acted fairly or reasonably. Taking all the 
circumstances of the case into consideration, I think £250 would be reasonably 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Ns complaint. I require 
Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company to:
Assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
reconsider the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Should Chaucer accept the claim, they should take account of any premiums theyve 
returned to Mr N when they avoided his policy (as well as any policy excess that may 
be applicable). Pay interest on any cash settlement they make (if they decide to accept the claim) 
from the date they would have accepted the claim had they not declined it and 
avoided the policy to the date any cash settlement is paid.
Remove any record of the policy avoidance from both internal and external 
databases.
Pay Mr N £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman