DRN-3285260
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) misinformed him about 
how withdrawals from a flexible ISA would work.
What happened
Mr M held a Double Take cash ISA with Virgin Money to which he subscribed the full 
£20,000 annual allowance for each of the 2019/20 and 2020/21 tax years.
Having done so, he contacted Virgin Money in May 2020 to discuss transferring some of the 
cash in the ISA to a stocks and shares ISA he held with another provider, by making monthly 
withdrawals.
Following a telephone conversation with a member of staff Mr M opened a flexible Easy 
Access ISA with Virgin Money and transferred some cash into it from his Double Take ISA. 
He then proceeded to make withdrawals totalling £9250 from the flexible ISA between June 
2020 to August 2020 to fund his stocks and shares ISA. 
Mr M then transferred the remaining balances of his two Virgin Money ISAs to the other 
provider. At this point it became apparent there was a problem relating to his ISA allowances 
and the other providers understanding of his subscription position. The full transfer amount 
couldnt be accepted by the other provider because Mr M had already subscribed the full 
allowances for the two tax years, so the £9,250 hed withdrawn from the flexible ISA couldnt 
be accepted into the stocks and shares ISA.  
Mr M tried to resolve the matter with Virgin Money and the new provider. He made formal 
complaints about both business, that were then referred to this service. Our investigator 
looked into both complaints. The complaint about the new provider was resolved, but no 
agreement could be reached in respect of Virgin Moneys actions. In short, the investigator 
didnt think that Virgin Money had misinformed Mr M about how the withdrawals would work. 
He noted thered also been some service issues, but he felt that the £25 offered by Virgin 
Money for these was fair.  
Mr M didnt accept this, so the matter was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
The key issue that remains in dispute centres upon the telephone call Mr M made to Virgin 
Money in May 2020 to enquire about the possibility of funding his stocks and shares ISA 
held with another provider with money from his Virgin Money cash ISA. Mr M feels that 
during this call he was led to believe that he was able to open a flexible ISA with Virgin 
Money and then make withdrawals from it to fund the stocks and shares ISA without his 
annual allowance being impacted. 
But this wasnt the case because, while withdrawals made from a flexible ISA can be repaid 
without affecting an annual allowance, the repayment must be made back into the flexible 
ISA. If the withdrawals are made to a different ISA, they are treated as new subscriptions. 
And in this case, Mr M couldnt make new subscriptions in 2020/21 as he had already 
subscribed his full allowance for that year  hence the £9250 that he tried to move to his new 
stocks and shares ISA eventually being identified as an over-subscription. 
Ive listened very closely to the phone call of May 2020 and its apparent there was 
misunderstanding on both sides. Mr M initially set out what he was aiming to do  to drip-
feed £20,000 from his Double Take cash ISA to the other providers stock and shares ISA in 
monthly instalments without affecting his allowances. And in the first instance the Virgin 
Money call handler did say that it wouldnt be possible to do this. 
But the conversation then turned to discussion of opening a new flexible ISA funded from the 
existing Double Take ISA and then taking withdrawals from that. This is where I think the 
understanding of the situation broke down. The call handler didnt give any incorrect 
information as such, but does appear to have been answering Mr Ms subsequent questions 
in the context of generally how a flexible ISA worked, rather than in the context of Mr Ms 
initial enquiry about allowances and moving money to the stocks and shares ISA. 
But that said, the call handler didnt give any information that was incorrect. He didnt tell 
Mr M definitively that he would be able to withdraw money from the flexible ISA and pay it 
into the stocks and shares ISA without affecting his allowances. In fact, he said, in reference 
to any withdrawals, that Mr M could put all that back and it wouldnt affect his allowance, 
which was correct. 
I note what Mr M has said about this being effectively what he did by putting the withdrawals 
into his stocks and shares ISA to maintain his allowance. But he wasnt putting the 
withdrawals back, he was putting them into a different ISA. So, these were correctly 
considered (eventually) to be new subscriptions.
I do understand Mr Ms frustration with the situation. The phone call was an unfortunate 
breakdown in communications, which couldve been handled better. But in all the 
circumstances, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Virgin Money actively 
misinformed Mr M or handled the call so badly as to warrant upholding the complaint. 
As an aside, I note the £25 offered by Virgin Money for the service issues experienced and 
consider this to be fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman