DRN-4318761
The complaint
Mr C says Wesleyan Assurance Society (Wesleyan) was negligent when it advised him to 
take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) pension plan. He says 
the recommendation wasnt suitable and has caused him financial detriment. 
Mr C is represented by It Is Your Money (IIYM).
What happened
Mr C was working for the NHS. In December 1996 he saw a financial adviser about his 
pension. The outcome of the meeting was he agreed to start a FSAVC, paying in £135 per 
month gross, up to age 60.
IIYM, on behalf of Mr C, raised a complaint with Wesleyan in February 2022. It had several 
concerns about what had happened during the sale of the FSAVC policy in 1996. These 
included that the adviser had failed to explore whether as a member of a defined benefit 
(DB) pension scheme he had better in-house options for making additional contributions.
Wesleyan responded to IIYM on 20 April 2022. It upheld Mr Cs complaint, concluding in the 
following terms:
Mr C has confirmed that he was aware that he could contribute to the in house AVC 
arrangement and the Added Years scheme. He further confirms he later purchased some 
Added Years. However, as mentioned earlier, I have been unable to locate the full sales file 
to confirm why the FSAVC was recommended. Furthermore, I am unable to evidence the 
[adviser] fully explained the risks and charges of the FSAVC against the in-house AVC or 
Added Years scheme. It is likely the advice would have been for Mr C to contribute into the 
in-house AVC on an added years basis scheme.
Wesleyan said it would conduct an assessment of final loss. And in December 2022 it wrote 
to Mr C and his representative with the outcome of that process. In summary, it concluded 
that although it had got things wrong in 1996, Mr C hadnt suffered a financial loss, and was 
actually significantly better off as a result of what had happened.
IIYM disagreed with Wesleyans calculation method. It said:
The calculation has revealed there is no financial loss but we are not in agreement that the 
calculation used is the fairest or most accurate assessment of Mr C's circumstances and in 
principle is incorrect. The business (or their actuaries) has deemed that Mr C should have 
started purchasing added years in January 1997 at a cost of 0.93% of salary for 1 added 
year through to when he stopped paying the FSAVC contribution in 2012. Had he received 
the correct advice and done this, he could have contracted to purchase Added Years of 2 
years 83 days up to age 60.
Mr C did in fact go on to start an added years contract in 2006 where over a term of 14 
years to age 60 he would have purchased 3 additional years. We believe the cost to 
purchase 1 additional year at this point was 1.58% of salary. We do not believe that Mr C 
lost the opportunity to buy added years and even with the hypothetical and actual added 
years would not have exceeded 40 years maximum service. However, he's paid more 
(1.58% rather than 0.93% per year) for the additional 3 years that he later purchased. The 
business has simply disregarded this element from the calculation and in doing so are 
disadvantaging Mr C.
An Investigator reviewed Mr Cs case and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He noted that it 
wasnt the role of this Service to check redress calculations. But he also thought, based on 
the available evidence, Wesleyan had conducted a loss calculation that was reasonable and 
in keeping with the regulators methodology.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Cs complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
In May 1996 the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) issued Regulatory Update 20 (RU20) 
which set out the procedures it expected product providers to follow. It said that a tied 
adviser like Wesleyan shouldnt recommend its own FSAVC until it had:
- Drawn Mr Cs attention to the in-scheme alternative.
- Discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (including likely 
lower charges for AVCs and the possibility of employers being willing to top-up 
benefits).
- Directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information 
on the in-scheme option.
As we know Wesleyan couldnt evidence that its adviser followed all the steps he shouldve 
in 1996. And so it upheld Mr Cs complaint. But IIYM on Mr Cs behalf disagreed with the 
redress methodology used. In responding to the Investigators view it said:
The business was unable to confirm what alternatives, if any, were discussed with Mr C 
when he saw the adviser in December 1996. It then instructed the independent actuary to 
complete the necessary calculation on the Added years basis. It was the business who 
chose the method, not the actuary!
Was this instruction correct? We ask this as a valid question given that your colleagues 
often state: Our services starting point is that the majority of consumers, at the time of the 
advice, were unlikely to want to spend a potentially greater monthly amount to get the same 
projected benefits from added years as they couldve had from a money purchase 
arrangement...Moving to the actual calculation that has been carried out at the request of the business. 
Whilst we acknowledge that the calculation has been carried out in part, by using the 
Pension Review methodology as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9. We dont believe strictly applying them is appropriate in the particular 
circumstances of this case.
Mr Cs FSAVC plan didnt fall within the initial scope of the review for which the guidance 
was intendedAnd crucially, theres nothing in the Dispute Resolution rules (DISP)  the 
rules in the FCA handbook that set out how complaints are to be dealt with by firms and the 
ombudsman service  which stipulates that this guidance must be applied to all FSAVC 
complaints being raised now, that didnt fall within the initial scope of the review.
Thats not to say the guidance and bulletin arent relevant at all; they do still provide a useful 
guide, particularly when we consider complaints about mis-sold FSAVC cases where its 
been determined that the consumer wouldve joined their employers AVC scheme. 
However, in this case, we believe departing from a strict interpretation of the guidance is 
necessary in order to provide Mr C with fair compensation....
You appear to suggest that Mr C wouldn't have chosen to buy the actual added years he 
did in 2006 at an earlier date due to affordability. We dispute this as it is clear that to 
purchase the full 5 years and 83 days would have cost him approximately £2500 per annum. 
He could've afforded this!
Secondly, the assumption that 0.93% of pensionable pay over 23 years is probably broadly 
similar to paying 1.58% over 14 years is wildly inaccurate when considering if there is a loss 
or not. It is clear that Mr C has needed to pay more into the 2006 added years contract to 
purchase the 3 years he did than he would've needed to if he had purchased them earlier.
Where something has gone wrong, it is the role of this Service to make sure things are put 
right. And that, as far as is reasonably possible, people like Mr C are returned to the position 
they wouldve been in now but for any failings identified. But its important to recognise, 
particularly given the passage of time, working with the available evidence and the need to 
avoid the benefit of hindsight, that redress isnt always a scientific matter.
Wesleyan instructed an actuarial firm to conduct a loss assessment using methodology 
prescribed by the regulator. It considered how many added years Mr Cs FSAVC contribution 
could have purchased. This was calculated as 2 years and 83 days. It assessed whether 
these added years or the FSAVC policy wouldve provided greater retirement benefits. It 
found that his policy generated a net gain to him of around £22,000. On this basis it 
concluded Mr C hadnt suffered financial detriment.
IIYM challenged whether Wesleyan had commissioned the correct loss assessment. It 
seemed to suggest that rather than being based on added years, this shouldve been based 
on the purchase of in-house additional voluntary contributions (AVCs). But Wesleyan asked 
Mr C to complete a questionnaire about his recollections from 1996. And he states that had 
he been better informed at the time he wouldve purchased added years, not AVCs. And we 
know he went on to purchase added years from his DB scheme in 2006. 
Mr C indicated that he wouldve purchased added years in 1996 had he been better 
informed. And his actions in 2006 bear this out. So, I think the assessment commissioned by 
Wesleyan was reasonable. IIYM hasnt done enough to demonstrate Mr C wouldve chosen 
the in-house AVC.
IIYM appears to change horses when it went on to challenge the Investigators finding 
around affordability likely inhibiting Mr C from buying the added years he bought from 2006 
any earlier. Hed said:My point in my original view about affordability is simply that, clearly Mr C and the adviser 
would have arrived at a figure of £135 per month as being affordableI imagine if he had 
felt he could have afforded a higher contribution comfortably that would have been 
considered at the meeting; indeed maybe other figures were discussed but clearly the 
amount that Mr C felt comfortable paying was £135 per month.
You state that the cost of 5 years and 83 days would have been approximately £2,500 
per annum and that Mr C could have afforded that amount. However we do not have the 
benefit of knowing what was discussed at the meeting or what was considered affordable at 
the time, or indeed what Mr Cs priorities were for any disposable income he had at that 
time. On the balance of probability I would have expected that affordability would have been 
part of the discussions around the FSAVC contributions and that the £135 per month Mr C 
agreed to was the amount he felt comfortable paying.
I note that Mr C made no further provision for his pension until 2006 when he bought three 
added years. So, I think its more likely than not, a higher contribution figure was not 
affordable prior to that, or wasnt his priority at that time.
Ive set out the regulations Wesleyan had to adhere to at the time Mr C bought his FSAVC 
policy. Documentation from 1996 indicates the adviser did make him aware of the 
alternatives. In addition, Mr C indicated in his recent testimony the adviser may have 
informed him of the differences between the routes, and confirmed hed been aware of the 
added years option in before he met with the adviser.
IIYM, on behalf of Mr C, hasnt done enough to satisfy me his decision in 2006 to buy 
additional years from his DB scheme was directly connected to the failings in the 1996 which 
Wesleyan has accepted responsibility for.
Based on the available evidence, Ive decided the redress method used by Wesleyan in 
assessing any potential loss caused to Mr C was reasonable and in accordance with the 
regulators expectations.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman