DRN-1983429
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) provided valuations of his 
pension plan in 2017 and 2018, but when he contacted it 2019 the value had fallen 
significantly. He wants the value to be restored to somewhere around what he was told in 
2017. 
What happened
Mr C holds a personal pension with Aviva. Over recent years, in order to understand what 
level of pension he could expect in retirement, he contacted Aviva for plan valuations. He 
says that in May 2017 he was given a valuation of £232,587.30. However, when he 
contacted Aviva in October 2019, he was advised that the valuation was then £196,401.41. 
Having seemingly suffered a loss of over £36,000 Mr C complained. He said he expected 
that, with the addition of further premiums, his pension ought to be worth more than it was in 
2017. 
Aviva acknowledged that it had provided incorrect information, but explained that Mr Cs 
pension plan had been overvalued from 2016 because of an error. This error wasnt 
discovered until after he contacted it in 2018. So, the correction which then took place wasnt 
evident until he obtained the valuation in October 2019.  Aviva sent Mr C a cheque for £450 
for the trouble an upset that it had caused. But Mr C wasnt happy with that outcome, so he 
brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and said that Avivas offer of £450 was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. But he said that  as Mr C wasnt entitled to the 
money that had been wrongly included in the earlier plan valuations, he couldnt tell Aviva to 
make up the value of the plan to its previous quotations.  
But Mr C didnt think this was fair. He said hed budgeted for his retirement based on the 
quotes hed been given previously but now had less money to live on. He thought hed been 
treated unfairly and wanted his complaint referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to 
me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration here and Ive seen how strongly he feels about this. Hes 
been led to believe his pension had a value  which he then used to determine the level of 
income he might have in his forthcoming retirement, only to find out that the pension value 
hed been given was incorrect and lower than he expected.
But I agree with the investigator here, and for broadly the same reasons. I know this 
outcome will disappoint Mr C  so Ill explain my reasons.
Each year from 2016 Mr C obtained fund valuations for his plan. Based on the increased 
valuations he was receiving I dont think he wouldnt have had any reason to doubt the 
validity of the figures and he was entitled to use that information to assess his position at his 
forthcoming retirement.  I can understand why he was so disappointed to find out that these 
figures were incorrect. 
Aviva has explained that, due to changes in its calculation of enhanced cash option factors 
in 2016, it inflated the transfer values for plans such as Mr Cs. This meant that the values he 
was given from 2016 to 2019 were incorrect and not representative of the true value of the 
plan. Aviva has also confirmed that the transfer value of Mr Cs plan in May 2018 should 
have been £203,857.13 and because of recent bonus rate decreases its overall value has 
since fallen by about 3.7%.  
Ive no reason to doubt Avivas explanation of matters here and Ive seen evidence of the 
effect this miscalculation had on annual illustrations. Aviva has also confirmed that this issue 
has affected a number of other policy holders, so I dont think the issue was confined to Mr C 
and was clearly a general error with these particular type of pension plans. 
So, while I can understand Mr Cs frustrations over the raising of his expectations in 
receiving a certain fund value, I dont think it would be fair to ask Aviva to honour the earlier 
higher values. Thats because Mr C was never entitled to those valuations and they were 
given out as a result of a genuine error by Aviva. It wouldnt be fair for Mr C to benefit from a 
value that didnt apply to his plan. 
But Aviva did make errors here  and the accuracy of the plan information it provided after 
2016 fell short of what Mr C might reasonably expect during this time, which raised his 
expectations of what he might receive in retirement. And Mr C has suggested that the impact 
of the error is that hell have less money to live on in retirement than hed previously 
budgeted for.
But Aviva has acknowledged its error and has explained that this problem affected a number 
of plan holders. It said it underestimated the effect the changes would have on those people. 
It also feels it should have highlighted the error sooner to the customers that were affected. 
So, I dont think Aviva handled this matter as well as it could have, and it should have 
realised the impact the inflated values would have had  which increased with each passing 
year that new illustrations were provided to Mr C.
I think the impact here on Mr C has been significant. His expectations of his retirement 
income were raised for an extended period, until he contacted Aviva in 2019. So, I dont take 
lightly the distress and inconvenience that Mr Cs suffered here. But overall, I think the sum 
offered is within the range of what Id expect to see for a matter such as this. So, Im not 
going to ask Aviva to do any more.
My final decision
My Decision is that the compensation Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already paid of 
£450 is fair. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman