DRN-2749260
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Bronte Investment Solutions Ltd (trading as Ebor Financial 
Planning Limited) delayed executing their instructions to move funds which they say led to 
financial loss. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K met with Ebors independent financial advisor on 11 February 2020. Ebor sent 
a letter the following day which provided a summary of the discussion and outlined the next 
steps. Mr and Mrs K told us that they hadnt been happy with the performance of their stocks 
and shares ISAs and this had been discussed at a previous review meeting. They wanted to 
move funds from their ISAs to investment bonds which they held as part of a Family Trust.  
Following the meeting, Ebor looked into the Family Trust. The advisor spoke to Mr K in early 
March 2020 and explained they were looking into the technicalities surrounding the trust and 
how the new investment should be set-up. Mr and Mrs K have told us that Ebor didnt 
explain what exactly they were looking into and theyd already received advice about the 
trust. 
On 24 March 2020, Ebor wrote out to Mr and Mrs K with a report which contained their 
recommendations. This included cashing in their investment bonds and opening new ones 
so that Mr and Mrs Ks children could be named as the lives assured, which Ebor felt was in 
line with their objectives. They also confirmed that on this occasion theyd decided to forego 
their reporting and implementation fee. 
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with the delay in receiving the report and emailed Ebor about 
this a couple of days later. They say the actions in relation to closing certain ISAs had been 
agreed in February 2020 and should have been carried out then. Therefore, they feel they 
were caused financial loss when the stock markets fell in March 2020. In April 2020, they 
instructed Ebor to withdraw funds from their ISAs.  
Ebor acknowledged the formal complaint and issued their final response on 7 April 2020. 
They explained their concerns were that the existing investment bonds held in trust were set 
up in a way which could potentially mean a significant tax charge on the gain. They said this 
would have impacted Mr and Mrs Ks children. Also, that they werent responsible for the fall 
in investment value which had been caused by the worldwide pandemic but that the strategy 
was long term. Therefore, they didnt uphold the complaint. 
 
Mr and Mrs K remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The investigator noted that 
Ebor had waived the fee and didnt ask them to do anything further. Ebor accepted the view, 
but Mr and Mrs K didnt. Therefore, the case passed to me. 
Mr and Mrs K also complained that the delay limited their opportunity to utilise their 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) allowance. I note that Mr and Mrs K accepted the 
investigators view about the ISA allowance. Therefore, it wont be considered in this 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delay
 
Ive reviewed the letter dated 12 February 2020. I can see it provides a summary of the 
discussion between Ebor and Mr and Mrs K during the meeting on 11 February. It confirmed 
that funds were to be moved from a stocks and shares ISA to investment bonds which were 
held within the Family Trust. In the letter, Ebor confirmed that they would write again in 
relation to the actions required. The letter also confirmed that a review was part of the 
services paid for by Mr and Mrs K. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ks comments that they had expected action to be taken 
promptly after the meeting. Theyve explained their previous experience following review 
meetings suggested that action would be taken in around two to four weeks. 
 
However, Ive seen on 4 March 2020 the adviser called Mr and Mrs K to explain that the 
actions were on hold whilst he looked into the technicalities. There is no call recording 
available, but Ive reviewed the call note and it seems Mr K understood this. The note 
doesnt indicate that the advisor explained exactly what was being looked into. But Im of the 
view it was reasonable to have provided the update and Ive not seen evidence that Mr and 
Mrs K asked for further information. Therefore, I cant say Ebor did anything wrong here.
I can see the report was sent on 24 March 2020. Ebor have said, depending on obtaining the 
relevant information, it usually takes around four weeks to provide the report. Ebor explained 
that they needed to investigate the trust and the tax implications. Theyd noted that Mr and 
Mrs K wanted the trust for the benefit of their children. But the children were not named as 
the lives assured and they advised that this could lead to significant tax implications. 
Therefore, the recommendation was to open new bonds with Mr and Mrs Ks children named 
as the lives assured.
 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K feel that they had already been appropriately advised about the 
investment bonds and trust in January 2017. They say they had no plans to change this and 
it wasnt discussed at the review meeting. But I would expect Ebor to thoroughly consider 
this so they could ensure their current recommendations were suitable. They understood 
that Mr and Mrs K wanted the trust to ultimately benefit their children and so it was 
appropriate for Ebor to consider any tax implications to them. This is something I would 
expect Ebor to look into when doing a full review and Im not persuaded the time they took to 
do this was unreasonable. 
Ive reviewed the email correspondence following the report. I can see on 28 March 2020 Mr 
and Mrs K provided instructions to withdraw and transfer funds. The instructions werent in 
line with Ebors recommendation. Therefore, the advisor emailed them on 30 March to 
confirm their instructions. Mr and Mrs K confirmed their instructions on the same day. 
Following this, the relevant forms were sent to Mr and Mrs K and duly returned.
Im not persuaded the timeframes here were unreasonable. This is because Ebor received 
the forms on 6 April 2020 and have explained it can take up to two weeks. I also note that 
instructions were provided over the Easter period. In any event, Mr and Mrs K cancelled their previous instruction on 20 April 2020 and asked 
Ebor to cash in their ISAs and transfer the funds to their bank account instead. At this time, 
the value was lower after the stock markets reacted negatively to the global pandemic. But 
the recommendations from Ebor in February and March 2020 had always been to reinvest 
with a long-term strategy in mind. This would have provided time for the markets to improve 
and to see a potential increase to the value of investments. Ive not seen anything to suggest 
it was planned to hold the investments as cash.
I also note that the advice followed a full review of Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances. Its 
reasonable that a full report was conducted based on the circumstances as that is part of the 
service which Mr and Mrs K pay for. Ebor wanted to ensure there were no negative tax 
implications from their advice. Therefore, Im not persuaded they unreasonably delayed 
taking action. 
It is unfortunate that the advice came at a time when the pandemic was affecting investment 
performance significantly. But I would still expect Ebor to spend time providing full advice on 
Mr and Mrs Ks situation. Ebor did so and made their recommendations. However, Mr and 
Mrs K provided firm instructions to encash their ISAs at a time when performance had 
dropped. It was encashing the ISAs that led to the financial loss. 
Nevertheless, Ebor chose to waive their reporting and implementation fee for the advice. 
Although Im not persuaded there was unreasonable delay, Ebor did spend time looking at 
the tax implications and acknowledged this. Therefore, waiving the fee appropriately 
recognises this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold the complaint and I wont be asking Bronte 
Investment Solutions Ltd (trading as Ebor Financial Planning Limited) to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman