DRN-1494486
 
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the success fee charged by Claim Easy Ltd following compensation 
paid by lender L.
What happened
Mrs L signed a letter authority (LOA) instructing Claim Easy to represent her in making 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claims against lender L in May 2016. This LOA showed 
reference number ending 715. The terms and conditions explained that Claim Easy would 
charge 30% plus VAT in the event of a successful claim. 
Lender L wrote to Claim Easy on 21 June 2016 saying that Mrs L had already complained in 
2013 about the same credit card account, and theyd sent a final response letter to this 
complaint on 18 October 2013. Claim Easy wrote to Mrs L on 4 August 2016 saying that 
lender L state that a claim has already been submitted on account numbers [XXX]; We are 
therefore currently unable to pursue a claim on these accounts. 
On 9 May 2016 Claim Easy wrote to Mrs L saying that they could make a complaint about 
the commission charged with the sale of PPI for the credit card account previously 
complained of under reference number ending in 715. 
Mrs L signed a LOA on 13 May 2019, also showing reference number ending 715. On 17 
June 2019 lender L wrote to Claim Easy and Mrs L agreeing to pay compensation for mis-
sold PPI against Mrs Ls credit card account. The offer letter explained Ive reassessed your 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) concerns and I'm changing our original decision. 
Claim Easy wrote to Mrs L informing her that as the claim with lender L had been successful, 
their success fee was due. Mrs L complained to Claim Easy about them chasing for their fee, 
saying that she hadnt instructed them. Claim Easy didnt agree to waive their invoice, and 
so Mrs L brought her complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial 
Ombudsman service) for investigation. 
The investigator found that Claim Easy had acted reasonably in making the claim, and 
charging their invoice. Mrs L disagreed, saying somebody has forged my signature, and 
she couldnt have signed any forms as she had her hands all done up. Mrs L said she 
remembers Claim Easy representing her in a claim with lender H, and she paid their success 
fee around 7 years ago for this claim. She says she didnt provide authority for any other 
claims. As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence I agree 
with the investigators findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs L but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs L says she was very poorly around 2016, and in and out of hospital, and has been ever 
since. She was having medical treatment on her hands. Because of this, she wouldnt have 
signed any LOAs with Claim Easy for lender L in either 2016 or 2019. 
When there are different versions of whats happened provided by a business and a 
customer, we need to make a decision based on what we think has happened on balance. I 
dont doubt that what Mrs L has told me is how she remembers it. I can appreciate it mustve 
been upsetting for Mrs L to hear about a claim, and receive an invoice, when she feels 
strongly she hadnt given permission for Claim Easy to act on her behalf. 
Mrs L has also explained that she does recall instructing Claim Easy for a claim against 
lender H. She also recalls paying Claim Easy their success fee for this claim. Claim Easy 
have provided evidence showing that Mrs L instructed them in January 2016 for the claim 
against lender H. On balance I think its more likely than not that Mrs L did sign a LOA for 
lender L the same year she instructed Claim Easy for lender H. 
Ive considered that the first response from lender L was in 2013- before Claim Easy were 
instructed. But the evidence shows Claim Easy were instructed in 2016 so its reasonable 
that I consider their role in whats happened.  
Claim Easy relied on the information returned by lender L saying that Mrs Ls credit card 
account had already been complained of, and this complaint couldnt be taken any further. If 
lender L had correctly reviewed the claim in 2016, Mrs Ls claim would most likely have been 
successful at that time, and Claim Easys success fee wouldve become payable in line with 
the terms agreed to by Mrs L.
In 2019, Claim Easy contacted Mrs L to say that they could make a complaint about the 
commission charged at the time the PPI was sold. Its more likely than not that it was 
because of this LOA being sent to lender L that lender L re-reviewed Mrs Ls claim about PPI 
sold with her credit card. In reaching this decision, Ive taken into account the offer letter sent 
in 2019 which was sent to both Mrs L and Claim Easy. The offer letter also included the 
claim reference number ending 715, matching the signed LOAs Ive seen copies of. 
I havent seen any evidence to support that Mrs L contacted lender L herself, and it was 
because of this that the claim was reviewed by lender L in 2019. So I think its fair to say that 
the claim was successful because of Claim Easys involvement. 
The terms and conditions explained that Claim Easy would charge 30% plus VAT in the 
event of a successful claim. As Mrs Ls claim was successful I think Claim Easy have acted 
in line with the terms and conditions by charging Mrs L their success fee. So I wont be 
asking Claim Easy to pay any compensation, or do anything in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman