DRN-4058146
The complaint
Mr K complains about administration services provided by Broker Direct Plc (Broker Direct) 
in relation to two claims on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K took out an insurance policy using a broker and was referred to Broker Direct to deal 
with the administration following an incident which led to his car being damaged. Mr K 
contacted Broker Direct again a few months later to report a second claim. Mr K complained 
to Broker Direct as he wasnt happy with their handling of his claims. Broker Direct 
responded and acknowledged Mr K had contacted them to make a claim following his car 
being struck by a wheelbarrow but he decided to not pursue the claim. They said Mr K did 
contact them about a further claim which they referred to the underwriter due to a 
discrepancy in the information provided. Broker Direct said they called Mr K to get some 
further information, but this call was terminated by them as they found Mr Ks language and 
comments unacceptable. Broker Direct said they referred this to the underwriter and a 
decision was made to cancel Mr Ks policy for breach of the policy terms and conditions. 
Broker Direct offered to re-open Mr Ks claim for further review but explained this would be 
subject to his full cooperation.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. He thought Broker Direct hadnt acted 
unreasonably. Mr K disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr K will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of different businesses in insurance 
I think its important to firstly make clear the role of various parties in insurance. When taking 
out insurance, a customer will often communicate with an insurance intermediary who is 
responsible for arranging, selling and administering the policy  often this will be a broker. 
The insurer is the business which underwrites the policy, and they will make a decision on 
claims. 
There are occasions where a separate insurance intermediary will provide administration 
services relating to a policy or claim  and that is Broker Directs role here. It appears Broker 
Direct are responsible for taking details of a claim and then passing this to the insurer to 
make a decision.  
The claims 
Ive listened to Mr Ks call to Broker Direct to report his first claim. During this call Mr K 
explains there was a note left on his car from someone claiming theyd seen another person 
hit a wheelbarrow into Mr K s car. During the call its established the identity of the third 
party isnt known and, after explaining the policy excess, Mr K doesnt wish to proceed with a 
claim and its treated as notification only. I acknowledge Mr K was becoming frustrated 
during this call, particularly with the questions being asked and time taken. During the call, 
the agent does explain they need to take full details in case another party does come 
forward with a claim or more information. I dont think this was unreasonable as Broker 
Directs role is to take details of a claim  and this allows them to progress matters if further 
information later comes to light which might support a claim.  
A few months later, Mr K calls Broker Direct again to report a separate incident. Mr K 
explains his car window was smashed and a laptop and toolbox were stolen. Broker Direct 
ask Mr K what his occupation is, and he explains he was a builder but is out of work now. 
Broker Direct ask how long Mr K has been unemployed and he gives a date about a month 
before. Broker Direct say Mr K declared his occupation as a full-time employed builder when 
taking out the policy so they referred the matter to the underwriter given the discrepancy in 
Mr Ks occupation details. 
Broker Direct then try to call Mr K a couple of weeks later but as there was no answer, they 
leave a voicemail message. Broker Direct then call Mr K to discuss the claim in more detail. 
Broker Direct say Mr K used offensive language during this call so it had to be terminated. 
Ive listened to this call, and I dont think Broker Directs view of this call is unreasonable. 
During the call the agent does explain to Mr K theyll be unable to continue with the call if he 
continues using offensive language  and because this continues, the agent terminates the 
call. 
Broker Direct closed the first claim on the basis Mr K didnt wish to proceed, and the second 
claim because they felt Mr K wasnt cooperating. I acknowledge Mr K is upset about his 
claims not being settled but I cant say Broker Direct have acted unreasonably here when 
providing administration services for the two claims. Having listened to the calls, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Broker Direct to take the view Mr K didnt wish to proceed with the 
first claim and he wasnt cooperating with them in relation to the second claim. I can see they 
have offered to re-open the second claim but this is subject to Mr K cooperating  and I think 
thats reasonable in the circumstances.  
Cancellation of the policy  
Following the terminated call, Broker Direct took the view Mr Ks language was offensive and 
brought this to the attention of the underwriter. The underwriter then wrote to Mr K giving him 
seven days notice of their decision to cancel his policy  and this was then cancelled. I 
acknowledge Mr K was left frustrated by this decision as he then had to find a policy with 
another insurer. But, while the cancellation decision was made by the underwriter, I dont 
think Broker Directs decision to refer it to the underwriter for a cancellation decision was 
unreasonable. Ive seen the notice letter sent by the underwriter and this specifically refers to 
the incident leading to the call being terminated as being the reason for the cancellation.       
Mr Ks other complaint points 
Its clear from the phone calls, Mr K has concerns about issues which arent connected to 
Broker Direct. He feels he hasnt been given the option to take out third-party insurance 
which he says wouldve been cheaper than taking out fully comprehensive insurance. I 
acknowledge Mr Ks concern, but this would involve the sales process followed by Mr K when taking out any insurance cover and not something for which Broker Direct are 
responsible. 
I note Mr K raises concerns about being left waiting for roadside recovery following the 
breakdown of his car at a petrol station. I am sorry to learn about the problems this caused 
for Mr K but Broker Direct confirm this breakdown cover hasnt been arranged through them. 
Ive reviewed the policy and I cant see any cover for this has been arranged through Broker 
Direct. I would encourage Mr K to contact the breakdown/roadside recovery provider to raise 
any concerns or to check with them who he should make a complaint to about this issue. 
During the calls, Mr K also explains he heard staff at the broker laughing at him. I am sorry 
to hear Mr K was left upset by this, but this complaint would need to be made to the broker. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr K had with Broker Direct and I cant say there were any issues in 
their approach or behaviour towards Mr K. 
I wish to reassure Mr K Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman