DRN-1557470
The complaint
Miss T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc has added interest to her credit card balance 
incorrectly. 
What happened
Miss T opened a credit card with Capital One in June 2019. The card had a credit limit of 
£200. Miss T used the card over a period of months to make purchase transactions and 
cash withdrawals. Each month a statement was issued showing the transactions and 
payments Miss T made on the account and the interest charged.
But Miss T says the interest has been charged incorrectly and would like Capital one to 
refund it to her. 
Capital One says the interest has been charged in line with the accounts terms and 
conditions. But it acknowledges that it sent Miss T a letter which it shouldnt have done, so it 
credited her account with £10 to apologise. It also said that Miss T had mentioned that she 
didnt recognise some transactions on her statement. So, it urged her to contact its fraud 
department.
Miss T didnt agree with Capital One. So, she referred the matter to us. In addition to the 
above, Miss T She also said she was in financial difficulty.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. In summary, she said the interest had 
been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And she thought Miss T 
ought to have been aware that interest would be added monthly to the outstanding amount 
showing on her statement. So, she didnt think Capital One had done anything wrong in 
respect of charging interest on Miss Ts outstanding credit card balance. So she didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Miss T didnt agree with this. She explained that she had been making payments to her 
account each month, so she didnt understand why interest had been charged. And, while 
she confirmed there werent any transactions on the account that she didnt recognise and 
that shed never spoken to Capital One about being in financial difficulty, she didnt think the 
£10 paid by it was enough. 
The investigator explained further that interest had been charged in accordance with the 
terms and conditions because Miss T hadnt repaid the balance in full. And that she thought 
£10 adequately recognised the inconvenience of receiving an incorrect letter. She also said 
Miss T needed to speak to Capital One if she was in financial difficulty in the first instance 
and before this service could consider this point. So, she did not alter the overall outcome 
she had reached about Miss Ts complaint. 
Miss T agreed that she should contact Capital One about her financial situation but remained 
unhappy about the interest applied to the account and the £10 inconvenience payment. So, 
this complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T has told us that she didnt raise her financial difficulties with Capital One as part of 
this complaint. And she has confirmed she recognises the transactions on her account. So, I 
see no reason to consider these points further in this decision. 
For clarity, this decision is solely about the interest applied to Miss Ts account and the 
payment she received for the inconvenience of being sent an incorrect letter.
Its clear from Miss Ts correspondence that she has an expectation that we can tell   Capital 
One to refund the interest she has been charged. But we are an impartial service. We look at 
what has happened, and I can only uphold this complaint and tell Capital One to make a 
refund if I find it has applied the interest incorrectly. 
But, having considered everything, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know Miss T will be disappointed as I can see 
she feels strongly about this matter. So, Ill explain why: 
I think its important to explain here that I accept that Miss T was making the monthly 
repayments to her credit card account. But, the terms of her account explain that interest is 
payable on cash withdrawals from the date of the withdrawal. And further interest is due on 
both cash withdrawals and purchases if the full balance outstanding is not repaid each 
month. 
Here, as I said, its not in dispute that Miss T was maintaining her account correctly  in that 
she was making at least the minimum payment due each month. But her statements show 
that after she made her payment each month, a balance was still outstanding. As Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that Miss T was on a 0% promotional interest rate, Im satisfied 
interest was due. And Ive not seen anything that would make me think the amount of 
interest charged has been calculated incorrectly. So, Im not going to tell Capital One to 
refund the interest it has charged. If Miss T wishes to avoid interest going forward, she will 
need to repay the outstanding balance as shown on her monthly statement each month in 
full. I note from Miss T's latest correspondence that she has since missed making a monthly 
payment. I would urge Miss T to continue to make - at least, the minimum monthly 
repayment in order to avoid any charges and further interest that the terms allow to be 
added in these circumstances.
Capital One has accepted that it sent an incorrect letter to Miss T. It has paid Miss T £10 in 
recognition of this mistake. It was credited to her account on 9 December 2019. Ive looked 
at a copy of the letter. The letter was informing Miss T about the eight-week time frame 
Capital One has to respond to complaints. Capital One has said  on this occasion, it should 
not have sent this particular letter to Miss T. But I consider it to be a standard complaint 
update letter. So, I dont think Miss T wouldve been unduly inconvenienced by the receipt of 
it  particularly, as Capital One issued its response to her complaint soon afterwards. So, I 
think the £10 paid to Miss Ts account is fair in the circumstances. And Im not going to ask 
Capital One to pay any further compensation in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman