DRN-1847100
The complaint
Miss Ws complaint is about Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos 
applying a late fee to her account when she hadnt received a statement showing her the 
payment amount due.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Miss W entered into a credit agreement with Argos in 2013 and in doing so agreed to 
its terms and conditions. These included making the minimum payments each month.
Miss W said that she hadnt used her Argos card for a while and then used it in 
October 2019. She said she didnt receive a statement for that month and so wasnt 
aware of the minimum payment she needed to make before 8 November 2019. I can 
understand how upsetting this must have been, but Argos has provided evidence to 
show that the October 2019 statement was issued. This contained the information it 
needed regarding the minimum payment amount and date. 
As Miss W had made use of the card previously and maintained her payments I find 
it reasonable to accept that she was aware of how the card worked. I find that she 
should have been expecting a statement in October and when this didnt arrive she 
could have taken action to find out her payment amount. This would have allowed 
her to make the payment in time. 
Miss W called Argos on 8 November and asked if she could make a payment. She 
checked her balance but didnt mention that she hadnt received a statement. She 
was happy to be transferred to the automated payment service at that time but 
unfortunately a payment wasnt made that day. Given Miss Ws request, I do not find 
that the adviser should have realised Miss W needed further information about the 
minimum payment due. 
Miss W called Argos again a few days later about making a payment. She said she 
had thought a payment was due around 12 November. This suggests she was aware 
that a payment needed to be made at this time. Unfortunately, as the payment was 
due by 8 November, a late payment fee and interest had been applied to Miss Ws 
account. I can understand why this upset Miss W and appreciate her comments 
about how she managed her account, but as she didnt make the minimum payment 
on her account by 8 November 2019, I do not find that Argos did anything wrong by 
applying a late payment fee. 
Miss W said that Argos called her on her landline and said that she didnt need to pay 
the late payment fee. Argos was unable to locate this call and so agreed to remove 
the fee. I find this reasonable. 
Argos said that the late payment marker would remain on Miss Ws credit file. While I 
can understand why Miss W wants this removed, as she didnt make the minimum 
payment due in November 2019 by the due date, and I cannot say that Argos did 
anything wrong regarding the statement or the call made when Miss W said she 
wanted to make a payment, I do not find that Argos is required to remove this 
marker. While I accept that Miss W may have never intended to miss a payment, as 
the payment was missed I cannot say that that Argos did anything wrong by applying 
the charge.
My final decision
My final decision is that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos should 
refund Miss W the £12 late payment fee as it offered. I do not require it to take any further 
action regarding the marker on her credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman