DRN-3843003
The complaint
Mr S complains that Phoenix Life Limited has failed to continue with the payment of a 
Waiver of Premium (WOP) benefit that forms part of his pension plan.
What happened
Mr S holds pension savings with Phoenix. The pension plan was originally sold to him by 
Abbey Life. But that firm is now the responsibility of Phoenix, so it is Phoenix that needs to 
deal with this complaint. In my decision, for ease, I will generally just refer to Phoenix, but 
due to their nature, some historic terms and conditions information will refer to Abbey Life.
When he took out his pension plan Mr S elected to pay WOP premiums. I will discuss the 
specific terms of that benefit later in this decision, but at a very high level, WOP provided for 
any monthly pension contributions to continue to be paid should Mr S be off work through 
ill-health for a period of more than six months.
Mr S contracted a serious illness in March 2020, and as a result he spent more than four 
months in hospital, much of which was in intensive care. Due to complications arising from 
that illness Mr S has been left with what his consultant describes as permanent neurological 
deficits. And subsequent to the medical episode Mr S has required surgery to both his hands 
that has also left some permanent residual loss of function.
Phoenix accepted Mr Ss WOP claim in March 2021, but advised him that its medical 
advisors would continue to review the claim at regular intervals. Phoenix requested some 
further information from Mr S about his health, and the activities of his business, in June and 
July 2021. Following a review of that information Phoenix wrote to Mr S to advise that it 
would be discontinuing his WOP benefits.
Mr S complained to Phoenix about its decision. Phoenix explained that, in line with the 
relevant terms and conditions he hadnt shown, to the satisfaction of Phoenix, that he 
remained prevented from undertaking work. It said that Mr S had confirmed he was 
directing operations of his pre-disability employment in a limited capacity, and receiving an 
income.
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He looked at the terms and 
conditions that Phoenix had said were applicable to the WOP benefit. He thought that the 
medical evidence supported Mr Ss claim that he was unable to work due to his ongoing 
illness. So he thought that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld and he asked Phoenix to 
reinstate Mr Ss WOP plan, together with refunding the pension contributions Mr S had made 
since the WOP benefit had been terminated.
Phoenix didnt agree with that assessment. It said that the terms and conditions of the 
benefits said that if Mr S was in receipt of any earned income, from any source, the WOP 
had to cease. But when the investigator asked for a copy of those terms, Phoenix said that 
its response had been in error. It said that its decision to terminate the claim had nothing to 
do with Mr Ss medical condition, or whether he had an income. Instead Phoenix said that it 
was relying on clause 7(b) of the terms and conditions. It noted that Mr S admitted being 
involved in the day to day running of his business. And so, no matter how small that 
involvement was, Mr S is not, to the satisfaction of Phoenix [their emphasis] prevented from 
work so the claim fails. It says that approach is consistent with how it treats other claimants 
in the same position.
The investigator issued a further assessment. He noted that Mr S had clarified his working 
activities saying that his business was not actively trading and no new projects were being 
undertaken. And routine matters, such as the payment of bills, were being performed by 
Mr Ss wife and daughter. So the investigator remained of the view that the complaint should 
be upheld and Mr Ss WOP benefit reinstated.
Phoenix still didnt agree with that conclusion. It sent us an alternative set of terms and 
conditions. It said that for the claim to succeed Mr S would need to be unable to perform ALL 
the duties he would have undertaken before his illness. Whilst it accepted there would be 
parts of the role Mr S could no longer perform due to his illness, it thought some aspects 
could continue such as sending/receiving emails and telephone calls, reviewing business 
accounts, making decisions, and making quotations for ongoing or new projects. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr S accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr S and by Phoenix. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think it would first be appropriate for me to set out my understanding of Mr Ss current 
health situation, and the impact it has on his ability to undertake paid work. In doing so 
I have carefully considered the reports I have been sent from his medical practitioners. And 
in addition I have reviewed information provided by Mr S about the work he was doing before 
his illness, the work he is able to do now, and the extent of the weekly rehabilitation activities 
that his doctors have directed him to undertake.Before his illness, Mr S has explained that he ran a building consultancy firm, identifying 
suitable properties for investors and project managing their renovation. He says that since 
his illness the business has not taken on any new work, and the limited activities he has 
undertaken, with extensive support from his wife and daughter, have been to simply perform 
basic administrative functions or support his customers to identify alternative contractors to 
resolve problems on previous projects. Mr S confirms that, during the recent pandemic, and 
on the advice of his accountant, he received furlough payments via the Coronavirus Job 
Retention Scheme.
It seems clear to me that the medical evidence, and Mr Ss testimony, shows that he is not 
able to undertake the work that he previously did before his illness. Given he was effectively 
self-employed, as he was the sole director of his own limited company, I think the extent of 
his ability to work can be reasonably demonstrated by the lack of activity of his company. 
I have seen nothing to suggest that Mr Ss testimony, that his business has not taken on any 
new work since his illness, is untrue. So that would support a conclusion that Mr S has been 
unable to perform any meaningful work since his illness.
As I mentioned earlier, Phoenix appears to have had some difficulty in determining the 
specific test that it should apply when considering whether Mr S is entitled to benefits under 
his WOP policy. It initially told Mr S that his claim had been terminated since he was 
directing operations of his pre-disability employment in a limited capacity, and receiving an 
income. It later provided us with what it said were the relevant terms and conditions (dated 
December 1996) that suggested the test should be that Mr S was prevented from carrying 
out the duties of his Employment prior to disablement.
In response to our investigators first assessment, Phoenix initially told us that the test it now 
thought should apply was whether Mr S was in receipt of any earned income, from any 
source. It later agreed that was incorrect and provided a new set of terms and conditions. 
Those said that the relevant test was once more that Mr S was prevented from carrying out 
the duties pertaining to his employment prior to disablement. It noted that those terms didnt 
say how many of the duties Mr S needed to be unable to perform. It said that no matter how 
small Mr Ss activities were, his claim would fail if he undertook any tasks.
And finally, in response to our investigators second assessment, Phoenix provided a further 
set of terms and conditions. Those showed the relevant test to be that Mr S is prevented 
from carrying out the duties pertaining to his employment prior to disablement and is not 
following any other gainful occupation.
At the outset I must say how concerning it is that, on four separate occasions, Phoenix has 
provided us, and Mr S, with different explanations of the test it is applying when considering 
his WOP claim. That cannot give me, or Mr S, any confidence that the claim is being 
considered properly and in line with the relevant provisions of Mr Ss policy. 
But, given the importance of accurately identifying the test that should be applied to Mr Ss 
claim, I asked Phoenix to provide what it considers to be the definitive terms of the WOP 
policy, together with evidence that those terms apply to Mr S. It has told us that Mr Ss 
pension plan commenced in April 1997. So the terms applicable to his plan were those first 
sent to us, and dated December 1996.The applicable terms, that Phoenix has said it is relying on, appear in section 7(b) of those 
terms. They say;
Abbey Life will waive payment of Regular Contributions payable during periods of 
disability prior to the Policyholder attaining the Waiver of Contribution Benefit Expiry 
Age shown on Page 1 of the Policy if the Policyholder becomes disabled through 
sickness or injury such that to the satisfaction of Abbey Life, he or she is prevented 
from carrying out the duties pertaining to his or her Employment prior to 
disablement. 
Ive thought carefully about how those terms apply to Mr Ss current situation. I do not agree 
that a fair interpretation of the terms would suggest that if Mr S was able to perform even the 
smallest part of his pre-disability employment his WOP claim should fail. The WOP policy is 
clearly designed to support consumers who experience a cessation of their normal income 
due to being unable to work through illness or other disability. It seems clear, as I explained 
earlier, that Mr Ss illness has meant he is unable to perform any income generating 
activities for his company. And given the lack of other staff to perform those activities, the 
normal work that took place before the illness has ceased. And so I think that leads to a 
logical conclusion that Mr Ss ability to earn income from that company has similarly 
stopped. And this is further supported by what Mr S has told us about there being no active 
trading, or new projects, from which any income might reasonably arise.
I have considered that Mr S received furlough payments for some of this period. But I think 
the very nature of that scheme suggests that Mr S wasnt working at that time. Furlough 
payments could only be made to employees that werent performing any aspects of their role 
for the company. So I cannot agree with Phoenix that Mr S receiving furlough payments 
suggests that he was still working, or able to work, at that time. There is no consideration in 
the relative terms to whether or not income is being received  just that a consumer is 
disabled such that he is unable to carry out the duties of his employment.
There is a further aspect of the terms and conditions that I need to consider. The terms that 
Phoenix has said apply to this claim also require the prevention of employment to be proved 
to the satisfaction of Abbey Life [now Phoenix]. Clearly, regardless of what I say in this 
decision, it could be argued that Phoenix would not be satisfied that the claim had been 
proven. 
But I am required to decide this complaint on the basis of what I think is fair and reasonable. 
And, since I am minded that it is unfair for Phoenix to conclude that Mr S hasnt been 
prevented from carrying out the duties relating to his employment prior to his disablement, 
I think it would be unfair for Phoenix to not apply those findings to its consideration of his 
claim. So I am satisfied that it is reasonable to direct Phoenix to pay Mr Ss claim.
Phoenix is entirely at liberty to continue to review Mr Ss eligibility for his WOP benefit as 
time goes on. The medical evidence Mr S has provided suggested that, at that time, he was 
unable to work in any capacity. But it accepted that, given the relatively new nature of Mr Ss 
illness, the prognosis for any meaningful recovery and return to work was uncertain. I would 
however expect Phoenix to take my comments in this decision into consideration when it 
completes any future assessment of Mr Ss claim. Should Mr S be unhappy with the results 
of any future review, he would be free to make a new complaint about that decision. 
There is no doubt that the termination of Mr Ss WOP claim, at a time when he was dealing 
with serious and on-going health problems will have caused him distress and inconvenience. 
So to compensate him for that I am directing that Phoenix should pay Mr S an additional 
sum of £300.Putting things right
Phoenix should reinstate Mr Ss WOP claim and commence paying him the applicable 
benefits under his plan.
Phoenix should additionally compensate Mr S for any benefits he should have received 
since the claim was terminated. Phoenix should add simple interest at a rate of 8% per 
annum to each of these amounts from the date they should have been paid to the date of 
settlement. HM Revenue & Customs requires Phoenix to take off tax from this interest. 
Phoenix must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Phoenix should additionally pay Mr S the sum of £300 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience its handling of his WOP claim has caused to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Phoenix Life Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman