DRN-2713568
The complaint
Miss S complains about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) dealt with 
her claim on her motor insurance policy. 
Miss S is represented in her complaint. But Ill only refer to her in my decision.
What happened
Miss S was involved in a car accident on 11 December 2019. Her car was deemed a write 
off on 15 December 2019. She says Admiral managed the recovery of her vehicle well, but 
that the settlement process was poor. 
Miss S was entitled to a courtesy car as shed paid for a hire vehicle add-on to her motor 
insurance policy. A hire car was available for up to 21 days after the accident. Under the 
policy terms, it had to be returned within seven days of Admiral authorising the settlement 
payment to Miss S.
Between 15 December 2019 and 17 December 2019 Admiral made a number of 
unsuccessful attempts to speak to Miss S to discuss the settlement figure for her car. They 
e-mailed her on 15 December 2019 for the same reason. Miss S returned their call on 17 
December 2019 and said she needed time to consider the settlement theyd offered.
On 19 December 2019, Miss S e-mailed Admiral disputing their valuation. She provided
further details. Admiral tried to speak to her about this on the same day. But had to leave a 
voicemail. They e-mailed Miss S that day to tell her theyd increased their valuation offer and 
had raised a payment.
Admiral attempted to contact Miss S again on 20 December 2019 and 23 December 2019.
They eventually spoke to her on 27 December 2019. In this call, Admiral told her they felt 
theyd valued the vehicle accurately and wouldnt agree to increase the settlement figure 
further. Miss S accepted their offer. Admiral also told her theyd already posted a cheque for 
the agreed amount to her.
Unhappy with the settlement process, Miss S complained to Admiral. She said theyd:
raised a total loss payment as a cheque prior to her accepting the offer
used the wrong payment method
only made an electronic payment after the cheque was cancelled
due to the above issues, caused the hire vehicle to be removed early
dealt badly with her complaint
Admiral didnt uphold her complaint. They said they couldnt see any errors in the handling of 
her policy. So Miss S brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that Admiral 
had dealt with the claim in an appropriate manner. 
Miss S didnt agree. So her complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at each of the issues that Miss S raised, but I cant find anything wrong 
or unfair in the way that Admiral handled this claim. I think it was dealt with promptly and 
fairly under the terms and conditions of the policy. So I wont be upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Raising the cheque prior to Miss Ss acceptance of the settlement offer
Miss S complains that Admiral sent her a cheque for the amount they said they owed her, 
even though she hadnt agreed the settlement figure. 
I can see that Admiral attempted to contact Miss S several times before they sent the 
payment. I can reassure Miss S that accepting the cheque as an interim payment wouldnt 
have been seen as conceding that that was all she was entitled to. Nor would it affect her 
ability to ask for an increased settlement figure. We would expect payment following a total 
loss to be made as soon as possible to enable someone in Miss Ss position to have a head 
start in replacing her car.
Miss S has explained that the rest of her complaint followed from Admirals decision to send 
the settlement cheque on 19 December 2019. I dont consider that Admiral did anything 
wrong in the way it raised the cheque prior to Miss Ss acceptance of the settlement offer. 
But I will look at each of her other complaint points in turn.
Using the wrong payment method
Admiral raised a cheque for the settlement amount on 19 December 2019. In their final 
response letter, they explained why a cheque had been sent, rather than a bank transfer, 
Miss Ss preferred method of payment. They said: Unfortunately, as we did not have any 
bank details on file for you, we were not in a position to raise a bank transfer for you. As  
we are not able to withhold a payment from you, this was then raised via cheque.
Miss S says she was in a state of shock after the accident. And that her main concern was to 
obtain a fair valuation. In normal circumstances she wouldve requested a bank transfer as 
this wouldve been the quickest method of receiving the settlement. But I cant hold Admiral 
responsible for that. They tried to contact her but couldnt. And they didnt have her bank 
details. So no other payment method was available to them.
Ive checked the policy terms and can see no reference to the method Admiral must use for 
cash settlement payments. So I dont consider that they did anything wrong when they 
attempted to use a cheque as the method of payment.
Only making an electronic payment after the cheque was cancelled
Miss S was disappointed that Admiral wouldnt process the bank transfer shed requested
until the cheque theyd issued had been cancelled. I can see that this delayed her getting the 
settlement payment, which mustve been frustrating. But I consider that it was fair and 
reasonable for them to wait until the cheque had been cancelled so that the payment wasnt 
accidentally made twice. So I dont think Admiral did anything wrong.
Causing the hire vehicle to be removed early
The policy document for the hire vehicle cover Admiral provided states:The hire vehicle must be returned to [business name] or its designated agent no
later than 7 days after payment is authorised to the policyholder on [business names] total
loss valuation of their claim or no later than the 21st day of hire (whichever comes first).
I can see that Admiral told Miss S that the settlement payment had been authorised on 19 
December 2019. I understand that Miss S says she hadnt agreed to the settlement payment 
at that point. But she did agree to it shortly after. Admiral tried to discuss the settlement offer 
with her after receiving her email on 19 December 2019. When they couldnt, they sent an 
email and left a voicemail message to inform her about the increased valuation and raised 
the payment.
Miss Ss hire car was terminated on 26 December 2019. But the vehicle wasnt collected
until 3 January 2020 due to the Christmas holidays. 
Im satisfied that Admiral followed the policy wording and that the hire car was terminated 
correctly on 26 December 2019. So I cant see that they did anything wrong.
How the complaint was dealt with
Miss S feels that its surprising that Admiral didnt realise that she needed support through 
this difficult time in her life. She feels they shouldve dealt with her more sensitively. But from 
what I can see, Admiral acted professionally and treated Miss S fairly and in the same way 
as they wouldve treated anyone else in similar circumstances. They had no way of knowing 
she needed special treatment. So Im not persuaded that they did anything wrong in the way 
they dealt with her claim.
 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Admiral followed the correct process for 
investigating the complaint. 
I have no doubt that involvement in the accident and the loss of her car was deeply upsetting 
for Miss S. But Im equally satisfied that Admiral dealt with the claim efficiently and fairly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman