DRN-1864756
The complaint
Miss R complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) unfairly cancelled her income 
protection policy, and handled her claim poorly. 
Miss Rs complaint is brought on her behalf by a representative. But for ease, I will refer to 
all submissions as having been made by Miss R herself.
What happened
Miss R held an income protection policy with Aviva. In the event of her becoming 
incapacitated, the policy would pay a monthly benefit, after a four week waiting period. 
In June 2019, Miss R made a claim against her policy, as she said she had been unable to 
work due to anxiety and depression.
After requesting and reviewing Miss Rs medical records, Aviva said itd found references to 
additional medical conditions Miss R hadnt declared when taking out her policy. In 
particular, it pointed to a consultation with her GP about back pain and a change in 
prescription for a pain relief medication. 
Ultimately Aviva declined the claim. It said this was because Miss R hadnt declared all of 
her pre-existing medical conditions when she took out the policy. And Aviva cancelled 
Miss Rs policy.
Miss R complained to Aviva about its decision and also the way her claim had been handled. 
She said she hadnt been kept updated and had to chase multiple times. She also said she 
wasnt informed of the decision about her claim, and only became aware of this via 
a communication to her employer about the cancellation of her policy. 
Aviva apologised the claim hadnt been well managed. It offered Miss R £500 in 
compensation, and said it would refund the premiums shed paid for the policy. However it 
maintained itd been correct to decline the claim and cancel the policy. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Miss R brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened. She said she didnt think Aviva acted unfairly in 
declining Miss Rs claim and cancelling her policy. And in relation to the poor customer 
service Miss R had experienced, she said she thought Aviva had done enough put things 
right.
Aviva didnt make any comments on the investigators view.
Miss R disagreed with the view. In summary, she said:
she doesnt suffer from chronic back pain; 
the records relating to the GP appointment referring to back pain were incorrect;
she would get a letter from the GP to correct the records; and 
the investigator had accepted too much of what Aviva had said about what it would 
have done differently if Miss R had disclosed back pain. 
Miss R was given time to provide the further evidence she wanted to submit from her GP, 
but nothing further has been received. And as Miss R didnt agree with the investigator, the 
case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reviewing this complaint Ive considered the relevant law. The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) sets out the responsibilities of the 
consumer and insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the 
consumer under a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to an 
insurer (such as giving untrue or misleading answers). 
For Aviva to take action, such as cancelling the insurance contract, it needs to show Miss R 
didnt take reasonable care, which resulted in a qualifying misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of things to consider when deciding whether a customer failed to 
take reasonable care. And one of these considerations is the questions the customer was 
asked.
Aviva asked the following question, to which Miss R answered no. 
Within the last four years have you had, or have you taken medication for, or been
advised to take medication or have treatment for:
Any pain or restriction in movement in the back, neck, shoulder or joints (including
traumatic injury), a slipped disc, sciatica, rheumatic, arthritic or muscular complaints
including gout, repetitive strain injury, neuralgia or fibromyalgia?
Im satisfied that the above question clearly asked about Miss R having taken, or been 
advised to take medication, for reasons including back pain. 
Aviva has said the medical records it received showed several references to back pain in the 
four years prior to taking the policy. These included a consultation Miss R had with her GP 
the day before she answered Avivas questions, in May 2018. The GPs records of this 
appointment described a change to lower the dose of a pain relief medication which Miss R 
takes for chronic back pains. And Im persuaded by the medical evidence Ive seen, that 
Miss R answered Avivas question incorrectly, and should have declared her back pain and 
the medication she was prescribed for it. 
To take any action under CIDRA, Aviva also has to show that without the misrepresentation, 
it wouldnt have offered the cover, or would have done so on different terms. Aviva has 
provided this service with details of its underwriting criteria. This demonstrates that had Miss 
R disclosed her history of back pain, together with the other conditions documented in her 
medical notes, Aviva would have been unable to offer the income protection policy. So Im 
satisfied Aviva has shown there was a qualifying misrepresentation. Aviva has said the misrepresentation Miss R made was deliberate, rather than careless. And 
in these circumstances, CIDRA allows an insurer to cancel a policy and refuse any claims. 
And it allows the insurer to keep any premiums paid for the policy, unless it would be unfair 
to do so. 
In this case, Im persuaded it wasnt unfair for Aviva to deem Miss Rs misrepresentation to 
be deliberate. I say this because I think Avivas question about back pain and any associated 
medication was clear. And Miss R had met with her GP the day before she answered the 
question. The GPs records of that appointment show back pain, and a medication for it, was 
discussed. Considering the timeframe, I think this conversation would most likely have been 
at the forefront of Miss Rs mind when Aviva asked about her medical conditions and 
medication within the preceding four years. 
Miss R said she doesnt have chronic back pain. She said she doesnt recall discussing back 
pain during the appointment with her GP in May 2018. And she said the change to 
a prescribed pain relief medication was in relation to the prior removal of her gallbladder, and 
was not related to her back at all. Miss R said she thought her GP had made a mistake in 
the way he had recorded the contents of this appointment, and said she would obtain a letter 
from him to confirm this. However, this hasnt been provided.
Ive considered what Miss R has said together with the videos she has provided of her 
undertaking strenuous physical activities, which she has said she would be unable to do if 
she suffered with chronic back pain. However, in the absence of any further evidence from 
Miss Rs GP, Ive based my decision on the medical records available, as I consider these to 
be the most reliable evidence. And having done so, Im satisfied these records show 
evidence of back pain over the four year period Aviva asked about. And because of this, 
I dont think Aviva cancelled Miss Rs policy unfairly. 
Miss R also complained about the handling of her claim. And Aviva has acknowledged that it 
made some mistakes in the letters it sent. It said its handling of the claim could have been 
better. And because of this, it refunded Miss R all of the premiums she paid for her policy 
and offered £500 in compensation. 
I acknowledge what Miss R has said about the distress Avivas handling of her claim caused 
her. In particular the mistake which caused her to find out her policy had been cancelled 
before Aviva had explained the reasons for its decision. And Ive considered the evidence of 
delays in Miss Rs GP originally providing her medical records, but I think these were beyond 
Avivas control. 
Ive also thought about whether some of the distress Miss R experienced related to the 
cancellation of the policy itself, and her concerns over her financial situation and ability to 
obtain another policy. And I think this is most likely, based on what Miss R has said in her 
submissions. And this is not something I can hold Aviva responsible for, as Ive found it was 
entitled to cancel her policy. 
Having considered all the circumstances, Im satisfied Avivas offer of £500 in compensation 
sufficiently recognises the distress and inconvenience it caused Miss R. And in addition to 
this, Aviva has refunded the policy premiums Miss R paid, which I think is fair and is beyond 
what I would have awarded in this case. So I wont be asking Aviva to do anything more. 
My final decision
Im aware Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already refunded the premiums Miss R paid 
for her policy, and had made an offer to pay £500 to settle the complaint. And I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Miss R £500, within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it she accepts my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman