DRN-3737481
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the advice he received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) to invest
into an ISA. He says the advice to invest was unsuitable for him.
Mr S has brought his complaint via a third party, but for ease of reference I shall refer to
Mr S in this decision rather than his representative.
What happened
In 2001 Mr S had recently moved home and after other expenses had a total of £14,000 in
savings. He was 66 years of age and self-employed. As a result of a meeting with a Lloyds
adviser Mr S invested £4,000 into the Scottish Widows Environmental Investor Fund within
an ISA.
Mr S sold his investment in July 2011 and suffered a loss of £825.90. He didnt complain
initially as he had been made aware at the point of sale that he could incur a loss.
Later Mr S realised he may have had cause for complaint and complained to Lloyds. He
said:
He had been advised to invest at the wrong time having only recently retired, partly
because of ill-health and was due to have an operation in 2003.
He was advised to invest too much of his money. £4,000 represented most of his
available capital being exposed to risk. He was a retired pensioner reliant on a small
pension.
He was advised to take too much risk with his money. He had no previous knowledge 
or understanding of stock market linked investment. The Environmental Investor 
Fund was too high risk for a first-time investor.
Lloyds initially said that Mr S had brought his complaint too late under the rules that apply
but after binging his complaint to this service it agreed we could consider the complaint.
The adjudicator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. Briefly, she
said:
The details about Mr Ss circumstances recorded at the time of sale showed that
  Mr S was working and earning a monthly income of £1,500, intended to retire at 70
  years of age and was in good health.
Mr S had said he was aware that if he invested for five or more years, he could
potentially earn greater returns than cash. So, it seemed likely the adviser discussed
the risk of investment with him and he was prepared to invest over the medium term
 between five and ten years.
Mr S held £8,000 on deposit and had £6,000 in his current account and while he
didnt have any investment experience, this didnt necessarily mean he shouldnt
expose some of savings to the risk of loss.
The investment was a fit with Mr Ss recorded attitude to risk of medium to high.
The investment appeared affordable for Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree. It wasnt suitable advice for a first-time investor and even if he had
indicated his willingness to take a medium to high level of risk the adviser should have
advised him against that.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision explaining that I intended on upholding the complaint, but I asked both 
parties to give me anything further they wanted me to consider before I issued my final 
decision. Heres what I said;
When the evidence I have for a complaint is incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means I base my decision
on what I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider
circumstances.
Mr Ss circumstances
Ive been given conflicting information about Mr Ss circumstances from the time of the sale.
Mr S has told us that he had retired a couple of years before the advice was given, partly
due to ill health. He said he had been unwell for quite a while and was booked to undergo an
operation in 2003. The money was a result of him moving house and the investment
represented the majority of his available capital and he was reliant on a small pension.
Ive also considered what Lloyds has told us about Mr Ss circumstances as recorded at the
time of the sale. It has given us a copy of the Personal Factfind completed on
6 February 2001. Its recorded that Mr S was 66 years of age, in good health, owned his
home outright and planned to retire at 70. He was self-employed and had been for nearly ten
years with an annual income of £24,000. He had £6,000 in his current account and £8,000 in
a savings account.
While I accept Mr Ss recollections from the time of the sale may be different  which I dont
find surprising as it took place over 20 years ago and memories can and do fade  I think
what was recorded at the time of the sale is more likely to be a fairer reflection of Mr Ss
circumstances. And I think it is more likely to be an accurate contemporaneous record of his
circumstances as told to the adviser. It follows that I dont think it unreasonable for Lloyds to
have relied upon the information Mr S gave.
Mr Ss attitude to risk
In the Factfind its recorded that Mr S had been assessed to be a medium/high risk investor.
It said he was looking for capital growth over the medium term. He didnt hold any
investments.
It's not evident from the Factfind or other point of sale documents how Lloyds came to the
conclusion that Mr S was a medium/high risk investor. I would expect to see some sort of
evidence that the risk of investing was explained to Mr S, taking into account his ability to
understand investment risk and clarification of his experience or knowledge to understand
the risk involved.Clearly Mr S was seeking advice because he didnt have the knowledge or experience to
make an investment decision unaided. Lloyds needs to be able to demonstrate that it gave
suitable advice taking into account Mr Ss circumstances, understanding and knowledge
after ascertaining his attitude to risk. As indicated above, I dont think the information
recorded in the fact find constitutes enough to show that Mr Ss investment objectives and
attitude to risk were established or that it was discussed whether Mr S had the necessary
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risk involved.
We asked Lloyds for evidence of this and it told us that at the time its advisers had to follow
a process for sales. The adviser would introduce Lloyds funds guide to the customer at the
first interview. And using that brochure the adviser would explain risk and rewards, stock
market investment and the importance of keeping enough capital back to cover short term
requirements. The adviser would have introduced and discussed the funds available and
which met the customers attitude to risk. At a second meeting the adviser would have
confirmed the customer wanted to proceed and the fund chosen would have been recorded
in the suitability letter.
Ive seen a copy of the 20 page Your guide to Scottish Widows funds and I see it does
illustrate the risks and rewards of stock market investment and various risk and reward
categories. And Mr S has said he didnt initially complain about the advice he received
because he was aware he could make a loss. So, I think its likely there was discussion
about this.
Ive borne in mind that without any investment experience Mr S would have been totally
reliant upon the advice given to him. Its recorded that his investment objective was for
capital growth. And it might have been the case that Mr S did want to explore the opportunity
to make his money grow more than it had done in savings. But I havent seen sufficient
documentary evidence about how Lloyds came to the conclusion that Mr S was a
medium/high risk investor. And Ive further borne in mind that these funds were relatively
new to Mr S, as a result of moving house and what he had so far done with that money  by
keeping it in a risk-free environment in his bank.
Im not satisfied Lloyds has provided sufficient information or evidence to show how Mr Ss
attitude to risk was assessed or what his investment objectives were. So, I have to take into
account what is known about Mr Ss circumstances and consider whether the investment
recommended was suitable.
This money was new to Mr S. It was a one off in that the funds came about as a result of a
house sale and theres no evidence that Mr S had any previous experience of dealing with
similar sums. Mr S was 66 years of age at the time of the investment and its not clear what
other additional funds hed have for the longer term. He did own his property outright but he
was nearing the end of his working life and I note from the fact find that under the pensions
section no occupational or personal pension details were recorded and that it said Need
identified but did not wish to investigate. So, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr S
had financially planned for his retirement.
While Mr S may have had surplus income at the time of the sale, he was self-employed
which can be an indicator of the potential for a less stable or guaranteed income in the
future. And I think bearing in mind Mr Ss age, overall, I dont think its clear what additional
funds Mr S would have had for the longer term. So, while the amount invested was just
under a third of his capital, and he may have had the ability to replace some losses at the
time with his disposable income, I dont think Mr S was in a financial position to take
excessive risk with his savings, which as far as I am able to tell, was his only capital.
Taking everything else into consideration Im persuaded it was more likely that Mr S waswilling to take some risk with his money but not too much and not to the extent that he was
advised bearing in mind what I think his capacity for risk was and the limited evidence about
how the level of risk he was prepared to take was arrived at.
The advice
Lloyds had six categories of investor risk profiles  from no risk to high risk  and Mr S was
categorised as being willing to take the second highest level or risk  medium/high risk. The
unit trust recommended; the Scottish Widows Environmental Investor Fund matched this risk
rating being categorised within the highest risk section of the funds that Lloyds offered. But I
think this exposed Mr S to an unnecessarily high level of risk in order to achieve his
investment objective which was recorded as being for capital growth.
I say this because by Lloyds advising Mr S to invest into the Environmental Investor Fund
this was an increase in the level of risk compared to his previous knowledge of investment 
holding his funds in bank accounts  recorded as being no risk by Lloyds. I havent seen
sufficient evidence to support why Mr S was willing to take such a significant step up in
terms of risk compared to his previous experience of remaining in cash. If this had been the
case, I would have expected this to have been established by a more fully detailed fact find.
And while there is some limited evidence that Mr Ss attitude to risk was appraised by the
adviser  but only as far as it was recorded in the Factfind  there is no evidence of how
Mr Ss attitude to risk was assessed by the adviser. Overall, and taking into account Mr Ss
circumstances and objectives at the time, I think this meant his money was exposed to risks
Im not persuaded he was willing or able to take. I am satisfied that the advice Mr S was
given in 2001 wasnt suitable for him taking account of his personal and financial
circumstances that Ive already outlined.
So, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I am currently intending to uphold it. I
think the advice wasnt suitable for Mr S.
I outlined how Lloyds should put the matter right by comparing the performance of the fund 
with a benchmark split half between the FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total Return 
Index and half with the average rate from fixed rate bonds. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr S agreed with it. And Lloyds said it also agreed 
with it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr S and Lloyds agreed, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
So, I confirm those findings and reiterate the compensation that Lloyds should calculate.
 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put
Mr S as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given
unsuitable advice.
I think Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable
given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.What should Lloyds do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Lloyds must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark shown
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is
payable.
Lloyds should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Lloyds should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. ItInvestment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Environ- 
mental 
Investor 
FundNo longer 
existsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlementwould be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a
higher return.
I consider that Mr S's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50
combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean that Mr S
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly
reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from investments suited to his
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and Lloyds Bank PLC should pay compensation as I have outlined 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman