DRN-3175761
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined its request 
for a loan under the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme.
Mr D is Ss director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
S applied to HSBC for a loan of £50,001 under the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan 
(CBIL) Scheme in April 2020. 
With no response to the application, Mr D chased the bank on a number of occasions over 
the months that followed. That eventually led to a complaint being raised. 
HSBC responded to the complaint on 23 July. It apologised for the service S had received, 
but said that the high level of demand for borrowing under the Scheme had caused some 
delays. 
HSBC asked Mr D to reapply in September as it was unable to locate the original application 
hed submitted. It reviewed the application that month and wrote to him on 21 September to 
say that it was declined. This was on the grounds that the turnover going through the 
companys account wasnt sufficient to support the loan amount requested.
Mr D raised a further complaint. He said HSBC had led him to believe that the initial 
application had been successful  as in its correspondence of 23 July, it had referred to the 
application as having been approved. He said hed committed to a contract on that basis.
While HSBC accepted that it incorrectly referred to the approval of the application when it 
meant to say submission, it thought the rest of its response had been clear that further 
information was needed before it could progress the application. It reiterated that Ss CBIL 
application had been declined due to unaffordability. 
Mr D remained unhappy and referred the complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into things and thought it should be upheld in part. She didnt think HSBC had made an error 
in declining Ss CBIL application for the reason it gave, noting that there was a requirement 
that the loan amount be no more than 25% of the applicants turnover which S hadnt met 
here. But she thought that S had been put to some inconvenience by delays on the banks 
part in confirming its decision. So she recommended that HSBC pay S compensation of 
£250. 
HSBC accepted our investigators view, but Mr D didnt. He still thought the first application 
had been approved and so didnt think it was fair for the bank to have then used the second 
application as a means to decline it retrospectively. He didnt agree that loans under the 
CBIL Scheme were limited to 25% of the applicants turnover. And he didnt think that the 
£250 compensation was sufficient, given the nature of HSBCs errors and the impact theyd 
had on S.
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I wrote to both parties with my provisional decision earlier this month, setting out why I also 
thought Ss complaint should be upheld in part. While my initial conclusions were the same 
as those of our investigator, my reasons were slightly different. So I gave S and HSBC the 
opportunity to respond with any additional comments or evidence they wanted me to take 
into account before I made a final decision. 
With regard to the CBIL application, I said I didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. In 
summary, this was because:
While recognising there were reasons why Mr D considered Ss first application to 
have been approved, I didnt think it had been. The bank had required a second 
application as it hadnt been able to locate the first. 
The second application was properly assessed. Under the rules of the CBIL Scheme, 
lenders were entitled  and expected  to assess the viability of the lending 
proposition. HSBC wasnt happy to lend on the basis that Ss turnover wasnt 
sufficient to demonstrate that it could afford the loan repayments. That was a 
decision it was entitled to make and Id not seen anything to suggest it was 
unreasonable.
It was a requirement under the rules of the CBIL Scheme that the amount borrowed 
did not exceed 25% of the applicants turnover. Mr D had understandably disputed 
this as hed not been made aware of it during the process. But it was one aspect of 
the qualifying criteria  which required that the amount borrowed was no more than:
oDouble the applicants 2019 wage bill;
o25% of the applicants 2019 turnover; or 
oThe applicants liquidity needs for the next 18 months (for small or medium-
sized enterprises, like S). 
Lenders had some discretion under the rules of the Scheme to choose which of 
these parameters it wished to apply. So HSBC was within its rights to decline Ss 
application on the basis that in asking to borrow £50,001, it had requested more than 
25% of its annual turnover (which Id understood was around £20,000). Although in 
any case, it seemed to me that the bank hadnt needed to apply these limits as it was 
unwilling to approve the application given its affordability concerns, irrespective of the 
maximum limits that could be lent.
While I thought HSBCs decision to decline the CBIL application was reasonable, I thought 
there were shortcomings in the service it had provided S. On this, I said:
S first applied for the CBIL in late April and had only received its answer around five 
months later. During that time, Mr D had received little by way of meaningful update 
and had chased things up on a number of occasions. The bank had been unable to 
locate the first application so a second application was required, putting S to further 
unnecessary trouble. 
It was right that S be compensated for the impact of the banks delays. I couldnt see 
that theyd caused S any financial losses, as ultimately the company hadnt been 
entitled to the CBIL. But it had been engaged in additional contact and correspondence, including the second application  all of which had been avoidable. 
For this, I thought that £250 was fair compensation.
Mr D said hed acted in reliance on HSBCs assurances that the first application had 
been approved, but I didnt think it was reasonable to think that the loan had been 
approved. There was only one passing reference to the CBIL having been approved 
in one of HSBCs letters  and that same letter had gone on to explain that further 
information was needed (at this point, simply to locate the request) and that the bank 
could then progress your application. And S hadnt had any other confirmation from 
HSBC that the loan had been approved  most notably, it hadnt received an offer 
letter or entered into any agreement. So I didnt think HSBC was responsible for any 
losses that S may have incurred in acting on the belief that the loan funds would be 
available.
Both parties confirmed receipt of my provisional decision but neither provided any further 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having provided any further information for me to 
take into account, Ive not reached a different conclusion from that set out in my provisional 
decision. So this decision confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay S compensation of 
£250.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman