DRN-2917264
The complaint
Mr J complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited didnt complete sufficient repairs 
to his vehicle, after he made a claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr Js hybrid car was hit by another vehicle whilst parked. Acromas, his 
insurer, arranged for his car to be taken to an approved repairer.
In September 2020, the car was returned to Mr J. However, he wasnt satisfied the car had 
been returned to its pre-accident condition. Following inspections, Acromas accepted the 
repairs hadnt been completed to a satisfactory standard. A report from the main dealer 
noted an issue with a wheel bearing and an issue with wheel alignment. Acromas 
compensated Mr J £100.
Acromas said it would arrange a thorough inspection of the car, and once it had carried out 
further repairs, an independent report would be completed. Mr J gave Acromas a list of 
issues he had noticed whilst driving the car. 
In October 2020, the car was collected by the original approved repairer. About three weeks 
later, Mr J discovered the repairer was no longer trading, and Acromas didnt initially know 
where his car was. The cars location was established a few days later, and the repairs 
continued with another repairer (that was linked to the original repairer). 
On 15 December 2020, the car was again returned to Mr J. This was after an independent 
inspection had found the faults had been rectified.
Mr J noted he had accepted the car back under duress, as he wasnt given the opportunity to 
test drive it beforehand. Mr J also said the independent engineer appeared to have relied on 
information provided by the original repairer, and not adequately investigated the issues he 
had raised. Mr J said he was still concerned the car hadnt been repaired properly, and he 
also highlighted it had taken three months for the wheel bearing to be repaired.
Acromas compensated Mr J a further £150 for his experience during the claim. It also noted 
its repairs have a five-year guarantee, and if theres further linked issues, they will be 
covered. 
Throughout the claim, Mr J had expressed that he wanted the car to be written-off. However, 
Acromas said the cost of the repairs were £15,000 and the pre-accident valuation of the car 
was £24,000. Therefore, it said the car was considered repairable. 
On 17 December 2020, Mr J told Acromas he experienced noise and vibration when taking 
the car for a short test drive. On 21 December, Mr J paid £72 for a garage to undertake an 
extended test drive. The report noted a slight suspension noise when driving over bumps, 
and a slight rattle from the interior. However, it said further investigation was required to 
pinpoint the location of the noises.
On 4 January 2021, Mr J told Acromas that he was experiencing issues with the battery 
charge and fuel consumption. He also told our service that he had on occasion, noticed 
exhaust and petrol fumes via the air conditioning.
On 5 January 2021, Mr J informed our service that Acromas had agreed to pay for five hours 
of investigation work by the main dealer, to determine whether theres issues covered under 
the cars warranty or whether theres accident related issues.
The main dealers investigation cost £378, and Mr J was reimbursed by Acromas. The report 
noted 12 issues had been investigated. No faults were found for nine. To rectify two rattles, 
insulation was added to plastic cowling and the drivers headrest was to be repaired under 
warranty. The report also noted the charge issue might be something to do with the 
extension lead being used.
On 29 January 2021, Mr J explained he was still waiting for a response from the main dealer 
about the charging and fuel consumption issues. On 31 January, he reported further noise 
and vibration issues, and range issues. On 1 February, he explained that the main dealer 
was going to investigate further.
The main dealers further invoice, for £504, noted four areas were checked. An issue was 
only found with one item. It was reported that the SDH unit had a known issue and the 
manufacturer was working on an update.
On 11 February 2021, Mr J advised Acromas that four error codes were now being reported 
by the car after the car systems were reset by the main dealer the previous week. He said 
the car appeared to be quieter, and he commented the system resets may have resolved 
some of the problems. 
On 17 February 2021, Mr J updated our service that a new head unit might be needed. On 
16 March, he told us the car now appeared to be running better, but the fuel economy was 
lower than he expected. He noted this might be fixed when the head unit is replaced.
On 16 April 2021, one of our investigators issued his findings on Mr Js complaint. He didnt 
think Acromas needed to do anything further, and he thought the £250 compensation was 
fair. 
On 11 May 2021, Mr J sent Acromas two April 2021 invoices from the main dealer. The first 
was for an annual service and MOT (£425), and the second was for the replacement head 
unit and headrest under warranty (no charge). Mr J said the main dealer hadnt found any 
new issues, and over the last month the car appeared to have been running close to its 
pre-accident condition. 
On 14 June 2021, Mr J explained to Acromas that having reflected over the previous month, 
he didnt think the £250 compensation reflected the time he had spent dealing with the 
issues. 
Mr J remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. In response to 
our investigators findings, Mr J has made the following points:
- After the car was returned to him in September 2020, he expected Acromas to take it 
back and investigate the issues he had raised. It was unprofessional to recommend 
the wheel bearing be replaced under the manufacturers warranty, given the wheel 
had already been replaced by the repairer as a result of the accident. - After Acromas accepted it needed to investigate further in September 2020, the car 
should have been taken to an alternative repairer given the repairs had been 
performed poorly by the original repairer.
- Acromas agents new the original repairer was to cease trading and a new repairer 
was being set up. The repair delays were entirely caused by Acromas agents, and 
their poor processes and procedures.
- He doesnt think the car would have been repaired to an acceptable standard without 
our involvement; and its taken a considerable amount of his time to get the car 
repaired to an acceptable standard.
- The issues that remained when the car was returned in December 2020, have been 
resolved by the main dealer during visits between January and April 2021. Whilst 
those visits were partially funded by Acromas, this was only after our investigator 
asked whether it was willing to take the car back at market value. 
- He doesnt think Acromas repair warranty is worth anything going forward, as hes 
been told he will need a report from a main dealer and an independent engineer 
before Acromas will consider matters.
- Whilst the car is better than it was in December 2020, it hasnt been repaired to its 
pre-accident condition and hes had a dreadful nine months dealing with Acromas 
and its agents following the initial three-month repair period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Throughout the claim and complaint, Mr J said his car should have been written-off. After 
repair issues persisted, he also wanted Acromas to settle the claim by taking possession 
of the car and paying him the market value.
It was for Acromas to decide whether Mr Js car was uneconomical to repair. Given the initial 
repair costs and car value, I dont consider its decision to repair to have been unreasonable. 
Whilst Mr J wanted Acromas to acquire the car when further repairs were required, Im not 
persuaded that it was under an obligation to do so. But rather, it needed to complete the 
repairs to a satisfactory standard. 
I accept that Mr J is concerned about the process of returning to Acromas, under the repair 
warranty, should issues arise in the future. However, I cant reasonably make a finding on 
something thats not yet happened. If Mr J has further issues with his car, and hes not 
satisfied with Acromas response, he can complain about that matter at the time.
Nonetheless, Ive considered the overall claim journey from July to December 2020, and the 
information Mr J has presented about the further works that were completed between 
January and April 2021.
When the car was first returned in September 2020, I accept it was frustrating for Mr J that 
there were still issues. Insurance claims inevitably involve a degree of inconvenience, and 
repairs arent always successful at the first attempt. When theres issues with a repair, we 
generally expect an insurer to take reasonable steps to put matters right. In that respect, 
I can understand Mr Js upset about being referred to the manufacturer in first instance, 
rather than Acromas investigating further. I understand why Mr J didnt want the car returned to the original repairer, but we generally 
consider it fair for the insurers repairer to be given a reasonable opportunity to put matters 
right. However, Acromas then had the vehicle for over two months, between October and 
December 2020. I havent seen anything that reasonably explains why the further repairs 
took so long. Overall, I consider it likely that the repairer ceasing trading was the main 
reason for the delay. I also accept that situation caused Mr J further upset. 
Its my understanding that Mr J had a replacement car between July and December 2020, 
whilst his car was with Acromas repairers. But I acknowledge that this doesnt mean the 
avoidable delays werent a cause of upset and inconvenience.
Having said all that, Acromas apologised to Mr J in September and December 2020, and it 
compensated him £250. Im also mindful Acromas paid £378 towards further investigations, 
due to Mr Js remaining concerns. As Ill go on to explain, those investigations didnt, in my 
view, show Acromas had failed to repair the accident related damage. So, bearing in mind 
everything Ive said so far, overall, I consider £250 to be fair compensation for the delays 
and upset that Acromas caused between July and December 2020.
The three hours investigative work, funded by Acromas, found no issues for nine out of the 
12 items investigated. The headrest issue was repaired under the manufacturers warranty, 
so Im not persuaded that issue was accident related. Whilst I acknowledge insulation was 
added to some plastic cowling to remedy a rattle, the report noted this couldnt be heard 
whilst the car was being driven. So, on balance, Im not persuaded this was an issue of 
significance. Finally, it was thought a charging lead might be the cause of the reported 
charge issue, which doesnt point towards accident related damage.
Mr J went on to pay £504 for further investigations, for four items. It was found there werent 
any issues with noise, or the battery charge. An issue was only found for one item and this 
was a known issue with the SDH unit, that required a manufacturers update. It therefore 
follows that this issue wasnt accident related.
Whilst I accept four error codes were then reported, based on the information presented, its 
my understanding that this was due to a faulty head unit, which was replaced under the 
manufacturers warranty. So again, Im not persuaded that issue was accident related.
So, having carefully considered the information provided, Im not persuaded Mr J has shown 
the car was returned with accident related issues in December 2020. Therefore, I cant 
reasonably direct Acromas to cover his further investigation costs, or to pay further 
compensation for what happened between January and April 2021.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, but for the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman