DRN-3077886
The complaint
Miss R complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Three loans were approved for Miss R in February, April and June 2020. Some repayments
have been made. Here is a brief summary taken from Morses records.
Loan Start Date End Date Capital 
AmountInterest 
amountTerm in 
weeksRepayment 
amount in 
weeksWeeks 
LiveStill 
Live
1 14/02/2020 11/06/2020 £150 £81 22 £10.50 17 No
2 30/04/2020 - £200 £140 34 £10.00 61 Yes
3 11/06/2020 - £150 £81 22 £10.50 55 Yes
Loan 2 was approved for Miss R while loan 1 remained unpaid. Loan 3 appears to have 
been taken to repay Loan 1. Loans 2 and 3 remain outstanding.
Miss R complained and Morses has told us it was 24 September 2020. Using Morses final 
response letter (FRL) dated 19 November 2020, which summarised Miss Rs complaint, I set 
out here her complaint points:
You state your only income was child benefits when the loans were issued
You state the agreement was signed before you could discuss with your partner
You state we completed affordability on some scrap paper and uploaded this later
You are unhappy as the Agent has attempted to contact you whilst you have had your 
complaint outstanding for irresponsible lending
You state insufficient affordability checks were undertaken when the loan applications 
were made
Morses did not accept, or was able to offer an explanation, in relation to the first four points.
Morses upheld her complaint on the last point in full. It explained:
An affordability assessment was completed before each loan was issued but we 
should have completed further checks before issuing the loans
I have not detailed the income and expenditure assessments completed for the loans 
as I do not believe these were affordable and further checks should have been 
completed.
Morses set out what it proposed to do. I summarise that here.
I have therefore upheld your complaint in relation to all of the loans.
The total refund for the interest you have paid towards the upheld accounts is £82.60 
after tax is deducted; however there is still an outstanding balance of £476.76.
After we have removed the interest charge of £221.00 from the outstanding balance 
there is still £255.76 capital outstanding.
This means no cash refund is due; however, we offer to reduce your overall balance 
to £173.16.
The balance on [loan 2] would reduce from £269.22 to £46.62 and the balance on 
[loan 3] would reduce from £207.54 to £126.54.
Morses FRL went on to say that the balance would be collected and if Miss R was in 
financial difficulties she was to contact her agent and then repayment options could be 
considered for her.
Morses has confirmed that all the loans would be removed from her credit file but only when 
the outstanding ones had been repaid. It also said that the outcome resolution remained 
available for Miss R.
Miss R appears not to have accepted that outcome and brought her complaint to this Service 
in January 2021. She explained her situation and her story behind the loan approvals. She 
said (I have kept this paragraph as Miss Rs own words):
I have mentally been affected i can't sleep im taking sleeping tablets to try and help 
me. I am so behind on everything i am struggling to even feed myself. I can not take 
any more stress from this company even now still messaging me wont leave me 
alone.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and endorsed the offer from Morses as, he 
pointed out, it was more than he would likely have recommended. So, he thought that this 
offer was fair and invited Miss R to accept it.
Miss R did not. She wanted the balance written off and for Morses to recognise the upset it 
has caused her. She says that the loans have put her in more financial hardship than she 
was in before.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on 15 September 2021 which was that I endorsed Morses Club PLCs outcome on 
the complaint and further added that the balance should be written off and Miss Rs credit file 
amended in the way I outlined. 
I invited both parties to respond by 29 September 2021. They have and so the complaint is 
ready for its final determination. 
For completeness I have set out my provisional decision findings in the next section. Its in 
smaller print to differentiate it from this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss R
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the
consumer. These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss R could sustainably repay her loans  not
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
in order to do that.
My provisional decision dated 15 September 2021
I have carefully considered the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Rs complaint.
Morses has accepted that, Miss R could not afford the loans and it did not do enough checks for each 
loan and has accepted it must put things right for Miss R. And so, I do not need to decide whether 
there was any irresponsible lending, as Morses has accepted that.
Miss Rs underlying concerns relate to how these loans were ever approved in the first place and the 
effect they have had on her. Shes unhappy about having to pay the remaining, albeit reduced, 
balance. I set out below the figures gathered from Miss R at the time of each loan approval and, in my view, 
these demonstrate why it is that Morses upheld her complaint so completely. Miss Rs outgoings 
exceeded her very modest benefits income, or took up so much of her income that she was left with 
very little each week. She had a dependent and was herself totally dependent on her partner to pay 
most, if not all, the bills.
Loan Miss Rs
Declared 
income
(rounded)Verification?Outgoings
(rounded) Partner
contributionMorses net 
weekly
disposable 
income
(NDI) figure for 
Miss R
1 £163 Child benefit 
and HMRC Other home credit 
loan £40
Other  rent and 
bills etc £238 to 
which Miss R 
contributed £35Council tax,
food and
mediaNDI - £88
Customer
affordability
£26
2 £98 Child benefit
and working
tax credit letterMorses loan £10.50
Other home credit 
loan £40
Total outgoings £61
Other  rent and 
bills etc £310 to 
which Miss R 
contributed £7Rent, council
tax, gas &
electricity billNDI - £40
Customer
affordability £15
3 £98 HMRC letter
and child
benefitMorses loans 
£20.50
Other home credit 
loan £40
Total outgoings £61
Other  rent and 
bills etc £210customer
pays nothing
as partner
pays
everythingNDI - £38
Customer
affordability £10
An additional point on Loan 2, the Morses agents figures seem to include a mistake. It had 
summarised Miss Rs net weekly income as just under £98 a week. And it had her net weekly 
outgoings as just under £58 (nearly all of which was loan repayments) and had calculated that her net 
disposable weekly income (NDI) was £40. In fact, on basic mathematics, that should have been £30. 
So, the customer affordability figure was likely even lower than the £15 it had inputted onto the form 
for her.
And these figures show that there had been a big decrease in Miss Rs weekly income which was 
made up of tax credits and child benefit only. And loan 1 remained unpaid when loan 2 was approved. 
Despite all this the agent seems to have recommended her for a new loan, larger than the first loan.
Loan 3 seems to have been approved to repay loan 1 and extended her indebtedness further.
Morses complaints department representative has said I do not believe these were affordable, and 
I agree. Id go further and say that it was rather unusual that these figures would have led to an agent 
recommending Miss R for any loan, and certainly not when her income had reduced and the first loan 
remained unpaid  so creating the loan 1 and 2 overlap.
Morses was aware she had other outstanding debt as Miss R told it she was paying £40 a week to 
another home credit provider from her low benefits income already. Further debt was inappropriate 
and irresponsible lending by Morses.
I have considered the timing of these loans as well. Loan 1 was in February 2020, but loans 2 and 3 
were approved during the national Covid-19 pandemic when a great deal of pressure was imposed on 
individuals and families across the nation for a variety of reasons. I do not know Miss Rs individual 
situation and the Covid impact on her, but I do have some details from Morses. When asked, Morses 
explained that it was July 2020 when she called it to explain that she was suffering from depression. And she mentioned that her partner was back at work soon which suggests to me he had been out of 
work. As her partner paid for everything then I anticipate that the joint financial situation deteriorated 
in 2020. Morses has informed me that Miss R was flagged on its files as vulnerable on 27 July 2020. 
So, the rest of my provisional decision focuses on what ought to happen going forward.
Miss R wants the balance written off and for Morses to recognise her mental illness and the impact 
the loans have had on her. She outlines this in her complaint form sent to us (and forwarded to 
Morses) earlier this year.
Morses received her complaint on 24 September 2020 and Morses considered the complaint closed 
in November 2020. Morses has explained: After complaint closed on 19 Nov Regulatory letters have 
continued to be sent to [Miss R] by email, but no other contact was attempted.
I asked Morses to tell me what its procedures would have been for customers identified as 
vulnerable and its reply was Our process for vulnerable customers is that we request they provide 
supporting medical documentation via a Debt and Mental Health Evidence Form.
I do not know whether Miss R was asked to complete such a form  or whether if asked she did 
complete it. As this is a provisional decision then Morses has time to send further information and/or 
documents to me.
Morses has said that on 19 December 2020, Miss R told it that she was unable to pay the loans.
I have considered the Standards of Lending Practice code for consumers. The Standards of Lending 
Practice for personal customers set out standards of good practice in relation to overdraft, credit card, 
chargecard and unsecured loan products and services provided to consumers.
I have reviewed those parts of the code where a person is in financial difficulties and theres some 
evidence of customer vulnerability. In Miss Rs case I think that both have been made apparent, either 
through Morses gathering of data for the loan applications, and from telephone calls it has had with 
her since then.
And taking all the points I have gleaned from this complaint, including the fact that Morses has 
recognised it ought never to have approved these loans for her, that Miss R has mental health and 
financial issues, then I dont think its appropriate for Morses to pursue her for the outstanding sum of 
around £173.
Morses accepts that Miss R was not able to afford these loans from the outset, and I do not think, 
from the information I have so far, that this position has altered. In fact, Miss Rs mental health state 
appears to have deteriorated. So, I think its clear that Miss R is not going to be able to pay the 
outstanding balance off for a long time, if at all.
If Morses were to continue to pursue Miss R for the balance, that extends her concern into the future, 
she remains in debt, and she will be at risk of debt collectors and/or potential defaults which could be 
added to her already heavy burden. And I do not consider that fair when Morses has accepted that 
these loans should never have been given to her.
So, my provisional decision is that the balances outstanding on two loans are written off and Miss R is 
not asked for anything further. Morses has said it will remove these three loans from her credit file 
once repaid and I think that this ought to be done immediately.
I have considered additional compensation, but for Miss R to have the £173 balance written off, and 
for the debt burden to be removed I think that is satisfactory and fair to both parties. Any further 
compensation is not necessarily due. I say this because Miss R has had the benefit of the money lent 
to her.
Miss Rs other points (the first four listed in the what happened part of this provisional decision) are 
ones I am aware of and they have been part of the overall picture I have gathered when considering 
this complaint in the round and coming to the provisional decision I have. So, Miss R needs to be 
aware that I have considered those elements too.How both parties responded to my provisional decision
Morses
Morses has said that it did not believe I had been provided with enough information 
regarding its vulnerable customer procedure and what happened with Miss Rs account and 
so it sent me additional information. 
Morses has sent me screenshots to show that on 27 July 2020 Miss R had informed it she 
was suffering from depression and was flagged as vulnerable. 
Morses has outlined some of the procedures and training its staff receive. I have noted 
these. 
Morses has said that no further collections activity took place until September 2020 to give 
Miss R some breathing space. An agent visited Miss R in September 2020 and Miss R paid 
some instalments using its on-line portal. 
From information Morses has given me earlier in the complaint process, it has said that 
Morses received her complaint on 24 September 2020 and it considered the complaint 
closed in November 2020. Morses has explained: After complaint closed on 19 Nov 
Regulatory letters have continued to be sent to [Miss R] by email, but no other contact was 
attempted.
Recently Morses has said that Miss R was moved to its internal customer support team on 
the 5 February 2021 and that meant that her account would not be sold to an external debt 
agency and it would not add any default to the account. 
Morses has said that very recently it has sent to Miss R a sensitive letter in which it would 
have asked her for an income and expenditure assessment and ask for any supporting 
documentation which supports their current circumstance Morses says it has not received 
anything from Miss R in response to this recent request. 
Morses concludes that it is sympathetic with Miss Rs situation but still says that the 
outstanding capital should be repaid. 
Miss R 
One of our adjudicators asked Miss R if she had received this recent request from Morses or 
anything like that and she replied not. 
Miss R has sent to us information about her medical condition. She has told us she has a 
sick note and is in line to have a disability benefit assessment. She describes her financial 
situation as worse. 
Miss R understood my provisional decision but wished me to know that the funds from 
Morses was used to pay off another loan. She describes having to get loans to pay off other 
loans. She wondered if she was entitled to anything more. 
My decision
I said in my provisional decision that I was looking at the whole picture to decide whether 
I thought it was fair and reasonable for Morses to continue to pursue Miss R for the remaining balance. Having noted all that has been said since issuing my provisional 
decision, and having reviewed the complaint as a whole, then my view has not changed.
What Miss R has sent me and explained to us on the telephone since my provisional 
decision has reinforced my view that Miss R is not able (easily or at all) to repay the balance 
remaining on the loans. 
To answer Miss Rs point about her use of the Morses loan funds to repay another loan and 
whether she may be entitled to anything further, the short answer is that I do not think 
anything further by way of compensation is fair or reasonable. Before this complaint started, 
Miss R was faced with repaying both loans and according to Morses FRL the outstanding 
balance when it wrote to her in November 2020 was around £477 even after it had deducted 
her refunded interest. 
After that Morses explained in its FRL it planned to remove the unpaid interest leaving 
around £256 still to pay. Morses then said it would reduce the capital due to it further to 
around £173 across both loans. The combination of Morses resolution set out in the FRL, 
which I endorse, plus my decision, means that Miss R need not repay anything. And so, she 
will have had the benefit of some capital funds without having to pay that back. Ive given 
reasons why I think that is fair and reasonable in Miss Rs circumstances 
Putting things right
Morses should write off the balance, close the accounts and amend Miss Rs credit file 
immediately to remove all three loans.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I endorse Morses Club PLCs outcome on the complaint and it 
should do as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman