DRN-3018314
The complaint
Mr H complains about fees he was charged when investing in an Individual Savings Account 
(ISA) with Henderson Investment Funds Limited.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr H moved some funds from another provider into his existing ISA with 
Henderson. The money was invested in two different funds for which Henderson charged a 
fee of over £800.  
Mr H complained to Henderson saying he didnt think he shouldve been charged a fee. 
Henderson didnt uphold the complaint saying that the fees were in the Key Investor 
Information Document (KIID) for both the funds. 
Remaining unhappy Mr H brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They didnt think Henderson had made any errors 
or acted unreasonably when applying the charges. Mr H disagreed saying the 
documentation from Henderson is misleading and that when reading the KIID alongside the 
A Simple Guide to Charges document there should be no fees charged. Our investigator 
considered what Mr H said however they thought the KIID, which is specific to each fund, 
showed the charges payable. Mr H didnt agree so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided a lot of information about this complaint and its clear how strongly he 
feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr H that Ive read and considered everything 
he has provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised what happened which 
reflects the informal nature of this service. 
Ive looked at the KIID for both the funds Mr H invested in. The top of both documents say 
This document provides you with Key Investor Information about this Fund ... You are 
advised to read it so you can make an informed decision about whether to invest.
Both documents have a section on the second page titled Charges. In that section is a 
heading One-off charges taken before or after you invest. Below that is shown the Entry 
Charge for the funds  one of which has a rate of 5%, and the other a rate of 5.25%. 
Having looked at the KIIDs Im satisfied they make clear the entry charges for each fund. 
Mr H correctly points out that there is a caveat which says The charges shown are maximum 
figures. In some cases you may pay less. Indeed Mr H did pay less than the quoted charges 
as a 1% discount was applied.
Mr H feels the information on the KIIDs arent the complete source of all information an 
investor needs to make an informed decision. He says in order to know what the some 
cases you may pay less are, clarification is provided by the A Simple Guide To Charges 
document. So Ive considered what the guide says.
Under the heading Entry charge it says the charge is typically anything from zero up to 5%. 
There are two examples given about what the charge is for: It covers the cost of setting up 
your account and It may also cover payments to a financial adviser, if this has been agreed 
as part of the adviser fee. Mr H says that because neither of those two factors apply to him 
then the entry charge must be at the lowest end of the stated range; which is 0%.
I dont agree with Mr H on this point because the simple guide to charges is exactly that; a 
simple guide. It has general information and doesnt cover every scenario. Its the relevant 
KIID which provides details about each actual fund. And as Ive said above, I think the KIID 
shows the charges clearly.
Ive also considered the prospectus for the funds and they both contain the following:
This Prospectus, the Application Form, the Key Investor Information Document, and the 
additional Investor Information Document form the contract between the Manager and the 
Unitholders.
 
So since the entry fee is outlined in both of the KIIDs they form part of the contracts Mr H 
agreed to when he invested. Mr H might have a different interpretation of how the KIIDs and 
the guide to charges relate to each other, but it is the KIID which forms part of the contract, 
and not the guide to charges.
Having carefully considered everything provided Im satisfied that Henderson acted fairly and 
reasonably when applying the charges. Thats not to say that Mr H hasnt been affected by 
what happened; he clearly has as he paid over £800 in charges. But I dont think Henderson 
made any errors when charging those fees, so I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman