DRN-3437900
The complaint
Miss B complains that Starling Bank Limited has blocked her account access.
What happened
Miss B says her telephone broke which she used to access her Starling account. She says 
she installed the Starling application (app) on her new telephone but it wouldnt work. Miss B 
says she provided Starling with evidence she was the account holder in the form of an 
account statement, but it said she needed to speak to it. She would like account access and 
says she is not prepared to go through the procedure of speaking to Starling. Miss B says 
her account shouldnt be blocked.
Starling says Miss B contacted it on 13 October 2021 and it told her that she needed to 
speak with it. It says it gave Miss B a telephone number that she could call from abroad if 
needed which was open all day and seven days a week. Starling says its account terms and 
conditions and website all make clear that its security process requires contact in these 
circumstances. It says Miss Bs e-mail details were also different to those it has details of 
and needed to ask her security questions.
Miss B brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Starling had given Miss B a telephone number to call and thought the account terms 
and conditions and website required her to make contact with Starling in these 
circumstances in person. The investigator didnt think Starling acted unfairly by making that 
request.
Miss B doesnt accept that view and says she would like action taken against Starling. She 
says it should not reject her account access when the she has the required data.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint and find 
that Starling made a reasonable request to speak to Miss B and to ask her security 
questions in these circumstances when she provided a 2019 account statement from a 
different e-mail address.
There is no dispute here that Miss B tried to install her Starling app on a new device. I have 
looked carefully at what Starling says about that in the account terms and conditions and 
online. And I can see that Starling makes clear that due to security reasons it requires a 
customer in those circumstances to speak to it in person. So, I dont think Starling made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by asking Miss B to contact it by telephone so that it could allow 
account access. I find that Starling acted in line with those agreed account terms and 
conditions and in line with the information it publishes on its website.
I appreciate this was Miss Bs account and, if there was a balance on that account, that it 
was her money. But I am sure Miss B appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks 
and building societies and they must have security measures in place to protect its and its 
customers money. I am also sure that Miss B appreciates that a fraudster could obtain a 
customers account statement which is the only evidence she provided to Starling about her 
identity, as the e-mail address was different. I dont think Starlings requirement that Miss B 
make contact with it is onerous and think that service is available all and every day.
Im satisfied that Starling explained its position to Miss B as soon as she made contact with it 
in October 2021 and fairly provided her with a telephone number she could use if abroad. It 
follows that I think Starling tried to help Miss B and I dont think it clear why she is not 
prepared to contact it if account access is important.
We are not Starlings regulator and so its not our role to tell it what its security process 
should be and its not our role to take action against it as Miss B suggests we do. I find that 
Starling has fairly tried to help Miss B and explained how she could use its banking app. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman