DRN-4420589
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his credit card account.
What happened
Mr S had a credit card account with Barclays that met the criteria to be considered as being 
in a state of persistent debt. In April 2022, Barclays sent a letter to Mr S advising that his 
account was now considered to have been in a state of persistent debt for 36 months. In 
response to that letter, Mr S cleared the outstanding balance on his credit account in full.
However, in August 2022, Barclays wrote to Mr S and explained that they had taken the 
decision to close his account as they were concerned that he might fall into a position of 
persistent debt on the account again moving forwards. Mr S wasnt happy about this as he 
felt that his financial position was good and didnt warrant the closure of his account. Mr S 
was also unhappy that Barclays hadnt responded to a Data Subject Access Request 
(DSAR) hed made to them in a timely manner. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mr S and confirmed that they were no longer willing to provide credit 
to him based on their own lending criteria. Barclays also noted that there were no 
outstanding DSAR requests from Mr S at that time. Mr S wasnt satisfied with Barclays 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel Barclays had acted unfairly 
by choosing to close Mr Ss account as they had. But they felt Barclays hadnt processed   
Mr Ss DSAR request in a timely manner and said that Barclays should make a payment of 
£75 to Mr S as compensation for the trouble and upset hed incurred as a result. Mr S 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I can appreciate that Mr S is unhappy that Barclays have made the choice to no longer 
provide credit to him. But it must be noted that the provision of a credit facility to an individual 
isnt a right that an individual has. Ultimately, its at the discretion of the credit provider as to 
whether they are willing to provide credit to any specific individual or not. 
When Barclays told Mr S that they would be closing his credit account they explained their 
decision to do so as follows:
Weve reviewed your account and to help you avoid going back into persistent debt, 
well be closing your Barclaycard.
Were making this change after reviewing how affordable your credit is, based on 
what we know about your situation, and data from external credit reference 
agencies.
As per the above, Barclays havent cited any objective reason, such as rules or regulatory 
obligations, as to why they had made the decision to close Mr Ss account. And when 
Barclays responded to Mr Ss complaint about this matter, they confirmed that the closure of 
the account was a decision theyd made based on their own willingness to lend, as follows:
We no longer felt you account was affordable and that you met our current lending 
criteria.
As explained, this is a commercial decision that Barclays are entitled to make. And while I 
can appreciate that Mr S would like to better understand Barclays decision, Barclays are 
under no obligation to justify their reasoning to Mr S in the manner that he would like. And in 
consideration of these points, Im satisfied that the closure of Mr Ss account by Barclays, for 
the reasons Barclays have explained, isnt unreasonable or unfair.
Im aware that Mr S feels that Barclays made the decision to close his account as a 
consequence of a complaint he raised with them previously. But Barclays addressed this 
point in their response to Mr Ss complaint in which they confirmed that that wasnt the case 
and when they explained to Mr S that they no longer felt that he met their lending criteria, as 
per the statement quoted above.
Accordingly, I wont be upholding Mr Ss complaint regarding the closure of his account by 
Barclays. This is because Im satisfied that Barclays were fairly entitled to make the decision 
to close his account that they did, and Im also satisfied that Barclays provided fair notice of 
their intention to close the account via their August 2022 letter.
However, I am in agreement with our investigator that Mr S didnt receive a reasonable 
standard of service from Barclays in regard to the DSAR he submitted in August 2022. 
Specifically, I note that Barclays only responded to that request in December 2022  roughly 
four months after it was submitted. And because of the delay in responding to that DSAR Ill 
be upholding this complaint in Mr Ss favour and instructing Barclays to make a payment of 
£75 to him as compensation for any upset and inconvenience that delay may have cause.
In arriving at that compensation amount Ive considered the impact of the delay on Mr S. But 
it must be noted that, regarding DSARs, this service can only consider the delay from a 
general fairness perspective. I make this point because Im aware that Mr S is unhappy with 
the content of the information hes received from Barclays in response to his DSAR. Its been 
explained to Mr S by our investigator that the relevant regulatory body regarding the content 
of DSARs is the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). As such, I can only refer Mr S to 
the ICO if he remains unhappy in this regard.
All of which means that while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Ss favour, Ill only be 
doing so on a limited basis to instruct Barclays to make a payment of £75 to him as 
compensation for the delay in responding to his DSAR. I realise this might not be the 
outcome Mr S was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £75 to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman