DRN-4096432
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt fairly or reasonably deal 
with his claim under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in 
relation to holiday products he purchased, with his wife, in 2002.
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mr Bs, because it relates to a credit card 
in his sole name. But as the holiday products were in Mr and Mrs Bs name, Ill refer to Mr 
and Mrs B throughout much of this decision.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B acquired timeshares from a third party (the Supplier) in 2002. They 
immediately listed these for resale. In July 2003, the timeshares hadnt been sold and so 
they returned to the resort to discuss their options. Mr B says he visited the Supplier to 
resolve the issue but was told he would need to trade in the timeshare apartments for a 
larger apartment that would be a greater investment and have a greater chance of selling 
quickly. Mr B did this and then listed the timeshare in the larger apartment for resale on the 
same day.
Mr B says that in 2019, the Supplier was closed down and he lost the value of his investment 
which he stated was £18,824. Mr B raised a claim under Section 75 of the CCA for the full 
amount of his investment saying that that closure of the Supplier was a breach of contract.
In response to Mr Bs claim, Halifax said that Mr B had explained the initial fraud happened 
in 2002 and it said he had six years from that date to raise his claim. It said the claim was 
raised out of time.
Mr B didnt accept Halifaxs response. He engaged a third party to assist with his claim which 
was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service in January 2021.
Our investigator set out the timeframe for complaints the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
consider and noted the complaint being investigated was how Halifax had responded to 
Mr Bs Section 75 claim. As the claim was raised in 2020, our investigator said Mr Bs 
complaint fell within our timeframe of complaints the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
consider.
Our investigator noted the claim for misrepresentation and breach of contract under Section 
75. She noted the time limits set out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) and thought Mr Bs claim 
fell outside of the six-year timeframe. Therefore, she didnt think that Halifax was wrong to 
not consider Mr Bs Section 75 claim further based on the timings involved.
Our investigator also considered Section 140A of the CCA and thought a claim under this 
section would be outside of the time limits under the LA.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the breach occurred in 2019 when the 
Supplier was closed, and he suffered his loss. He said he hadnt raised a claim under 
Section 140A of the CCA.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings are set out below.
Mr B has said that timeshares were purchased as investments rather than to make use of 
the holidays the timeshares offered. A copy of the completion statement for the timeshares 
in the first three apartments is dated 7 August 2002 and the listing for resale of the 
timeshares in the same three apartments is also dated 7 August 2002. Mr B has said that as 
the timeshares werent sold, he revisited the Supplier in 2003 and was told to trade in the 
original timeshares for a timeshare in a larger apartment. The purchase agreement for the 
timeshare in the larger apartment is registered in Mr and Mrs Bs names and dated July 
2003 and a resale agreement for the timeshare was signed on the same day.
Mr B raised a claim under Section 75 of the CCA in 2020. My decision is whether Halifax 
acted reasonably and fairly in response to this claim. As Mr Bs complaint about how his 
Section 75 claim was handled was raised in 2021 this falls within the timeframes of 
complaints the Financial Ombudsman can consider.
Was the right arrangement in place?
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a 
claim under that provision.
Mr B has said he paid the deposit for the timeshare using his Halifax credit card. Mr B has 
provided evidence of the payments he made using his credit card in 2002 which were for the 
original purchase agreement (for the three apartments) however no evidence has been 
provided to show the details of the credit card payment in 2003. The purchase agreement 
does refer to the deposit payments being made by card, but I have no further details. 
Therefore, it isnt clear that the required debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is in place.
However, I dont think its necessary to make a formal finding on the debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement for the purpose of this decision because I think Halifax has a defence to Mr Bs 
Section 75 claim for misrepresentation under the LA and I do not think his claim for a breach 
of contract should be upheld.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
Mr Bs main complaint is that there was a breach of contract due to the Supplier no longer 
operating, and I will deal with this below. However, in the letter from his professional 
representative it is also claimed that the timeshares were misrepresented as Mr B was led to 
believe they would be able to be sold quickly as an investment.
When a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier, they can, in certain 
circumstances, make a like claim against their lender under section 75 of the CCA. The 
claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the consumer could make against the 
supplier provided its made inside the relevant limitation period.
But a section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six years from the date 
on which the cause of action accrued.
Only a court can decide whether Mr Bs claim was made out of time under the LA. But the 
Acts still relevant here, as I need to take it into account in deciding whether Halifaxs 
response to the claim was reasonable.The date on which the cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs B entered 
into the purchase agreements. I say this because they entered into the agreements based 
on the alleged misrepresentation by the Supplier  which they relied on. And, on the basis 
that Mr B used his Halifax credit card to help pay for the purchase, it was when he used his 
credit card that he suffered the loss.
It follows therefore that I think the cause of action in regard to the first purchase accrued in 
2002 and in 2003 for the second purchase, and this means that Mr Bs claim for 
misrepresentation under Section 75 had to be made within six years of that date. As the 
claim wasnt made until 2020, I think its likely to have fallen outside of the time limit set out 
in the LA.
Section 75: Breach of contract
Mr B says that he lost his money in 2019 when the Supplier stopped operating. He said this 
constituted a breach of contract. It has been said through this investigation that the date on 
which the cause of action accrued was when Mr and Mrs B entered into the purchase 
agreement. I do not agree with this. Instead, I find that the relevant date is the date of any 
breach. Therefore, I do not find it reasonable to rely on the LA in regard to this issue raised 
and have instead considered whether the cessation of operations of the Supplier constituted 
a breach of contract that Halifax should be held jointly liable for.
Mr B has said he acquired the timeshare as an investment. I can see his actions of putting 
the timeshare up for resale on the same day as the purchase was completed support his 
intention of using the timeshare as an investment. However, the purchase agreement sets 
out that Mr and Mrs B acquired use of a certain property for a specified period. Mr and Mrs B 
decided to list the property for resale but that was their choice. The resale agreement sets 
out the term of the resale including that a sale isnt guaranteed. Therefore, I cannot say by 
not selling Mr and Mrs Bs timeshare, a breach of contract has occurred.
As I understand it Mr B was still the owner of the timeshare when the Supplier went into 
administration. For me to say that this constituted an actionable breach of contract I would 
need to be convinced that the timeshare product he acquired was no longer available to him 
following the Supplier ceasing operations. In this case I understand that the holiday products 
Mr B acquired were still available to him after the liquidation with the facilities being run by a 
new management company. Therefore, I do not find I can say that the liquidation of the 
Supplier has resulted in Mr B no longer benefiting from the terms of his purchase agreement. 
Because of this I do not uphold this part of his complaint.
In conclusion, while I can understand why Mr B is upset by the issues he has experienced in 
the acquisition and attempts to resell his holiday products, I do not find in this case the 
evidence supports an uphold.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision. He said:
The claimant has six years to make a claim from when the product or service doesnt 
work which he said was from the date when the Supplier went into administration.
There were several breaches of contract namely:
1. incorrect information was given, 
2. a deposit was taken on the day in contravention of the law.3. fraudulent misrepresentation occurred as statements were made that were 
untrue, these were made without believing they were true, and were made 
recklessly. 
4. In 1998 it became illegal in Spain to offer any kind of perpetuity clause, 
making the contract void from the time of signing. 
5. they were given alcohol before signing the agreement making it void. 
The resort is now run under a website which is not who the agreement was originally 
with and is no longer exclusive.  He said when the Supplier went into administration, 
they no longer owned with them, meaning they were no longer being able to sell the 
investment.
Mr B said his dispute is that he bought an investment but due to the situation with the 
Supplier his investment has been lost. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required to take into account the relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
Time limit
Mr B said that the six-year time limit is from when the product or service no longer work. As I 
set out in my provisional decision, when considering a breach of contract the six years starts 
from when the alleged breach occurred. In this case Mr B has said this was when the 
Supplier went into administration and so the breach of contract does fall within the time limits 
which is why I considered the merits of this part of Mr Bs complaint. 
In regard to misrepresentations made when Mr and Mrs B acquired the holiday products, the 
six year time limit starts from when the cause of action accrued. In this case the date on 
which the cause of action accrued is when Mr and Mrs B entered into the purchase 
agreements, based on the alleged misrepresentation by the Supplier, which was in 2002 and 
2003. Therefore, I think Mr Bs claim for misrepresentation under Section 75 falls outside of 
the time limit set out in the LA.
Breaches of contract
Mr B listed various points which he considered to be breaches of contract. Having looked 
through these, I consider points 1 and 3 to be allegations of misrepresentation rather than 
breach of contract. As noted above, I think it likely any claim for misrepresentation under 
Section 75 of the CCA has been made out of time. 
The other points that Mr B listed as being breaches of contract, are not relevant in regard to 
a claim under Section 75 of the CCA which is what this decision considers. Instead, they 
could be considered as part of an assessment to whether the agreement contained unfair 
terms. In Mr Bs response to our investigators view, he said he hadnt raised a claim under 
Section 140A and so I havent considered this further.Ongoing situation post Suppliers administration
I understand the point Mr B has made about how his holiday product is now operated and I 
can appreciate why he feels that he has lost out. But as I set out in my provisional decision 
for me to say that the administration of the Supplier constituted an actionable breach of 
contract I would need to be convinced that that timeshare product he acquired was no longer 
available to him following the Supplier ceasing operations. As the holiday products Mr B 
acquired were still available to him with the facilities being run by a new management 
company, I do not find I can say that the liquidation of the Supplier has resulted in Mr B no 
longer benefiting from the terms of his purchase agreement.
I note the comments about no longer being able to sell the holiday product but as I have 
previously explained, the holiday product acquired was use of a property and as this is still 
available I do not find I can say that there has been an actionable breach of contract.
I understand Mr Bs strength of feeling on this issue and I am sorry for the experience he has 
had. But in this case, I do not find I can say the evidence supports Mr B s claim under 
Section 75 being upheld and so I do not require Halifax to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman