DRN-2848522
The complaint
Mr M complains London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) credited money to his 
account when it should have been debited. He said, correction of their mistake resulted in 
financial difficulties for him and adverse data reported on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M holds various accounts with LCCU including a current account, savings account and 
loan. LCCU wrote to Mr M on 7 May 2020. They told him that due to a technical error, some 
payments had been processed through his current account incorrectly. They said theyd 
corrected this but, as a result, his account was now overdrawn. They said they could either 
transfer funds from his savings account or offer him an interest free repayment plan.
LCCU agreed to provide an interest free loan to Mr M of £500. They also refunded charges 
theyd made relating to direct debits that had been returned unpaid. This money was paid 
into Mr Ms account on 12 May 2020. But LCCU continued to return direct debits unpaid and 
charged Mr M for this.
Mr M wasnt happy with how LCCU handled his account. He said thered been errors that 
had affected his account balance and ability to pay direct debits. Mr M said LCCUs actions 
had left him in a terrible financial position. He said LCCU were harassing him for loan 
repayments which has affected his credit score. He also said hed experienced poor service 
in LCCUs branch.
Mr M decided to complain to this service. As he hadnt already formally complained to 
LCCU, details of Mr Ms concerns were sent to LCCU so they could investigate further.
LCCU responded to Mr Ms complaint in January 2021. They said theyd identified a system 
failure in April 2020 which had resulted in payments for purchases being paid into Mr Ms 
account, rather than being withdrawn. This meant that Mr Ms balance was showing as more 
than it shouldve been. 
LCCU reversed and corrected the impacted payments on 30 April 2020. They wrote to Mr M 
to explain this, offering an interest free loan to cover any resulting overdraft. But LCCU said 
that Mr M didnt pay anything more into his account once the loan was agreed. Because of 
this, loan repayments and direct debits werent paid.
LCCU offered to support Mr M and discuss rescheduling his loans in the event he couldnt 
afford the repayments.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint and LCCUs response. He didnt think 
LCCU were responsible for all aspects of Mr Ms complaint. He agreed that LCCU had acted 
quickly to address the impact of their system failure. But he thought LCCU should 
compensate Mr M for the trouble and upset caused by the issue.
LCCU didnt respond to our investigators findings. Mr M said he would accept the 
recommended compensation. But he still thought LCCU had charged him when they 
shouldnt have. He also wanted them to remove any adverse data recorded on his credit file.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ms case was referred to me in order to reach a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LCCU explained the circumstances that led to Mr Ms complaint. It appears a system 
problem resulted in some withdrawals from Mr Ms account being processed as deposits. As 
a result, this initially inflated the balance available on his account.
From the evidence Ive seen, LCCU acted to resolve the issue as soon as it was identified. 
To do this, they removed the wrongly deposited entries and then processed the withdrawals 
correctly. Unfortunately, Mr M had already withdrawn funds from his account on the strength 
of the balance that had been reported to him. So, when LCCU corrected the entries, Mr Ms 
account was left with an overdrawn balance of £398.
LCCU recognised that their system problems had contributed to Mr Ms situation here. So, 
they wrote to explain what had gone wrong. Recognising that Mr Ms account was now 
overdrawn, they offered to provide an interest free loan of £500. This meant that Mr M would 
be able to repay the resulting overdraft over a period of time, minimising the impact on his 
finances. I think this was the appropriate thing to do in these circumstances. It would ensure 
that Mr M wasnt disadvantaged 
It appears Mr M accepted LCCUs offer of an interest free loan. The agreement was signed 
on 12 May 2020 and LCCU deposited the proceeds of the loan into Mr Ms account on the 
same date. In the meantime, the overdrawn balance on Mr Ms account had resulted in four 
direct debits being returned unpaid. LCCU had charged £10 for each of these. I see that 
LCCU refunded those charges to Mr Ms account which I agree, was appropriate.
Once the loan proceeds had been deposited into Mr Ms account, there were various 
subsequent withdrawals and direct debits. Unfortunately, despite the interest free loan, direct 
debits were returned unpaid as Mr M didnt have enough funds in his account to pay them. 
Having looked at his account statements, I cant reasonably say that the lack of funds was 
as a result of anything LCCU did. Theyd corrected their error and provided Mr M with a loan 
to cover the overdraft that had resulted. So, it appears the unpaid direct debits were as a 
consequence of Mr M not ensuring funds were available to cover them.
Mr M said LCCU didnt help him to understand the impact their system problem had on his 
available balance. I think LCCU couldve been clearer about highlighting the entries that had 
been impacted to Mr M. That said, I think its reasonably clear, from Mr Ms statement, which 
entries had been reversed. So, while I agree, LCCU couldve done more, I do think there 
was enough information to enable Mr M to identify the impacted entries.
Mr M told our investigator hed stopped using the account since the complaint. While I 
can understand why Mr M might do that, direct debits and loan repayments continued to fall 
due. By not depositing funds to cover these, LCCU had no option but to return them unpaid.
It appears Mr M hasnt covered any of his loan repayments since the problem occurred. So, 
LCCU have reported this on his credit file. They are required to do that as any information 
reported must show as a true reflection of what actually happened. And I cant reasonably 
conclude that the subsequent problems resulted from anything LCCU did.
I asked LCCU to clarify some of the unpaid items and fees theyd charged. I also asked if 
they had, or were prepared, to offer Mr M any compensation for the issues resulting from 
their system problems. Unfortunately, LCCU havent responded to my request. So, my 
decision is based upon the information available to me.I agree that LCCUs system problems resulted in some confusion for Mr M. At the time, it 
was unclear to him what the correct balance was on his account. It seems this resulted in Mr 
M making payments when, in reality, he wouldnt have had funds available. That said, I 
believe Mr M had a responsibility to reconcile his own spending. So, while I accept that 
LCCUs system problems didnt help, I believe Mr M shouldve had a reasonable idea of 
what funds should have been available in his account rather than just relying on the balance 
reported by LCCU. 
Putting things right
Once the loan proceeds were deposited on 12 May 2020, I believe this corrected the 
position. But Mr M continued to make payments from his account when funds werent 
available. So, I cant reasonably say that LCCU did anything wrong when they returned 
items unpaid. But I do agree that LCCU should compensate Mr M for any distress and 
inconvenience resulting from their original system problems. Our investigator suggested 
compensation of £250. And I think that feels fair here. But I shant be asking LCCU to do 
anything more.
If he hasnt already, I would urge Mr M to contact LCCU to discuss the outstanding loans he 
has with them. LCCU have offered to consider restructuring them in a way that makes them 
affordable to him. Their approach appears sensible.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I require London Community Credit Union Limited to pay compensation of £250 to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman