DRN-3824766
The complaint
Mr B complains Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Consumer Finance 
(Novuna) accused him of fraud and having adverse data on his credit file when they declined 
his application for credit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for 
these reasons:
Novuna, are obligated to make responsible lending decisions. So, they have lending 
criteria that sets out the circumstances in which theyre prepared to offer lending. 
Novuna has sent us information that shows Mr Bs income and monthly outgoings 
didnt meet their lending criteria. I appreciate Mr B considers the lending would have 
been affordable for him. But its for Novuna to determine what they consider to be 
affordable when offering lending. Unfortunately, Mr Bs circumstances didnt meet the 
criteria they have in place for all potential customers. Because of this, I cant 
conclude Novuna acted unreasonably when they declined Mr Bs application.
Novuna has sent us a template of the correspondence Mr B would have received 
when his application was declined. Ive seen it said his application was assessed 
using information provided by a Credit Reference Agency and a Fraud Prevention 
Database. It also detailed the name and addresses of the agencies used. Having 
read this, I cant agree the content of this letter accused Mr B of fraud or having 
adverse data on his credit file. It was simply explaining where Novuna had gathered 
information when reviewing Mr Bs application. I also cant ignore the fact this same 
correspondence explained his monthly outgoings were considered, and that theyd 
identified concerns around the level of your remaining disposable income when 
taking these new repayments into consideration. So, while I accept it might have 
been alarming seeing credit reference agencies and fraud prevention databases 
mentioned, I consider the other details in this correspondence sufficiently explained 
why his application had been declined.
After Mr B raised his concerns with Novuna, they told him on several occasions that 
his application was declined because his level of disposable income and other 
financial responsibilities didnt meet their lending criteria. Im satisfied that gave Mr B 
the level of information Id expect to alleviate his concerns and ensure he was aware 
they hadnt, and werent, accusing him of fraud. The multiple pieces of 
correspondence from Novuna addressing this topic demonstrates they took Mr Bs 
concerns seriously. I was also pleased to see they told Mr B his feedback would be 
taken on board as they were planning to review the generic correspondence sent out 
when applications are declined.
Its not uncommon for businesses, like Novuna, to use generic letters when declining 
applications for credit. Thats because a business lending criteria is often 
commercially sensitive. Its for a business to decide how they want to communicate 
these messages, and thats a commercial decision our Service doesnt have the 
power to change. Ive seen nothing to suggest other customers, with similar 
circumstances, would have been treated differently to Mr B. Therefore, I dont 
consider Novuna treated Mr B unfairly when they didnt send him personalised 
correspondence detailing the specific reasons his application was declined. 
For these reasons, although I appreciate Mr Bs frustrations, I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint about Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc 
trading as Novuna Consumer Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman