DRN-4030332
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by FCE Bank Plc (FCE).
What happened
In November 2019 Mr G acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. 
In June 2022 the oil pressure light came on, and Mr G arranged for his car to be towed to a 
local garage. They told him the engine needed to be replaced, and Mr G complained to FCE 
about the quality of the car. 
The car was taken to the dealership that Mr G acquired it from, and they said the two wet 
belts had perished and broken up, with parts blocking the oil pick up gauze and causing an 
oil pressure issue. They confirmed the engine needed to be replaced. 
FCE sent Mr G their final response to his complaint in August 2022. They said Mr G had 
taken his car for an MOT since he acquired it, but it hadnt been serviced in line with the 
manufactures recommendations. So, they wouldnt accept responsibility for the repairs, and 
didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr G brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said the 
car had been well looked after, and wasnt very old, so it shouldnt need a new engine just 
because one service had been missed. 
Our investigator gave her view that the fault was likely to be as a consequence of the poor 
service history. She thought the car was of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to 
Mr G, and so she didnt ask FCE to do anything more. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said there were other cars of the same make and model with the same 
problem, and itd been recently discontinued by the manufacturer, which shows that it had a 
serious mechanical problem, and he shouldnt be responsible for the cost of repairs. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. FCE as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £11,000. It was almost two 
years old and had travelled around 21,000 miles at the time of supply. With this in mind, its 
reasonable to say that parts of the car may have already suffered from wear and tear. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr Gs car has suffered from deterioration of the wet belts, and in 
order to repair the fault, a replacement engine is required at a cost of around £5,500. 
Mr G told FCE that the mileage on the vehicle was around 49,000 when the oil pressure light 
came on. A wet belt in an engine of this type should typically last around 10 years or 
150,000 miles. So, Ive thought about whether the vehicle was reasonably durable. 
There is a suggestion that the car hadnt been properly serviced, which has led to the fault. 
Mr G said he didnt take his car for a service between acquiring it in November 2019 and the 
fault occurring in June 2022 because hed been unable to book one due to covid-19 
restrictions. 
The manufacturer guidelines say that Mr Gs car should be serviced every two years, or 
18,000 miles, whichever comes first. 
When Mr G acquired the vehicle, it had travelled around 21,000 miles. Its not clear if the car 
was serviced prior to Mr G acquiring it. So, it shouldve been serviced at least no later than 
November 2021 according to time, or once Mr G had driven 18,000 miles. 
The vehicle underwent an MOT in February 2021, and the recorded mileage shows that Mr 
G had driven around 11,000 miles in the car at that point. At the next MOT in February 2022, 
the recorded mileage shows hed driven around 23,000 miles since acquiring the car. So, its 
clear that Mr G shouldve serviced the vehicle on at least one occasion between acquiring it 
in November 2019, and the fault occurring in June 2022. 
Mr Gs car uses a wet belt system, meaning that the belts are constantly lubricated by the 
oil. Oil degrades with use over time and loses its protection/lubrication qualities. This will 
cause the belts to wear faster, and break up within the engine, which is what has happened 
here. 
Regular oil changes, as would happen at a service, are a key to the longevity of the belts. 
So, whilst the belts on Mr Gs car appear to have failed prematurely, Im persuaded that this 
is more likely to be as a result of the car not being correctly maintained, rather than an 
inherent issue with the car. As a result, I find there was no durability issue with the car when 
it was supplied, and it was of satisfactory quality. So, FCE arent responsible for the cost of 
repairs. 
Mr G has said that he was unable to book his vehicle in for a service due to covid-19 
restrictions, and then a backlog of cars needing to be serviced once these were lifted. Im 
satisfied that Mr G couldve serviced the vehicle at the time of the MOT in either 2021 or 
2022. Or, at a garage other than the dealership he acquired the car from in the meantime. Mr G has said that he is aware of similar problems on cars of the same make and model as 
his, and there is evidence that there is a mechanical problem with this make of vehicle. I 
havent seen any evidence of a mechanical or inherent defect on Mr Gs car, and for the 
reasons Ive outlined above, Im persuaded that the premature failure of Mr Gs vehicle is 
more likely as a result of it not being correctly serviced. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman