DRN-3563878
The complaint
Mr H complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) has treated 
him unfairly in relation to a claim under his legal expenses insurance (LEI).
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr H holds LEI cover with DAS. He sought to make a claim under his policy in 
relation to a university course that he says he applied for but was denied as it failed 
to process his application.
DAS considered the claim and declined it. It said the course hadnt been paid for so 
there was no contract for the buying of goods or services. And that while the 
university was Mr Hs former employer, this claim wasnt related to his current or 
future employment.
Mr H had requested DAS provide the terms of appointment to his chosen solicitor 
which it had refused to do so. So, he brought his complaint to this Service. He said 
DAS was fettering his claim and asked for it to follow his instruction, and for 
compensation for the psychological and physical harm its actions had caused him.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
was satisfied the claim in question didnt fall within the scope of the contract dispute 
or employment dispute sections of the policy in the circumstances. In turn, she felt 
DAS had fairly declined to send the terms of engagement to Mr Hs chosen solicitor 
as it wouldnt be funding a claim or engaging with a solicitor on his behalf.
Mr H disagreed, saying there was a breach of contractual obligation from the 
university to process his application. And a separate breach related to an undertaking 
which automatically entitled him to access to courses. 
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I 
will only comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. 
That may mean I dont comment on everything Mr H has said but I have read and 
considered everything provided by all parties.
The crux of the dispute in this case concerns whether the facts of Mr Hs claim meet 
the terms of the LEI policy.
Under Contract disputes the policy states that it will:
cover the costs and expenses forYour or your familys legal rights in a 
contractual dispute arising from an agreement or an alleged agreement which 
you or your family has entered into forThe buying or hiring in of any goods or 
services; or the selling of any goods.
DAS has said Mr H did not pay for the course, so there was no cover. On its face, I 
think DAS has fairly declined the claim for this reason.
Mr H has provided wording from the universitys website that refers to the universitys 
obligations when handling an application and discussed this at length. Ive taken all 
of this into account, but even if I agreed with Mr H on these points it simply wouldnt 
change that Mr H hasnt paid for the course so does not meet the requirement of 
buying or hiring of any goods or services.  
Mr H has said the policy requirement to have made payment in the circumstances is 
an unfair and unenforceable term. So, in light of his comments, it seems most likely 
to me that no payment was made to the university. And while I take into account Mr 
Hs strong feeling on the matter, I dont consider DAS to have acted unfairly in the 
circumstances by relying on the policy wording.
Mr H has also referred to his former employment with the university from many years 
prior and requested DAS reconsider the claim under its employment dispute section 
in light of this. 
DAS considered this request and again declined the claim, saying the matter in 
question did not relate to a dispute relating to his contract of employment or future 
employment. 
Under Employment disputes the policy states that it will: 
cover the costs and expenses forA dispute relating to your contract of 
employment or future employment for your work as an employee.
Mr H has stated the actions of the university do relate to his employment going back 
to the 2000s. Taking into account all of the evidence provided by both parties, Im 
satisfied DAS has fairly and reasonably determined that the dispute about the failure 
to process the course application didnt relate to his contract of employment in line 
with the policy terms. So, it follows Im satisfied DAS has fairly declined this claim.
Ive also considered Mr Hs request for DAS to engage with his prospective or 
chosen solicitors. In light of its decision that there is no cover for this matter under the 
LEI policy, Im satisfied its decision to not engage with solicitors is a reasonable one.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman