DRN-3520828
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC tried to take payments from his bank 
account without his authority.
What happened
In 2015 AvantCredit provided Mr Y with a loan of £1,900. The loan was repayable over 60 
months and the monthly repayments were £67.65. 
Mr Y failed to keep up with the loan repayments and entered into a repayment plan with 
AvantCredit.
In January 2021 Mr Y called AvantCredit to update his contact information and details of his 
debit card. In February a loan repayment was returned. AvantCredit made four attempts in 
total to take payments using the debit card details it had been provided but each time the 
transaction was declined. 
Mr Y complained that AvantCredit had tried to take payments from his bank account without 
permission and had breached The Payment Services Regulations 2017. AvantCredit said it 
had acted in accordance with the loan agreement.
Mr Y complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ys 
complaint. He didnt think AvantCredit had done anything wrong. 
As Mr Y didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y has complained that AvantCredit breached The Payment Services Regulations. These 
state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. I have no power to 
determine whether or not AvantCredit has acted unlawfully or contrary to legislation, rules or 
regulations  only a court or the regulator can determine this. 
My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case taking 
account of the law and regulation in place at the time - as well as good industry practice. But 
Id like to assure Mr Y that Ive carefully thought about the points he has made when 
reaching my outcome.
Mr Y agreed to a continuous payment authority when he initially took out the loan in 2015. 
This is when the consumer gives a company the long card number across their debit or 
credit card and authorises it to take money out of their account regularly.
Before making the loan AvantCredit gave Mr Y some important information about how it 
would be repaid. It said:
3 Repayments
3.1 Repayments will be taken on the Due Date via the Debit Card you have nominated 
for this purpose or alternatively by Direct Debit where a valid mandate applies. We will 
only debit the Account for the amounts expressly set out in this Loan Agreement and 
on the date or dates as expressly set out in this Loan Agreement unless otherwise 
specifically agreed with you after the loan has been issued.
3.2 Where you opt to repay the amount of each instalment by Debit Card, if the first 
payment transaction attempt fails, we may make a further 2 attempts on the Payment 
Date by Debit Card using our continuous payment authority (CPA), for the full 
outstanding balance (the instalment amount due, together with any applicable 
charges imposed in accordance with this Loan Agreement). Where we cannot obtain 
the amount outstanding on the Payment Date, we will make immediate attempts on 
that day and the following days to contact you by phone, email and/or text message 
and find out why you have been unable to meet your repayment obligations. If you are 
suffering financial hardship, we will exercise forbearance in agreeing an alternative 
repayment plan. We urge you to contact us as soon as possible to explain any 
repayments difficulties and avoid incurring unnecessary default charges. If, however, 
following default on the loan:
(a)our reasonable attempts to contact you fail; or
(b)you unreasonably refuse to agree an alternative repayment plan; or
(c)you provide false information,
then as a last resort we may make subsequent attempts to debit your account using 
the Debit Card you have specifically nominated for this purpose. Thereafter, if we still 
cannot contact you or make alternative repayment arrangements, we may use CPA to 
make two additional attempts to recover the total amount outstanding on the next five 
(5) subsequent weekday working days thereafter, and one attempt on the sixth 
subsequent weekday working day. We may also use CPA to make two additional 
attempts to recover the total amount outstanding on the last three (3) weekday working 
days prior to the next scheduled instalment. We will not make more than seventeen 
(17) attempts during any thirty (30) day period following a missed scheduled Payment 
Date. This pattern will be repeated for each instalment. The number of attempts we 
have set out above are the maximum number of attempts we will make on the day or 
days set forth. We will not make attempts for alternative amounts, or on days other 
than those set forth above, unless we have specifically agreed to initiate these 
alternative attempts with you in advance.
It appears that AvantCredit tried unsuccessfully to collect an instalment of £67.65 on 
Monday 15 February 2021. Its notes indicate that it sent Mr Y a text message on that day 
regarding the failed payment. 
The loan agreement allowed it to make two additional attempts to recover the amount 
outstanding on the next five working days and one attempt on the sixth subsequent working 
day. I can see that AvantCredit did make a total of three further attempts on Tuesday 16 
February, Wednesday 17 February and Thursday 18 February 2021. 
According to its notes AvantCredit also tried to contact Mr Y by telephone on 16 and 18 
February without success. It sent him text messages on 17 and 18 February. Based on this Im satisfied that the attempts made by AvantCredit to collect the outstanding 
instalment were in accordance with the terms of the loan agreement that Mr Y had entered 
into. So I dont think AvantCredit has treated him unfairly or unreasonably in its attempts to 
recover the loan repayment that was due.
Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman