DRN-2866746
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the handling of a claim under his home emergency insurance 
policy with Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA).
What happened
In June 2020, Mr S made a claim on his home emergency policy as his boiler wasn't working 
properly. IPA sent out an engineer on 15 June 2020. The engineer said that the boiler 
needed a new plate heat exchanger and expansion vessel. The engineer attended again on 
18 June 2020 to fit the expansion vessel. He also tried to fit the plate heat exchanger but 
wasn't able to do so, as he said he needed to strip the bottom of the boiler out which would 
take a few more hours. The engineer said hed come back to do this when he had more 
time. Mr S says he was assured hed still have water and heating and left. However, when 
he checked after the engineer had left, he found that there was no water at all and the boiler 
wouldnt fire up. Mr S called the engineer back immediately and he returned and got the 
boiler working. Mr S says he told him that he had isolated the hot water but had restored the 
cold water supply. However, Mr S says although he now had cold water the heating was still 
not working but the engineer wouldnt answer his phone after that. 
Mr S says the next morning he found the boiler had flooded the kitchen. Mr S shut the water 
off and called IPA. Mr S said even after shutting off the water, the boiler was still leaking 
from underneath. Another engineer attended and said that because there was a mixer tap 
for the sink, there might be some feedback into the boiler. He left some 'puppy pads' to soak 
up the water and told Mr S not to use the mixer tap. The engineer turned the water back on 
from the main supply and said there may be a bit of residue and left. Mr S says that within an 
hour there was another severe leak, with water coming from the front and sides of the boiler 
and water was gushing through onto the top and inside the kitchen units. He says he 
switched off the water again and cleaned up the mess again. 
Mr S called IPA again; he had no water to use the toilet, wash, drink or cook. IPA offered 
alternative accommodation but Mr S said they would prefer to stay with family while waiting 
for the engineer to come back. The following day, when Mr S returned to the house, he says 
the kitchen had been flooded again. An engineer attended again five days later, on 24 June 
2020. The engineer said it would be necessary to take the boiler off the wall and cut a pipe 
out, which would make the boiler beyond economic repair. The engineer capped some pipes 
and left without repairing the boiler. 
Mr S contacted IPA again and said the boiler was still leaking and had flooded his kitchen 
again, causing damage to his kitchen worktop, cupboards and shelves, and some of the 
contents of the cupboards. 
Mr S is very unhappy with the handling of the claim and says IPA has caused the additional 
problems with the boiler and it was not beyond repair until after IPAs engineers worked on it. 
Mr S arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the boiler and he has now had the 
boiler replaced. Mr Ss engineer said the boiler hadnt been drained down during the repair 
and this meant water leaked from the open central heating pipes. The report concluded that 
IPA's engineer had caused damage to the boiler.
Mr S has made a number of points in support of his complaint, which Ive summarized 
below: 
He and his family (wife and two children) couldnt stay in the house with no running 
water or heating so they had to break lockdown rules and stay with family members.
The leaks meant water had got into the electrics and so he had to turn of the 
electricity as well as the mains water supply. 
The boiler continued leaking, even after he turned the water off. 
Because the boiler was leaking, water was continuously escaping via the overflow 
pipe, which had caused water damage to the wall and fence outside. 
His engineer said the leaks were due to the pipes not being capped off originally so it 
was not due to the mixer tap but was mains supply water. He re-routed some pipes 
and capped off all the hot water pipes. 
This was supposedly a simple repair but IPA caused considerable damage.  
He has had to make numerous calls about this, some lasting over 40 minutes; and 
some representatives have hung up on him. 
Now his kitchen worktop and shelving units need to be replaced; various kitchen 
appliances were water damaged; and electrics were left in a dangerous state.
IPA removed the flue and cemented it back in badly, causing damage to the  
brickwork inside and outside the house. 
Mr S has told us that the fence has now dried out and he has filled in the wall, but it is 
waiting to be painted. Mr S wants the cost of putting right the damage to his home and the 
cost of the new boiler.  
IPA said the boiler was 15-20 years old and was beyond economic repair. It offered £250 
towards a new boiler but said it could not repair it under the terms of the policy. IPA arranged 
for its own claims validation contractor to inspect Mr Ss boiler and kitchen. Following this 
IPA agreed that the engineer had caused some damage to Mr Ss home but said it was not 
all the result of leaks from the boiler. IPA said some of the damage was normal wear and 
tear and some was due to the fact the boiler is above the sink and so it an area that would 
get water damage anyway. IPA said that due to the age of the kitchen, it would pay 25% 
towards the repair of the kitchen, which it said amounted to £397.41. IPA also said the 
overflow pipe was positioned too near the wall, which is why it caused damage to the wall. 
IPA says it is not responsible for this. IPA offered a total of £300 compensation, £250 
contribution towards the new boiler and £397.41 towards the damage to Mr Ss property. It 
suggested Mr S make a home insurance claim for the other damage. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt agree it was reasonable to expect 
Mr S to claim under his home insurance for damage caused by IPA. He was satisfied Mr S 
had established, the leak was caused because of something IPA's engineers did and so IPA 
should put this right. The investigator said IPA should make a cash settlement of £3,205.71 
(which is what its claims validation report had said the cost would be) in the absence of any 
other evidence about the cost of the kitchen repairs. He also recommended that IPA should 
pay what its report says the external repairs would cost (i.e. £278.63), as this would not have 
happened, if the boiler had not been leaking. The investigator wasnt satisfied there was 
enough evidence all the appliances and kitchen cupboard contents were unusable but he 
would reconsider this if Mr S was able to provide more evidence. 
With regard to the boiler, the investigator concluded that, even if the boiler had not been 
damaged by IPA, the repairs required would have been more than the policy limit of £250; 
and there was a good chance it would not have been reparable. He was therefore satisfied 
the £250 contribution towards the new boiler is not unreasonable. The investigator also thought IPA should pay an additional £100 compensation, in addition to the £300 already 
offered. The investigator therefore recommended a total payment to Mr S of £1,047.41
IPA did not accept the investigators assessment. It made a number of points in response, 
which Ive summarised below:
Its engineers report said the boiler had been leaking for some time when it first 
attended on 15 June 2020, and customer was advised to turn off supply to boiler to 
prevent further damage however this was refused. 
The engineer did cause damage to another component while attempting to change a 
part. This part itself is still available but it doesnt change the fact that the bigger fault 
of needing a hole in the case to remove the faulty plate heat exchanger would render 
the boiler Immediately dangerous and therefore capped off.
The engineers report states that the cold water was capped to the boiler and the 
boiler drained. 
The engineer also states that the proper at risk process was followed and the boiler 
was isolated from the electrical supply.
Its claims validation report does not draw conclusions only explains that the leak was 
caused by an escape of water. 
It offered 25% of the cost of the kitchen repairs, as a gesture of goodwill as it doesnt 
agree that all the damage was as result of its errors. The water damage inside the 
cupboards could not have been caused from one episode of water leaking, more 
likely it was caused by the proximity of the sink to the joints on the kitchen units. 
The damage to the wall and floor outside was a direct result of the failure of the 
expansion vessel and subsequent water leaking outside. This would be a normal 
consequence of this component failure. The damage to the wall around the flue is a 
normal consequence of removing and refitting the flue to carry out required work.
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
In the meantime, Mr S told the investigator that the fence has now dried out and he has filled 
in the wall, it is just waiting for paint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Leaks
Mr S reported several leaks from his boiler over a period of well over a week. Mr Ss 
engineers report says: 
I found the boiler in a partly stripped condition with open pipes on the central heating 
system at the boiler. As the system had not been drained during the repair, open central 
heating pipes were the source of repeated leaks. Water was leaking under gravity pressure 
with enough force to fill the electronics box and other electrical parts in the boiler, causing 
damage to parts due to the mains power being left on at the boiler mains isolation. While 
trying to remove the pipes for the plate heat exchanger, the previous engineer had used a 
blowtorch, burning the main frame and the wall behind. Damage was also seen to the plastic 
condensate trap and melting the domestic hot water sensor connector. The pipe was also 
bent and damaged, preventing parts being able to be connected. The boiler still requires the 
original repair of a replacement heat exchanger.IPA has said its engineer did isolate the boiler and drained it down but also said Mr S 
refused to let him isolate it. Mr S has said he asked that his heating and hot water be left on 
but if there was a risk of a leak, the engineer should have advised on this. And in any event, 
the boiler leaked several times after this first visit. IPA seems to accept that some of the 
leaks were due to errors on its part. Overall, I am satisfied the leaks happened as Mr S has 
stated and could have been avoided had IPA isolated the boiler properly. 
Damage to kitchen 
Although it has accepted it did cause some damage to the boiler and some of the leaks, IPA 
doesnt accept that this is the cause of all the damage to Mr Ss kitchen. 
IPAs validation report says the damage is consistent with being the result of damage 
caused by a volume of water and consists mainly of delamination of the corner base unit 
carcass. It said they cant say how the water leaks were caused and also noted that they 
couldnt see any water damage to the rear of the kitchen corner carcass which is 
immediately below the boiler (which it implies it would have expected) and also says it 
cannot rule out water flooding the worktops and penetrating around the sink unit to have 
caused the delamination. I take this to mean, it cannot rule out that the water damage was 
caused by splashing from the sink but also that the flooding from the boiler might also have 
entered the cupboard below by the edges of the sink. IPA says one incident of flooding could 
not have caused the damage inside the cupboards.
Of course it is difficult to be certain how the damage was caused. However, having 
considered all the available evidence, I consider it more likely than not it was caused by the 
leaks from the boiler. There was not just one incident of flooding, there were apparently 
three after IPA started working on the boiler; and the first that Mr S reported had apparently 
started during the night and was not noticed until the next morning, so the water would have 
been sitting for some time.
Mr S has provided several photographs which show water dripping from the boiler and a 
large volume of water pooled inside the cupboards. The photographs also show water 
damage to the front edge of the cupboard shelves. There is no corresponding damage 
visible at the back of the cupboards, as noted by the claims validators. However, I do not 
think this means the damage to the front cant have been caused by the boiler leaks. 
The report says it cant rule out water damage as a result of normal use of the sink but the 
report says no more than this. It does not say that this is the more likely cause of this 
damage. And although the first job sheet refers to the boiler having leaked prior to this claim, 
there is no suggestion that any such leak had come out of the boiler and caused damage to 
the kitchen.
Overall, I am satisfied that it is more likely than not the leaks from the boiler (from 15 June 
2020 onwards) caused the damage to the kitchen. IPAs claims validators said the cost of 
putting this right would be £3,205.71. Mr S has not provided any evidence that the scope of 
works or this estimate is not reasonable. I therefore consider IPA should pay this amount to 
Mr S to arrange the repairs himself.  
Replacement boiler 
I agree with the investigator that, even if nothing had gone wrong, the policy wouldnt have 
covered a new boiler or the entire repair, as even if the boiler was repairable, the policy. 
would only have covered repairs up to a cost of £250. Therefore Mr S would have had to pay 
towards the repairs, as they were estimated to exceed this limit. There is also a possible that 
the boiler might have needed more repairs than initially assessed, given its age. Overall, there is not enough evidence the new boiler was required solely or primarily because of 
IPAs errors. I therefore agree that the £250 contribution already offered is reasonable.   
External damage 
IPA initially said the damage to the wall was because the overflow pipe was too near the 
wall. However, it later accepted its engineer had taken out this flue and put it back in with 
some cement. The claims validators also said the external damage is consistent with a 
constant overflow from the boiler and that the brickwork was damaged whilst flue was being 
replaced. The work Mr S has said is required has been confirmed by IPAs claims validators 
and it says will cost £278.63. I agree IPA should pay this amount.
Service provided and delays
In addition to causing the leaks, which damaged Mr Ss kitchen, there appear to have been 
several delays in attending. Ive seen no explanation why there was a period of three days 
between the first two visits and then a further six day wait before the third visit. For much of 
this time, Mr S was without heating and hot water and for some periods, without any running 
water. He and his family had to move out at one point. There were a number of failings in the 
service provided and a seeming lack of urgency in properly resolving the problems with the 
boiler. This together with the trouble caused to Mr S in having to deal with the repeated leaks 
and damage to his kitchen, means that some compensation is appropriate, over and above 
putting right the damage caused. I consider that a total sum of £500 is appropriate (to 
include the £300 already offered).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Inter Partner Assistance SA to do the following:
1. pay £250 towards the new boiler, if it hasnt already done so;
2. pay £3,205.71 for the cost of repairing the damage to the kitchen, less any payment 
already made in respect of these costs; 
3. pay £278.63 for the repairs to the external wall; and
3. pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of the 
claim. (For the avoidance of doubt, this is to include the £300 IPA already offered. So if IPA 
has already paid this, it only needs to pay the balance of £200.)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman