DRN-4513754
The complaint
Mr P complains Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) closed his credit card 
account without explanation. And that Creation didnt refund its annual fee, accrued reward 
points, and a free overnights stay voucher for an affiliated third-party business.
Mr P says Creation should pay him compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused.
What happened
When using his Creation card and account, Mr P would earn points - in line with the terms of 
the account - for a third-party organisation (H) who provide hotel services. These reward 
points would be transferred to Mr Ps account with H by Creation.
In September 2021, Creation informed Mr P it had decided to close his account on 
3 December 2021. Unhappy with this, Mr P complained. Creation sent Mr P its final 
response in January 2022. It didnt uphold his complaint, and in short made the following key 
points:
- Under the terms and conditions of the account, Creation can close it by giving Mr P 
two months notice. And the terms also say it can add or remove any services and 
benefits at any time, and without notice
- The £99 annual fee applied on 21 April 2021 will not be refunded
- Points ceased being transferred to H after notification of the account closure was 
issued to Mr P
- Free night stay certificates will no longer be issued. As the account closed on 
3 December 2021, Creation will no longer be honouring the associated rewards 
benefits
Unhappy with Creations response, Mr P referred his complaint to this service.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. After several attempts, as they were 
unable to get the information they needed from Creation, they sent both parties their view on 
the complaint. Because they had limited information, they recommended the complaint is 
upheld. And Creation should refund the annual fee on a pro-rata basis, arrange for Mr P to 
get his accrued points, and get his overnight stay voucher for his H account.
Mr P didnt agree and felt Creation should do more to put things right. Another of our 
Investigators then looked into Mr Ps complaint. At that point Creation made Mr P an offer to 
resolve his complaint, this was:
Refund the unused proportion of the account fees on a pro-rata basis
Transfer the outstanding H reward points to his account
Grant the overnight vouchers if Mr P was eligible
Mr P did not agree as he felt Creation should also pay him either £250 or 50,000 H reward 
points as compensation for the inconvenience and distress it caused him.
Mr P later informed this service he had received the free night certificate and reward points 
had been applied to his H account. But the points, according to his calculations, fell short by 
just over 2,000 points. He also pointed out that he hadnt yet received his pro-rata refund of 
the annual fee.
Creation provided this service with information required to look into the complaint. Our 
Investigator then sent Mr P their findings on his complaint. In summary, they found:
- In line with the terms and conditions of the account, Creation is entitled to make 
commercial decisions and close accounts, and it doesnt need to give a reason for 
this. Creation acted in line with its regulatory obligations, and the terms of the 
account, when closing it
- Creation is entitled to withdraw benefits at any point in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account  something Mr P agreed to when opening it
- Creations offer to refund the annual fee on a pro-rata basis, award the accrued 
points, and free overnight stay voucher is fair
- The 17,217 reward points its transferred to Mr Ps H account represents what was 
accrued as per his closing statement during the notice period of October 2021 till 
December 2021
- Creation should pay Mr P £50 due to its lack of communication and delays and the 
distress and inconvenience this caused him
Mr P felt £50 wasnt enough compensation for the inconvenience and stress he suffered. 
Mr P also said, and reiterated, that the reward points he was sent fell short by 2,172 as his H 
app showed he had accrued 19,388 points.
Creation also didnt agree. It did not agree to pay Mr P £50 compensation  as what it had 
offered, and done so far, was compensation enough.
As neither party agreed, this complaint was passed to me to decide. I then sent both parties 
my provisional decision and set a deadline for them to make further comments and submit 
evidence. For ease of reference, here is what I said: 
Provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Creation has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of 
detail with Mr P, but Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
Having done so, Im planning on upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why.Account closure 
I understand Mr P is unhappy Creation closed his account. Creation can only close accounts 
in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and conditions of the account. Creation has 
relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Ps account. Ive reviewed the terms and 
they explain Creation can close an account for any reason by giving 60 days notice.
Having looked at all the information available to me, including Creations actions and the 
information its provided, Im satisfied Creations decision to close Mr Ps account was 
reached legitimately and fairly.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and circumstances of this complaint, and Im satisfied 
Creation acted in line with them, so, it was entitled to close the account as it has already 
done. Creation have provided Mr P with the full notice period, so I cant say Creation have 
acted unfairly in taking the actions it did. Ive considered whether Creation need to offer any 
compensation regarding the closure. But from what Ive seen the decision to close was 
reasonable.
Mr P has said he wants an explanation of why Creations took the actions it did. But Im not 
aware of any obligation that Creation is under to do so.
Annual fee, overnight stay voucher and reward points
Mr P accepts that a pro-rata refund of his annual fee, and provision of the overnight stay 
voucher he had realised before the notice of closure, was fair redress. As I understand it, 
Mr P has received both from Creation.
That brings me onto one of the two key points of Mr Ps complaint. That is Creation hasnt 
transferred the correct number of reward points he had accrued before the account was 
closed.
Creation have given me the statements of the account leading up to when it was closed. Its 
also given me technical information to show what points were accrued during this period. 
These records show me what H points Mr P had accrued from September 2021 up until 
December 2021.
Creation explains that where there are refunds on transactions, those points are deducted. 
Having looked at the statements closely, and the technical records, Im satisfied Mr P 
accrued 17,576 reward points during that period. Im also satisfied that any points accrued 
prior to this point were already transferred to Mr Ps H account.
Mr P has sent in a screenshot he says shows that the last time he logged in to his Creation 
account he had 19,388 points. But this screenshot of Mr Ps Creation account is undated, 
and it wouldve been done at a point in time for which I dont know if he had any refunds on 
transactions or spent any points. But, as Ive said, from what Ive seen Creation should have 
sent Mr P 17,576 points.
Our Investigator put it to Creation that its transfer of 17,217 points fell short. Creation agrees 
that it has made an error. Because of this it will send Mr P a further 360 points to put things 
right. But it only needs to send Mr P 359 points as this is the shortfall based on what its 
already given him against 17,576 points.
But having said that, Mr P has sent me a screenshot which shows he was transferred 12,736 
points to his H account on 5 April 2023. And 4,840 points on 3 April 2023. This amounts to 
17,576.Its not clear where this discrepancy has come from. So I think, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, Creation doesnt need to send Mr P any further reward points into his H account. 
Should Mr P show, and provide compelling evidence, that he received less than 17,576 
points, Id be satisfied Creation should give him any shortfall.
Distress and Inconvenience
Mr P feels he should be paid £250 or 50,000 H reward points for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered because of Creations actions.
Firstly, Creation does not need to pay any such compensation for closing the account in the 
way it did. Thats because, as Ive already said, it did nothing wrong here. Our Investigator 
felt that Creation caused delays and its communication couldve been better.
I do accept Creation couldve communicated better at times and acted in a timelier way. So I 
think £50 is fair compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right, Creation Financial Services Limited should:
-Pay Mr P £50 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered
-Send a further 359 reward points to Mr Ps H account if hes able to show he was 
sent less than 17,576 H reward points
The deadline I set for further submissions has now passed. Creation agreed with what I said 
I was planning to decide. Mr P also said he agreed, but made further points: 
To his knowledge, he has yet to receive the pro-rata refund for his annual fee 
He reluctantly accepts he will not receive further H reward points 
Its now academic as he has been awarded his free night voucher. He had 
already hit the spending target to be awarded the voucher at the time his account 
was closed. But Creation refused to send him the voucher for two years, even 
though he had qualified 
I will now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons contained in my provisional decision  as above  I 
have decided to uphold this complaint in part. 
Mr P says he doesnt think hes received his pro-rata refund. From the information Ive seen I 
was satisfied he had. But for the sake of completeness, and to ensure a fair settlement is 
reached on this complaint, I will direct Creation to send evidence to Mr P that it has  and if 
not, to refund Mr P the fee on a pro-rata basis.
Mr P previously accepted the provision of a free night voucher from H was fair redress. He 
now says he shouldve received two vouchers for two years worth of reward accumulation. I havent seen anything to suggest this is the case, and I question why he has only just raised 
this now. Having considered this point, and considering such vouchers are typically provided 
when they are earnt through the scheme in the corresponding year, I make no further award. 
As Mr P has not shown he was sent less than 17,576 H reward points, and as he accepts, 
albeit reluctantly, I make no direction for Creation to award him any more reward points.     
Putting things right
To put things right, Creation must: 
- Pay Mr P £50 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered
- Show Mr P he has received his pro-rata refund of the annual fee. If Creation hasnt 
done so, it must now refund the annual fee on a pro-rata basis to when the account 
was closed 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Creation Financial Services Limited 
must now put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman