DRN-3588284
The complaint
Mrs B complains about items she pledged with Harvey & Thompson Limited and that the 
items have been sold prematurely. The items have great sentimental value to Mrs B and she 
is upset that the items will not now be returned to her.
What happened
Mrs B borrowed money from Harvey & Thompson Limited and used several pieces of 
jewellery as pledges against the amounts borrowed. Two separate credit agreements were 
in place and Mrs B pledged a bracelet and two bangles against them. Provided Mrs B repaid 
the required amounts within the specified timescales the items of jewellery should be 
returned to Mrs B. Alternatively, if Mrs B did not make the required repayments on time there 
was a risk the items would be sold and the values used against what was still owed. 
There seems to be little or no dispute that the items were sold in error by Harvey & 
Thompson Limited, or its agent, and this was through no fault of Mrs B. Mrs B says the items 
were of great sentimental value as they were gifts to her children when they were born and 
she is, understandably, upset as these have been sold and cannot therefore be returned to 
her. 
One of our investigators considered Mrs Bs complaint and explained that Harvey & 
Thompson Limited appears to now accept it sold the items prematurely and that it should 
compensate Mrs B for this. The investigator explained that having considered Harvey & 
Thompson Limiteds initial offer of redress, she did not think this was sufficient. She 
recommended Mrs B be paid a total of £2,828.58, which was made up from £762.94 as a 
return of the repayments Mrs B had made, £408.45 for the renewal amounts paid and 
£1,657.19 as compensation for the value of the items. 
Harvey & Thompson Limited accepted the investigators findings but Mrs B did not. Mrs B 
explained, in summary, she did not feel the amount of compensation was enough 
considering the sentimental value of the items.
As the complaint could not be resolved informally it has been referred to me for 
consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I feel my decision will come as further disappointment to Mrs B as I have 
come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
In its dealings with Mrs B Harvey & Thompson Limited was acting as a pawnbroker. 
Pawnbroking is a regulated activity and as such our service is usually able consider 
complaints like Mrs Bs. Mrs B is unhappy that the items she pledged, against the amounts 
she borrowed, have been sold by Harvey & Thompson Limited and she is no longer able to 
get the items back. The items were of great sentimental value and this has caused Mrs B 
some considerable upset. 
Harvey & Thompson Limited appears to accept that the items were sold incorrectly and that 
they should not have been sold when they were. But as the items have been sold, they 
cannot now be recovered and what remains in dispute is what should be done to 
compensate Mrs B for this. 
Ive noted the amounts the items were sold at auction for and this does give an indication of 
their potential value. Harvey & Thompson Limited has calculated the value of the items and 
this is based on the weight and quality (i.e. carats) of the items. Mrs B has been unable to 
provide any supporting evidence demonstrating what equivalent replacement items would 
cost, either pre-owned or commissioned new. In the absence of any further supporting 
documentary evidence indicating an alternative value, excluding sentimental value which I 
will come on to shortly, or cost of replacement items would be, I dont consider there to be 
grounds to instruct Harvey & Thompson Limited to increase this element of compensation. 
This aspect of the compensation has been calculated on a widely accepted price per gram 
and the associated weight of each item. This does not seem unreasonable in my view in the 
circumstances here. 
The sentimental value of these items is of course something that is much more difficult to 
determine. I do not doubt that these items no longer being available will be upsetting for Mrs 
B. But having considered what Harvey & Thompson Limited has now agreed to pay to settle 
Mrs Bs complaint Im satisfied this is a reasonable amount. 
Harvey & Thompson Limited has agreed to pay £2,828.58 to reflect the loss of the items and 
any distress or inconvenience caused. Based upon the evidence that has been presented in 
this case and in the absence of anything further to indicate the actual replacement item 
costs, Im satisfied this payment is reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs s complaint. It 
reimburses Mrs B for the amounts she paid to the loans, effectively given her an interest free 
loan, and pays an additional sum to reflect the estimated cost of the items and 
inconvenience caused.  
Mrs B has also referred to the impact on her credit file as she did make the required 
repayments, albeit not then having the items returned to her. Had the items still been 
available to return to Mrs B she would have been required to make the payments in any 
event. While I appreciate having not received the items back is still upsetting and 
unfortunate, I dont however consider it has had a greater detrimental impact on Mrs Bs 
credit file. 
Putting things right
In full and final settlement of Mrs Bs complaint Harvey & Thompson Limited should pay Mrs 
B £2,828.58. Payment should be made within 28 days of Mrs B accepting this final decision. 
If payment is made later, interest at 8% simple per year should be added to this amount from 
the date of this decision until the date of settlement.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Harvey & Thompson Limited to 
settle the complaint in accordance with what I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022. 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman