DRN-1950656
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with their property insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited in relation to a claim they made to it when a leak occurred at their home.
What happened
There was a leak at Mr and Mrs Ds home in June 2019. Most of the rooms of the property 
were affected. A claim was made to Lloyds and it sent a drying contractor and electrician to 
the home. The cooker was isolated. Some ceilings came down. A personal claims consultant 
and a contractor visited the home to assess the water damage. 
A scope was completed but Mr and Mrs D challenged this straightaway as it didnt include 
things like replacing the ceilings. Certain recommendations for strip-out works had been 
made and these werent completed until September 2019. Shortly after the property was 
declared to be dry. Mr and Mrs D were still challenging the scope of works at this time but 
Lloyds wouldnt amend or add to it further and paid a settlement to them based on that 
scope of £11,396.82.
In October Lloyds issued a final response. It said the scope and settlement were correct but 
Lloyds didnt specifically deal with any of the concerns Mr and Mrs D had raised about the 
content of the scope  such as the ceilings. Regarding the family having been left to live at 
the property, Lloyds said the home had not been uninhabitable but it would pay for the family 
to eat out as there were no food delivery services in the area. Lloyds accepted it hadnt 
communicated well and offered £50 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs D complained to us but challenged Lloyds further as well. Lloyds accepted its 
scope (and, therefore settlement) was flawed. It agreed to consider revised quotes from 
Mr and Mrs D and to also have its contractor complete a further scope. Meanwhile it made 
settlements for other claim items, such as the cooker. 
In January Lloyds settled with Mr and Mrs D for the building repairs at the full cost of one of 
the quotes they had provided (£27,444). Mr and Mrs D confirmed they were now happy that 
the claim had been reasonably settled. But that they remained unhappy about how long this 
had taken and that they hadnt been offered alternative accommodation.  
Our investigator felt that Lloyds had handled the claim badly and that £1,000 compensation 
should be paid. Mr and Mrs D felt this wasnt enough. Lloyds then reviewed its position and 
said it would like to increase its offer of compensation to £2,200. Our investigator put this 
offer to Mr and Mrs D. They said they felt it was still insufficient  they noted that if Lloyds 
had provided them with somewhere else to live this would likely have cost it £1,000 a week. 
The complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not minded to make Lloyds pay more than the revised amount it offered 
of £2,200. I know Mr and Mrs D dont think this is enough but we dont make insurers pay 
compensation at the rate of any savings made due to poor claim handling. Nor do we make 
awards which are designed to make the insurer act differently in the future, or that are based 
on an hourly rate set against the time the policyholder has spent dealing with the claim. 
Those would all equate to punitive awards whereas our awards are designed to make up for 
the distress and inconvenience suffered because of the insurers failings in handling the 
claim.
Its clear to me that an extensive leak occurred here, causing a lot of damage to most of the 
property. This was never going to be an easy or straightforward claim. So its likely that 
some distress and inconvenience would always have been suffered by Mr and Mrs D.  
It is also clear to me, however, that Lloyds handled this poorly from the outset. Major areas 
of repair were missed form the scope and even though Mr and Mrs D obtained a surveyors 
report in July 2019, Lloyds wouldnt accept this was the case. Some further stripping out 
occurred in September, and whilst Lloyds said it was then revising its scope, the further 
scope sent to Mr and Mrs D had the original date on it, none of the missing areas had been 
included and reinstating the further strip out works had not been accounted for. Despite the 
various evidence and countless emails Mr and Mrs D provided on this topic, Lloyds still went 
so far as to issue a final response validating its scope, before finally/eventually conceding it 
was flawed. I accept that Mr and Mrs D worked far harder and for much longer to obtain a 
fair and reasonable settlement than they should ever have had to have done. I completely 
understand how frustrated they became.
Lloyds has always disputed that the home wasnt habitable. I know Mr and Mrs D have 
considered things like guidelines which exist in respect of rented properties which define 
habitability. But that isnt the criteria generally applied in property insurance claims. 
Generally for the home to be unhabitable in respect of insurance claims the damage caused 
by the insured event has to have left the home without its usual, crucial facilities, such as 
heating, hot water, power and sanitation. An inability to cook will not usually, by itself, mean 
the home is uninhabitable. Nor will the fact it is uncomfortable to live there either because 
drying is on-going or the living space has been compromised in some way.
Its also important to note that, particularly where rural locations are concerned, it isnt 
always possible for suitable alternative accommodation to be found. Whilst I understand that 
Mr and Mrs D have said theyd like to have moved out, its by no means clear to me that this 
would most likely have been achieved, even if Lloyds had accepted the home was 
uninhabitable. That said Lloyds accepts that it misled Mr and Mrs D regarding provision of a 
temporary kitchen  and I think that is regrettable as providing something like that would 
have really assisted them in the circumstances. Lloyds could and should have done more for 
Mr and Mrs D whilst it was drying the property and prevaricating over the claim settlement. If 
it had a lot of their distress and inconvenience would have been avoided. 
Lloyds has accepted its communication was poor. From the detail I have seen I think it was. 
Even when contact was made in good order, key evidence which Mr and Mrs D had taken 
the time to explain as well as provide was either overlooked or misunderstood (meaning its 
relevance was overlooked). I fully accept this was exceedingly frustrating for them. 
Especially when the responses from Lloyds often included insinuations that they were trying 
to gain from the claim.
Having considered everything, as I said at the outset, Im satisfied that Lloyds failed 
Mr and Mrs D with its handling of their claim. I accept they suffered significant distress and inconvenience as a result which would have been avoided if Lloyds had handled things 
appropriately. But I bear in mind that, since our involvement, Lloyds has offered, what 
I consider to be (bearing in mind the types of awards this service makes in similar cases), a 
substantial sum in compensation. Albeit it late in the day, I see this as Lloyds recognising 
and accepting that it drastically failed Mr and Mrs D on this occasion. 
Putting things right
Having taken everything into account I think Lloyds offer of £2,200 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I, therefore, require Lloyds to pay this to Mr and Mrs D (but if its paid the £50 
previously offered already it will now only have to pay the difference outstanding).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to provide the 
redress set out above in my section entitled putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman