DRN-1631639
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that money he deposited in his Barclays Bank UK Plc current account was 
not credited to his account.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr S visited a branch of Barclays. He told the cashier he wanted to deposit 
£800 in his bank account. He handed over the money in cash at the counter. 
Mr S then left the branch and, later the same day, checked his balance as he wanted to 
make an online banking transfer. He noticed that only £400 had been credited to his 
account. He phoned the bank helpline and was told to go back to the branch the next day.
When Mr S went back to the branch the following day, Barclays said it would investigate and 
contact him with the outcome. Later that day, Barclays told Mr S it had completed an 
investigation that showed he had only deposited £400.
Mr S complained to this service. He said he had deposited £800. He wanted the missing 
£400 to be deposited in his account and to be compensated. Our investigator did not uphold 
the complaint. She said that there was no evidence that Mr S had deposited the additional 
£400 in his account.
As Mr S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the records that Barclays has provided to show what happened in the 
branch the day Mr S deposited his money. A report from the branch said that it totalled the 
tills at the end of the day that Mr S deposited his money and again the next morning. The till 
agreement book for that day showed there was a discrepancy in the amount of money 
deposited when compared to what was in the tills. The discrepancy was a much smaller 
amount of money.
Branch staff said that Mr S asked to deposit £400. He handed over £380 and the cashier 
then had to ask him for the other £20, which he then handed to her. Mr S said that he 
handed over £780 initially and then had to give the cashier an additional £20. I am therefore 
satisfied that the similarity in their accounts means that that they are both recalling the same 
transaction. However, I am unable to account for the difference in recollection of how much 
was deposited.
Barclays has explained the process for depositing money at the counter. It said that the 
cashier would have processed the credit for £400 and then input the breakdown of cash into 
the system, both of which would need to match. If the amounts didnt match, the cashier 
would have had to cancel the entry and re-input it once the breakdown had been agreed with 
the customer.Mr S said that the money he was depositing was from some work he had done but, due to 
the nature of the work, he wasnt able to provide further evidence of the amount of money. 
Mr S said he was going to send the money abroad and, because of that, was certain of how 
much he had deposited. Mr S also said that CCTV in the branch would prove how much he 
deposited. However, I should note that Barclays has confirmed that there is no CCTV 
available of the incident.
Thinking about all of the above, Im satisfied that the Barclays had a record of how much 
was in the tills the day that Mr S paid in the money. Im also satisfied that Barclays 
considered whether the discrepancy in the amount in the tills was Mr Ss money and that, 
given the much smaller amount of money in the discrepancy, it was reasonable for it to 
conclude that it wasnt Mr Ss. Im also satisfied that the process for depositing money at the 
counter would make it difficult for a different amount of money to be deposited than was 
input into the system. Im also aware that Mr S says he is certain about how much he paid 
into his account but, unfortunately, is unable to provide evidence that shows the amount paid 
in. On that basis, and looking at the evidence as a whole, I think it is more likely than not that 
Mr S paid £400, not £800, into his bank account. As a result, Barclays doesnt need to do 
anything further. 
I am sure that this must be a distressing and concerning incident for Mr S but after careful 
consideration, I think it is the right decision in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman